ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question report on Thursday 24 November 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 195/11-11-2016 topical question by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance about the removal of obstacles to the exploitation of the former Greek airport. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 204/14-11-2016 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance regarding the transfer of the services of the Ministry of Finance to the Kerani building. 3. The 182/7-11-2016 topical question by Congressman I Thessaloniki of the Association of Centroon Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Finance on the management of the red loans of the former ATEbank, in an unfair manner for its debtors. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 3/3-10-2016 of the Second Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, New Democracy, Nikita Kaklamani, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the revision of the country's deficit data for the period 1995-2013 by EUROSTAT. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 31/3-10-2016 question by the Independent MEP Lakonias Leonida Gregorakos to the Minister of Finance about the compensation of shareholders of cooperative banks. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: "Incorporation into Greek legislation of Directive 2014/94/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2014 on the development of alternative fuel infrastructures, simplification of the licensing procedure and other provisions of fuel and energy service stations and other provisions". The Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice also submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: ‘Integration of Directive 2000/43/EC on the application of the principle of equal treatment of persons irrespective of racial or ethnic origin, Directive 2000/78/EC on the establishment of a general framework for equal treatment in employment and work and Directive 2014/54/EU on measures to facilitate the exercise of the rights of workers in the context of the free movement of workers, II) necessary measures to comply with Articles 22, 23, 30, 31 para. 1,32 and 34 of Regulation No 596/2014 on market abuse and repealing Directive 2003/6/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and Commission Directives 2003/124/EC, 2003/125/EC and 2004/72/EC and incorporating Directive 2014/57/EU on criminal sanctions for market abuse and Implementing Directive 2015/2392, III) incorporation of Directive 2014/62 on the protection of the euro and other currencies against counterfeiting by means of criminal law, and replacing Council Framework Decision 2000/383/JHA and IV) Recommendation of the National Obligation Investigation Mechanism in the security bodies and employees of detention centres." George Kyritsis, MP in Athens, seeks permission to leave abroad on Monday, November 28, 2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only a discussion and a vote on the principle of Articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘ Harmonise legislation by Directive 2014/17/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 February 2014 on credit agreements for consumers for residential immovable property and amending Directive 2008/48/EC and other provisions of the Ministry of Finance’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 18 November 2016 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting on principle and on articles. Mr Christos Antoniou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u3	How many minutes, Mr. President, if you'll excuse me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u4	It is 15 minutes, Mr Antoniou, for the protology of the rapporteurs and seven and a half minutes for the denology. We'll find the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, is the debate also on the articles?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u6	It's a single meeting. It is a meeting, as decided in the Conference of Presidents, in principle, on the articles and the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u7	Are we gonna have a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u8	Sure. There's got to be a dentist. Mr. Antoniou, you can start.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law incorporates Directive 2014/17/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 February 2014 on consumer credit contracts for immovable property. The adoption of this draft law ensures the orderly functioning of mortgage markets, strengthens consumer protection and financial stability. Appropriations for loans for immovable property intended for residence are a long-term commitment with a high level of debt. It is therefore important to have a legislative framework for establishing specific rules on transparency and credit risk management, thereby strengthening financial stability and a high level of consumer protection. The main objectives and the most important results of the arrangement are as follows: Firstly, it ensures a documented choice of the consumer by providing personalised information through the standard European information document, which in addition allows for a better comparison of the terms of mortgage loans by different providers. Secondly, the risk of overcompensation of consumers - borrowers by carrying out a thorough assessment of the consumer's creditworthiness by the creditor prior to the provision of the binding offer is limited. Thirdly, substantial trade rights are guaranteed and regulated for the consumer, such as the right to a study period and the right to early repayment of the credit agreement. Fourthly, it ensures strengthening the quality of the services provided by introducing rules of professional conduct for the staff of creditors and requirements of professional competence. Fifthly, consumer financial education is encouraged. Sixth, the approval of consumers - borrowers at foreign exchange risk throughout the entire duration of the contract is limited, since the contract is in a foreign currency. Seventh, a proper property assessment is ensured by introducing the obligation to carry out assessments with reliable standards of assessment by certified valuers. Eighth, the authorisation and supervision of real estate credits shall be guaranteed. Consumers - borrowers who conclude credit agreements with credit institutions for property acquisition, intended for residence, benefit from the adoption of rules for which a high level of protection is ensured through the provision of personalised pre-contractual information in structured form of non-advertising advertising, as well as the existence of specific warnings before and during the contract. Credit institutions must at all times have available general information, provide personalised information to the consumer, meet certain specifications when providing consultancy services, ensure an appropriate level of knowledge and competence of their staff, calculate, with a specific mathematical formula, the total annual actual charge rate, as well as calculate the compensation they receive due to any early repayment of the credit agreement, in accordance with that formula, as described in Annex 3 to the proposed draft law. Household brokers will be authorised by the competent authority, Bank of Greece, and should meet specific professional requirements when providing credit intermediation services on their behalf. I shall briefly describe the main articles of the draft legislation in question. Article 6 sets out professional behavioural obligations in the provision of credit to consumers and provides that the remuneration policy of the staff of the creditors is not consistent with the number of requests for housing loans accepted, so-called bonuses. In Article 9, the general framework and conditions of advertising and the marketing of credits are laid down, which must not be unfair, vague or misleading and create false expectations for the borrower. In particular, information relating to the interest rate, the total amount of credit and the other terms of the contract - duration, number, amount of instalments and total amount payable - must be disclosed by a representative example. In the provisions of Article 11, the creditor may not refuse to grant the connection to an insurance policy by an insurance company other than that of his preference, where it is provided for, at least equivalent to the insurance policy, proposed by the creditor. The provisions of Article 14 shall provide a description of the mechanism for calculating the total annual actual rate of charge. In the case of credit agreements containing clauses permitting fluctuations in the loan rate and, where appropriate, the charges included in the EWRS, but the amount of which cannot be precisely determined at the time of the calculation, the total actual annual charge rate is calculated on the basis of the assumption that the loan rate and the other charges will remain stable at the level determined at the time of the conclusion of the contract. In accordance with Article 17, the creditor is required to carry out a thorough assessment of the consumer’s creditworthiness prior to the provision of the binding offer. The credit rating should not be mainly based on the assumption that the value of the property intended for residence exceeds the amount of the credit or the assumption that the value of that property will be increased, unless the purpose of the credit agreement is to build or renovate a property intended for residence. Paragraph 4 of that Article establishes a prohibition of a complaint or of an amendment to the contract by the creditor to the detriment of the consumer on the ground that the credit rating was not carried out properly, unless it is shown that the consumer in his knowledge concealed or falsified information. The provisions of Article 22 provide that credit agreements in a foreign currency shall either include a term in the credit agreement whereby the consumer is entitled to convert the credit agreement into an alternative currency at the request of the consumer, at least where the fluctuation in the exchange rate exceeds 20% in relation to that in force at the time of the conclusion of the contract or ensures that the credit agreement is accompanied throughout that period by a financial instrument that hedges exchange rate. Articles 23 and 24 regulate transparency issues in the configuration of the interest rate in floating rate credits and give the consumer the right to early repayment in the course of the signature credit agreement. In particular, the consumer has the right to fully or partially fulfil his obligations under the credit agreement before its expiry. In such a case, the consumer shall be exempted from interest and charges for the remaining period until the end of the contract and the amount discounted. The provisions of Article 27 regulate the general framework within which enforcement procedures should be initiated, in particular with regard to the imposition of late payment interest or any additional charges under the contract concluded. The provisions of Article 37 provide for the mechanisms for out-of-court settlement of disputes between consumers and creditors and credit intermediaries. Paragraph 1 of Article 38 shall not preclude the relinquishment of the consumer by rights recognised to him in accordance with the provisions of this Law. In accordance with paragraph 2 of that Article, the measures adopted cannot be circumvented by means of the wording of the contractual terms, thereby threatening consumers to lose the protection afforded to them by this law. The second part of the bill refers to other arrangements of competence of the Ministry of Finance. In particular, Article 42 provides that where Article 17 (2) of Article 17 of the Law provides that the provisions of paragraphs 8 and 9 of Article 6 shall apply. 2778/1999 concerning the assessment of real estate property property in AEDAC, reference is made to an assessment or report by an assessor of the Occupational Estimates Body, henceforth means an assessment or a report by an independent valuer. In Article 43- ex 44, if I say so correctly, why has been renumbered, specific provisions of Article 2, and Article 3 of Law 3755/2009, in which the concession agreement for the port facilities of Viewers II and III, of the "Piraeus Port Authority S.A." container station, has been ratified, and has been adopted by means of the various provisions repealed in favour of the public limited company party under the name ‘Piraeus Container station S.A.’, The repeal shall apply retroactively from 23-3-2015, the date of entry into force of the relevant Decision of the European Commission. Article 44 provides that in order to ensure the transparency obligation under Union rules on State aid, beneficiaries of individual grants or State aid after 1 July 2016 shall be posted on a public website accessible. Article 45 extends the provisions of Article 1 of Law 976/1979, which regulates the extent of the liability of drivers for traffic accidents caused by public motor vehicles and apply respectively to accidents caused by floating means of the General Secretariat of Public Income. The provisions of Article 46 shall, inter alia, confer on the President of the Legal Council of the State the power to instruct Greek or foreign experts to draw up opinions, in particular legal or technical, required in the course of the conduct of national or international arbitration proceedings and to conclude the relevant contracts without the need to comply with procedures for the award of public contracts. Articles 47 and 50 extend the period of suspension of the exercise of the criminal prosecution of members and the Registrar of the Committee for the Approval of Bank Transactions and of the members of that support team. Provisions of L.4370/2016 on deposit guarantee and guarantee schemes for covered investment services are also amended. Article 51 regulates issues of the Independent Public Revenue Authority, including the possibility for the Secretary-General of Public Revenue, to set up the services set up by the Authority's Directorate-General for Finance, to define the structure, responsibilities and timing of the exercise of that function and its services, as well as the organic positions, to declare the positions of the Heads of Directorate-General and other organic units, to choose the heads, and to place staff in them. The Secretary-General of Income is also given the opportunity to redefinition the trademark - whose logo the authority can use. Finally, under the provisions of Articles 52 to 55, the Municipality of Haliri Attica has been granted retrospectively from 1 to 10-2011 and for forty years the exclusive use of the public property of twenty-nine thousand square meters, with a view to operating sports venues and public spaces. The composition of the board of directors of the public debt management body shall also be defined, without increasing the number of members. Amendment No 753, gives tax and insurance information to the Athens Concert Hall until 28 February 2017. The proposed arrangement is necessary, in order to continue the operation of the Agency, by allowing the recovery of the State grant or any other amount due by third parties in order to allow the payment of the employees’ wages and their contractual obligations to be met in Greece or abroad. In Amendment No 754, the cost of renting immovable property used by the public is regulated. Amendment 755, supplements Article 6 of Law 4881/2014 on the grant by the State budget of the general government bodies for the repayment of their dues. The amendment is urgent in order to provide for the possibility of exceptional granting social security funds to start the liquidation and repayment of outstanding pension applications. With the exceptional grant of social security agencies for the clearing and repayment of outstanding pension applications to beneficiaries, it is expected that an increase in the rate of clearing of pension applications and a final pension decision will be adopted, that a faster return on new pensions to beneficiaries and that the liquidity of the economy is strengthened. This amount is EUR 850 million and is derived from the specific financing of the ESM. It is obvious that the proposed regulations are also urgent and imperative and justify the process of legislating through amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u10	Thank you to SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mr Antoniou. I had an amendment from the Ministry of Finance just now. We will give it to you immediately so that the House can be informed so that it can be placed on it. We continue with Mr Athanasio Bourra, rapporteur of the New Democracy. Mr. Bourra, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I had not predicted, but I was sure, and I said it was the SYRIZA Government's tactic - I had this whole procedure. I repeat this here in plenary. In the past, the directives were submitted autonomously, and now the government is following another practice. By declaring or harmonising a directive with Greek law it also brings a second part, which in itself is an autonomous bill. Indeed, the draft law currently being discussed, from Article 1 to Article 41, refers to harmonisation for the 2014 directive. The second part was another bill with provisions of the Ministry of Finance. Three amendments were incorporated in that discussion in committee. Now - I said back then - I see that we are being bombed by the tabling of time-consuming government amendments. As the President has said, we are constantly being announced and we are being put to the vote on amendments. We cannot even read them, because we are also obliged to follow the process of today's debate. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, I will now come to the point, saying that in this draft law in the first part of Articles 1 to 41 of Directive 2014/17/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 February 2014 on credit agreements for consumers for residential immovable property and amending the directives existing, of 2008/48/EC and 2013/36/EU and of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010, the Government - I said so to the committee - is too late to bring the harmonisation of this directive, when the issue has been known since 2014, and thus bear the number 2014. I believe that this harmonisation would be a very critical and useful tool for Greek consumers. The aim of this directive is to develop a more transparent and competitive internal market through flexible, consistent and fair real estate credit agreements, while promoting sustainable lending and thereby offering a high level of consumer protection. At the same time, a higher degree of efficiency and competitiveness of the internal market, which contributes to financial stability by establishing a framework for all Member States, is ensured. The 2007-2009 global financial crisis, which caused serious social and economic problems, has led to a lack of confidence on the part of all market participants, especially consumers. Many problems have been identified in the mortgage markets of many European Union countries, particularly those relating to inconsistent or even non-existent licensing and operation frameworks for credit intermediaries, as well as for credits denominated in foreign currency. This draft law provides for credit rating prior to the granting of the credit, and specific obligations are laid down for credit intermediaries, credit intermediaries, which must precede the conclusion of credit, but also after the conclusion of this contract. A number of prudential requirements, such as authorisation of establishment and supervision of credit intermediaries and non-credit institutions, are also established. The directive - I said the day before - which was in place on our own days, is 2014, is a very good directive, a very useful and critical tool, which I hope was from a much earlier voted and applied, as very many things would have been avoided. A number of requirements are also laid down so that this directive is of a detailed nature, starting with basic definitions for the implementation of the objectives of the Directive. It also identifies the bodies contributing to the financial education of consumers, such as the General Secretariat of Trade, the Bank of Greece, the Consumers' Counsel, etc. It also lays down the conditions for the activity of creditors and credit intermediaries. It shall regulate the information framework and practices prior to the conclusion of a contract. It also regulates the possibility of converting into alternative currency or ensuring exchange rate risk. It was very important to present the presence in the Committee the day before yesterday of the Consumers' Counsellor in a series of very substantial comments and proposals. You have committed yourself, Minister, to looking at these proposals and making use of them in this bill, because I repeat for all the Members who were not in the committee that we are in line with the directive, which means that you who have the legislative initiative can well fill some points, which may have been omitted in the framework of the directive at all times. What the Consumers' Counsel has put forward outside the general view of the issue, which was very useful, has been very important and I think they should be included, because they will facilitate too many of our fellow citizens today and particularly the category of thousands of our fellow citizens - I have heard the number sixty-five thousand from the Consumers' Counsel - who have borrowed in a Swiss franc and are in a tragic dead end. I, for the knowledge of other colleagues who were not in committee, will table, after I say two words, the proposals of the Consumers' Counselor, for example, as regards a supplement to be given to Article 17, where the Consumers' Counselor proposes to add a certain provision that exists in the Staff Regulations - not to say the numbers, they have no value, because in a short time they will also ring the ending bell of my speaking time - namely: ‘If the creditor is in breach of his obligations under paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, the consumer is relieved of the total cost of credit, including interest and has a duty to pay only the amount of capital, in accordance with the contractual instalments.’ It is something that you need to take into account and you need to fill in. You remember that it was from all sides of all parties in the committee that we had a very good picture of the positions and proposals of the Consumers' Counsellor. Also in Article 23, referring to floating-rate credits in case (b) of that Article, it proposes that the Consumers' Consultant add a provision on the obligation for credit institutions to ensure accessibility of such records by the consumer, because the comparability of such sizes and their variations - indicators, reference rates - is primarily a useful tool for the proposed borrower in order to select the appropriate bank product. It also proposes an addition to Article 37 for dispute settlement mechanisms. I won't read what he proposes. I shall submit to the minutes the proposal from the Consumers' Counsellor. I will also submit two worthwhile documents, which the Consumers' Counsel has submitted to committee, other than the proposals. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Athanasios Bouras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle and articles of the bill, on the economy of time, in the first part, is unequivocally unequivocal to us. We are making some comments to supplement, so that this tool, which from now on will be a very useful tool, can be as good as possible, because we were the government in negotiating and completing this directive. We are now coming to the second part, which refers to the provisions of the Ministry of Finance and not just. Today we do not know what else might emerge. At a very speed I will go to Article 42, which refers to the HR assessment report of the Occupational Auditors' Corps. Article 42 extends the assessment, so that it can be drafted more generally by an independent assessor. Minister, we have consumed very much during the debate in the committee on a very important issue, the building partnerships, where you had brought with Rule 43 at the time - now there is no regulation at all, in order to harmonise the statutes of building cooperatives, in accordance with the provisions of the relevant law. All the wings of the House - and indeed the majority rapporteur - referred to the issue and, in any case, to the very important approach to the issue of building cooperatives. Building cooperatives exceed five hundred and refer to hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens, who are neither shipowners nor large industrialists. They are our fellow citizens of similar sites, such as the Partnership of Metal Workers. I say this because I know this building cooperative that has a corresponding area in my area, because many of these cooperatives are located in the geographical boundaries of the Attica region. Another example is the Cooperative of the IKA, who once deposited some savings for decades now are hostages of some things. This issue needs to be resolved. In any case, we do not go to the analysis of what can be exploited by the building cooperatives, because today that the country has a great deal of problem, especially in the construction professions, it would be very important to have regulations - always within the framework of environmental protection and in the sense of applying the Environmental Protection Constitution - and to be able to unlock this potential of the potential for building cooperatives to move the economy and, above all, in the construction sector. Whilst it was an issue which, from the outset, was regulated, namely the harmonisation of their statutes, required a new deadline - not to say any more arguments - which made harmonization difficult, so many building cooperatives were unable to do it - harmonisation, that is, less than one/3, about sixty-seven, if I am not deceived, by five hundred and something - and while some extensions had been made before, there could have been a provision that would have been extended for a year. I think he's a kid. However, you have put in the second paragraph the need for tax information. Look. You didn't go to do anything new. So you just had to stand up to the concept of an extension on the same terms and conditions that were still in place until then. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In any case, we, neither of us nor the majority rapporteur, expressed reservations and the government majority reservations, so that you could find the 'opportunity' - which is provided for in the Rules of Procedure - withdraw the relevant article. I appeal to you, because it is an important matter. Today all of us, the rapporteurs, have tabled an amendment which refers only to the extension, Minister, in order to harmonize their statutes so that a major issue can be resolved. Now I have had a lot of time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u12	If you're kind enough, finish in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u13	I'll finish. I shall only briefly refer to Article 43 as it stands, because Article 43 was the basis of the building cooperatives. Of course he came to the Committee of Representatives of the KEMKE - Central Unit of State Aid - which was detailed and explained to us some of the things that the decision of 23 March 2015 imposed on our country in order to correct them in practice, at the end of the day. He explained that it is necessary to regulate this. We have asked - not from you, you are new, nor have you had any responsibility - from Mr Tsakalotos, as Minister of Finance, to bring us here in plenary the objections put forward by the Greek side before the decision of 23 March. We're waiting. Article 44, now, refers to ensuring transparency - and once again - regarding the granting of State aid. All these State aids must have the meaning of transparency. Alas, we don't talk about that, we agree. As in Article 45, for responsibilities such as those in the public service of motor vehicle drivers, it also applies to the floating means available to the Secretariat-General for Public Revenue. In Rule 46, I insisted on the first and second reading that the other, arrogant, unrealistic institution, President of the Legal Council, who is a single person, should be able to assign various legal powers in particular, but also technical responsibilities to an esteemer or to some legal body on various issues. We need a little more explanation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u14	You'll tell your denture, Mr. Bourras, because you've been over time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u15	Yeah, I've been over him. You'll cut him out of dentistry, if there is. Now, in Rule 47, in the suspension of criminal prosecution of members and the secretary of the Banking Approval Committee, we have not received any explanation why the two years are five years or the first time I asked the committee or the second. I'm asking today. That's why we keep our reservations and we'll see until the vote what we're going to do. With regard to Article 48 - and there I asked - a few months ago with L.4370/2016, we had passed a comprehensive piece of legislation on the CEC, the Deposit Guarantee Fund. Today you are bringing down the whole set of regulations on this issue. What exactly is going on? There are a few issues that I will not mention now. We've been through this in committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u16	Good. Thank you, Mr. Bourra.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u17	Wait a minute. I wanted, of course, to refer to the Haillands Municipality. We all agree that the area should be granted. There are a few other remarks, Mr President, but I must not go any further because I have misused time. If I can, I will supplement and express myself on exactly what we are going to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u18	Of course, even though you've exhausted the time of dentistry. But we'll show a tolerance. The reason is the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, George Germenis, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u19	First of all, Mr President, it cannot be said that it is not possible to speak at the forefront, a special rapporteur, to cut the amendments behind them. We cannot legislate in this way. When is someone in Stepma, when can she read an amendment that came in at that time? You as the Bureau - and I am not speaking personally - must take your responsibility and decide whether this way of legislating can continue. I don't think it's possible. That is why I will start with the amendments because I believe that, until I have finished this step, there will be other amendments which we will have to discuss in our second language. The amendment with a general number 753 and a specialist 121, says that tax-insurance information is provided to the OMMM and all fighters are suspended at the expense of the OMMM. In February 2016, an amendment was voted in favour of the entire property complex of the Congregation of the Congregation of Music, which came to the Greek State. At the same time, under the provisions of the amendment, the Greek State has taken full responsibility, as a first-time debtor, for serving all the debts of the OMMM to the banks, which would be paid back in twenty-five years' time. Total capital reached EUR 245 million. In other words, the public budget has been charged and committed for twenty-five years. We believe that the Greek Government is subject to and complemented by foreign funds. We do not understand why Greek taxpayers must take on the loan obligations of the Concert Hall. It is also important that this amendment suspends all kinds of fight against, even for the search for certain debts, the amount of which is EUR 43.41 million. The exemption of the Concert Hall of Music from all taxes and rights to the public in respect of transactions relating to the loan obligations mentioned above, if it does not constitute unequal treatment against Greek citizens, at the same time as it favours an organisation, without in substance providing the Greek State with only losses and debts, which forced them to take refuge in the Greek taxpayer. Of course the Golden Dawn votes against. The amendment, under a general number 754 and a special 122, concerns the payment of buildings rented by the public in the years 2014-2015. This reveals for the most time your misfortune, when you do not comply with the procedures provided for in order to pay the rents due, so that the State does not pay its debts properly. You do not, however, show the same flexibility when a Greek citizen owes and does not have to pay his debt every quarter, every four months to taxi and TEBE, and here we are against. In Amendment No 755/123 which disburses money for the payment of outstanding pensions, pensions should not have been pending. It makes sense here to say that pensioners must be paid, but the state must have taken care of these loose ends more quickly and not come to Parliament in a second and third time. In Amendment No 756/124. It was only in June 2016, together with the prerequisites you brought to the vote, an amendment amending the provisions of 4270/2014. This alone demonstrates your dubiousness and the superficial way of legislating, because you are supposed to be amending provisions in order to make the administrative bodies of the public affluent. You forget, however, that you yourself introduced the provisions amended by these provisions. Now about the bill. You in New Democracy are cutting off on building cooperatives. It is well known that all the groups from the right wing, from the left wing, from the centre wing, have a building partnership between the MPs and, indeed, in an area of filleting in Athens, in the state, which you are taking advantage of. You have a special NDAP, which is not what any other citizen in the Greek state has. You don't pay the water, you put it in your pocket. You have made there the tennis club for your recreation and everything is fine. It doesn't open a nose, it doesn't open a nostril, but you're cut for the building cooperatives, and you're obviously cut off, because all classes except Golden Dawn, you've put your hand in the same piece of the same pie. As far as I know, in 2016 you brought the Code of Conduct, which was amended in 2016 and we do not know why the directive was not discussed at the time and is being voted on today, without the time required to study it. We hope - we have told you in committee too - that you have checked that there are conflicting provisions. In Articles 5, 6, 7 and 8, the credit institution shall request personal information from borrowers, which shall reach the point of breach of personal data. You can't ask the consumer so personal information. That's a regular consumer freckle. There is the possibility of processing information from third parties and even you have already transferred loans to foreign funds. These loans received by the Greek citizen, you transferred them to foreign funds without informing the borrower. Indeed, these elements leaked into him - they're abroad - and who knows what companies they've gone to. This in itself is a violation of the personal data law. In addition to this is the provision of information free of charge to consumers - Article 7 - and only if the latter are consistent with the provision of the data requested by the credit institution. This demonstrates exactly what we have just said, namely that, on the one hand, the consumer's absolute file is legitimised - and, on the other hand, it should be stressed that consumer data are not given to a public authority at the outset, so that it could be justified, under conditions, to grant them, but to a public limited company or even to a natural person acting on behalf of the public limited company - and, on the other hand, to the consumer's personal data - who is forced to trust them in the credit institution, in order to grant him a loan - they are channelled to other authorities in the context of the interconnection of the authorities and the universal supervision of credit institutions. On the basis of this thought, we should also stress that this directive as it was introduced in order to incorporate it into the national legal framework, is in the form of a technocratic legislation and constitutes a direct insult to the hard core of the personal elements of the individual. We say this because in the definition of the creditor, including the companies of n.4354/2015, companies that transfer claims to non-performing loans are included. In other words, we accept that the consumer's personal information will be in the hands of third parties for processing without the consumer's prior information or consent. In Article 17, the creditor shall be entitled to change the terms of the contract and to amend the agreed arrangements in order to improve the position of the creditor. The above, of course, is not directly reflected. In particular, Article 17(4) states: ‘... unless the consumer is aware that he has concealed or falsified information’. This is where we are thinking. First, is there any reference to facts which the court will judge and cannot unilaterally decide on? If Article 19 is also taken into account, which the bank always confirms and exercises a thorough review of the information provided by the consumer, we do not understand where, on the creditor's side, the right to amend the contract is maintained. So what's he saying here? He says when someone comes to go get a loan, it's supposed that the bank has checked if he can get a loan of a thousand euros or a few million. The Committee of Inquiry is filled with such cases. He hadn't checked each bank institution earlier on his asset? Later, then, this bank comes in and says about the very rich, those who have taken millions, that it is not at all concerned, while for a poor man who may have taken 50,000, 600,000, 70,000, 100,000 euros to open a small business and who then cannot handle it, there, of course, the law applies. This is what you do with this bill, unlock the hands of the banks to be able to interfere with the private business. The most characteristic example that shows your hypocrisy in the system is the following. According to the Bank's Code of Conduct, the borrowers had to come to the bank for settlement, settlement, reporting, etc. The truth is that the red loans now, after the borrower’s presence, would appear as serviceable, thus reducing the losses of the banks and reducing their portfolio. This is only to prove that credit institutions are aimed at profitability and are not cut off for the simple people who have received a loan from the poorer. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm afraid I don't have time. Article 22 applies to contracts in foreign currency. We have also referred to the committee, but we have not received an answer. In fact, the people to whom this has happened have given us specific documents in our lockers. Court rulings have been made and even questions have been put on the issue of mortgage loans in a Swiss franc. The depreciation of the euro in relation to this currency is a unilateral act and is harmful to the borrower. Its scale is 20%. It's quite high, and it's not an insurance policy for the borrower. Our fellow citizens, who have literally been 'wrapped', are thousands. Why, alas, how can there be a balance between the Swiss franc and the euro? They got a $30,000 loan, $40,000, $50,000 and they got $100,000 on that ratio. I do not have time, Mr President, for the articles in the second part. I'm going to go on in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr. Germenis. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being informed about the history of the building and the way the House is organized and toured to the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" Chamber - I imagine you also saw the exhibition on John Kapodistria - and fifty two students and students and three educational sessions from the 1st High School of Nice. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Let me tell you that you are attending a legislative meeting. We have a bill. The rapporteurs of the parties are placed, and after the debate there will be the vote, so we will have a law of the state. We're in this process. Mr Ioannis Maniatis, a Member of Parliament and a special speaker of the Democratic Partnership, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, we are once again spectators of the same work. We in this Chamber are discussing the incorporation of the Community directive on housing loans and, at the same time, those institutions which are negotiating the future of our society have left, returned to their capitals and the government, once again awkward, is watching the finance ministers of the strong European countries meeting in a few days' time - Friday - in Berlin to decide without us. The government therefore follows the same practice. Heroic negotiation steps back constantly and at the end, in January, we will be coming, with our hands up, with our backs on the wall and the demonized Mr. Diaselblum will be confirmed, who said a week ago: "I am very pleased to work with the most cooperative Memorandum Government, Mr. Tsipras' government, because at last we have an interlocutor, who has such good acceptance of what we are discussing." But, fortunately, there will be no voices in the Greek society that will characterise this most cooperative Memorandum Government "German germans" and "solden" as some did just two years ago, because it has not been a long time since! So at the same time that the country is losing in the negotiations, we have Erdogan to challenge the Lausanne Treaty, to provoke with extreme demands in the Cypriot and Eddie Rama from Albania to put issues of Chamouria, which have been forgotten for many years. The government is following awkward, not knowing how to deal with these issues, which are important national issues. So we are in a country governed by a government of defeated Greece. Greece, however, is not defeated. Greece requires the breath of progressive reforms and progressive patriotism. In this direction, this government cannot do anything. It is, however, a government that succeeded - for example - in the May 2015 negotiations to lose EUR 21 billion from national income. It is a government that managed in 2015 to remove from the Greek households 5.5 billion euros according to the latest data from the statistical service. It is a government that managed in 2015 on the basis of the elements of the ERGAN system, to reduce full-time employment from 52% in 2014 to just 46% today, after just two years and it is a government that, at the same time, is the most lucky government in the last few years. It is a government, during which the price of oil from 120 dollars the barrel that was at the end of 2014 is only $50 per barrel today. You know, ladies and gentlemen, what this means to the national economy? That means saving more than EUR 3 billion. Only for PPC that published 2015 data, the profit is EUR 400 million. So we have a government which makes it easier for the international economic situation, with loans that can exist at zero rates, at a price of oil which is below the thresholds of the last few decades. At the same time, however, Greek households lose income and the national economy loses competitiveness and extroversion. We are now coming to discuss a housing loan directive, a directive that comes very late on the part of the European Union, because in addition to the Greek oligopoly, we also have the oligopoly of the European Union. While the crisis in housing has started in the United States since 2006-2007, Europe after about eight years comes to incorporate a directive on the protection of first home borrowers and a two-year additional delay comes the Greek Government, to incorporate this directive. Madam Minister, the heart of Greece is beating on red loans. Of red loans, perhaps the most important part are loans for the first residence of poor and medium-sized households. You have incorporated all the articles of the directive. We have negotiated it by our representatives of governments. Obviously we agree in principle and in most of the articles. But you don't do anything more to make one step forward. We as a Democratic Institution have made it clear in public, how we understand how we regulate red housing loans, with a full grid of proposals that we have tabled in the public debate. I take the opportunity here today to present the three most important of these proposals: Proposal first for households involved, who are beneficiaries of social solidarity income, for poor households. Full freezing of the debt for all these social groups, which you can do without any risk of the banking system. The second category is those who can repay, but not the way their instalments are today. The proposal for these social groups is the full personalisation, in an objective and neutral way, of the potential of these people, our fellow citizens. Taking into account income, tax obligations, insurance obligations, objectively determine the maximum ceiling for red housing loans, so that, on the one hand, the banks are informed, the borrower and, at the same time, the state, banks, the system, the national economy can collect what they can collect in order not to be led to Kaidas and our fellow citizens. There is also the third category, which concerns tens of thousands of borrowers, who have fallen into the trap of borrowing with a Swiss franc. The proposal is clear. It is more than sixty-five and seventy-three thousand borrowers in a Swiss franc. We propose that the loan should be converted from a Swiss franc into a euro at the rate that existed on the date of signature of the contract, and that the same should be done at these regulated loans and at the rate. The question is as follows: Beyond the incorporation in a formal, current, miserable way of a Community directive, does the government intend, in fact, to deal with these three categories of red borrowers? I now come to two individual remarks on the draft legislation under discussion. The government has tabled an amendment to the effect that some eighty thousand pensions should be advanced, from those who are waiting in the line to be promoted and integrated into the country's pension system, asking for EUR 859 million to be disbursed from the state budget. This amendment, which has now been incorporated into the main body of the bill, will obviously be supported, because it comes to respond to a real problem of Greek citizens. However, three important issues are raised. This regulation firstly shows that there is amateurism and incompetence in the way these issues are handled, because it has been delayed and amended by the government to resolve an issue that has been known for at least two years. Second major issue. It is revealed that there is another "black hole" in the country's insurance system. Despite what the rulings say, despite what the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Security say, it turns out that there were no more 860 million more anticipated, which had to be attributed to the Greek society, in order to promote these pensions. There's a third issue. Well, that's all right. How is that? What business plan? Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, that the eighty-three thousand applications that are supposed to be put forward in 2017 mean substantially doubling the work of the workers in the insurance funds, who do not have the opportunity to respond to the current activity? Has the government submitted any operational plan, in what way is this provision, which we are legislating here today, will it actually be possible to implement? We as a Democratic Independent, are very afraid that we will see the same things we see in the refugee region. In other words, they are pouring 800 million in Brussels and which can be invested in order to resolve the problem of refugees and migrants in our home country and especially in the islands of the eastern Aegean, and the government has not yet tabled a proposal for financing, and for others to be served by the relevant ministers and the government. In the regulation on building cooperatives, I will say just one sentence: at a time when building does not exist, where no one invests a single euro in real estate, supporting collective bodies organised in collective schemes, in order to promote a well-functioning private building, it is always a positive step. We have asked the Government to remove the tax information provision so that the statutes for these cooperatives can be harmonized, which, in fact, are thinking and could promote such a structure. I would remind you of something which also continues to be ignored by the government in order to resolve this large issue of about a hundred thousand Greek citizens' families on the issues of building cooperatives, which for decades have been ponding. In 2014, we provided for a regulation that in all cases where land has been purchased which cannot be structured for various environmental, forest, archaeological and other reasons in these lands for exchanging with public land in abandoned settlements in the country, so that, on the one hand, the issue of the members of the building cooperatives can be resolved, but, in particular, a new emphasis, life, breath, existence, activity in abandoned settlements of the country is given, so that we have a situation that wins both the members of the cooperative and the Greek countryside. And that's on the bells! No action on this! Ladies and gentlemen, we have placed ourselves at the forefront of this legislation. However, the country's major problem is not the regulation and incorporation of Community directives. The country's major problem is the particular government that has the fate of its citizens. This government must leave as soon as possible. It is an incompetent government, a sad bench manager, misery, collective insecurity and collective depression. It is a government that must leave, in order for Greece, the Greek people, to regain hope and prospect, to take the Greek citizen's breath, to regain faith in the forces of society, to regain faith in the forces of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr. Maniotis, and the economy in time. Let me tell you that according to our list and those who are expected to speak - because we have three speakers - so that we can finish around 14: 00 - not more than 14: 30' - we have to be consistent in time until we have a relative economy. Before giving the floor to my next colleague, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme of the "Corporate of Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, eighteen students and students, as well as two attendants of teachers from the 57th Athens Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Athanasios Vardalis, has the floor. Here, Mr Vardalis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Once again in this Chamber of all the parties, who see as a one-way to our country's membership of the European Union, it is - I would say - an ambitious attempt to convince us that another directive incorporating it into our country's law is to protect the people. In their efforts to convince them that everyone is interested in the people's interests - in this case for the protection of consumers - borrowers - is asking for who was the first to negotiate it and the only criticism they are making is the question of delaying its ratification by the Greek Parliament. All of them supported them in the debate which took place in the committee that this directive creates more favourable conditions for mortgage borrowers, clears the fine letters of banks, obliges banks to inform candidate borrowers and others. But let us see what the reality is. If we look at the explanatory statement itself, but also in Directive 2014/17/EU, we can easily see the real objective that the directive has. What does the explanatory statement say specifically? On page 2, it states that the provisions of the Directive 'ensure the highest degree of efficiency and competitiveness of the internal market, which contributes to financial stability, by establishing a framework for all Member States themselves'. So here's what concerns the European Union's staff. They are seeking to develop further the competitiveness, efficiency of the internal market, how to achieve the stability of the financial system. The same report on the first page specifically states: 'The global financial crisis, which caused serious social and economic problems, has led to a lack of confidence on the part of all market participants and especially consumers'. In other words, they're looking for customers, but not whoever they are. They want those who can normally pay their debts under any circumstances, namely, that the problem of red loans should not be brought up again. And the problem of red loans is not the heart of Greece as it was heard in this Chamber. It's the bank problem. This is why the issue of the management of red loans, in conjunction with the procedures for the liquidation of firms in difficulty, remains high on the agenda of the anti-grass negotiation between the SYRIZA-ANEL co-government and the quartet steps. On this issue, what does the explanatory statement say? ‘It is noted that consumers within the Union have significant levels of debt, much of which is concentrated on credits related to real estate and are intended for residence’. The same problem points out that there is in all the countries of the European Union, elsewhere smaller and elsewhere larger. In our country, red housing loans amounted to 42% of the 35% that was in 2014 and, of course, with an increase. Non-performing loans continue upwards in our country and throughout the European Union and a large proportion of them are loans for housing. So here's their problem, here's what they're coming to solve with this directive. Their main objective is not to relieve the people's households, the unemployed, the self-employed, the working people's families, who are unable to repay their loans, but to strengthen the banking system and proactively to collect land and real estate in the hands of large groups to move forward with their investment projects. And what they do with this directive, in order to achieve their objectives, is to establish uniform rules, a single framework in all countries - members of the European Union. Why are they doing this? What's useful to them? Single rules regulate competition between banks and, above all, the smooth functioning of the single capital market in the European Union. This issue is also linked to the whole framework of the European banking union, which requires uniform rules of operation on key issues, so that it is easier to control by the European Union institutions for the European banking union. Single operating rules still play an important role for banking. They shall contribute further to the centralisation and concentration of the banks. They promote and accelerate the process of restructuring the financial system as a whole. This essentially helps the large banking groups. It is a development that will prove to the detriment of workers in the banks, who will pay it with redundancies and the intensity of their exploitation. Besides, there is now a wealth of experience around this issue. The four large banks considered to be systemic during the recapitalisation procedure almost entirely control the Greek capital market. Bank workers have fallen by about 30% at the same time while labour relations have changed further. They already experience considerable cuts in wages and a total of their rights. On the other hand, with regard to the popular layers, along with the robbery they are being made, the extortion of their loans and the exploitation of their small deposits, all of which are, of course, an important source of financing for the capital at close to zero rates. Ultimately, the damage of the capitalist economic crisis pays them the popular layers, either as taxpayers, as popular savers or as borrowers. You all know very well that for the development of investment in business groups bank financing is necessary. In order to do this, however, it is necessary to restore normality conditions in the financial system. Thus, along with the reinforcements of the new NSRF, the Juncker package and the State Budget Public Investment Programme, warm money will be found for business groups. So why is there a necessary step to support the banks at this time. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that in a period of capitalist economic crisis, people's confidence in banks has decreased, they do not participate in this market, and on this basis they want to stimulate consumer confidence. As for the arrangements for informing borrowers, and so on, their protection as a whole, in our view they do not offer any protection. And that's for the following reasons. Firstly, because the directive retains all complexity in informing the candidate borrowers. Secondly, it does not ensure any control over whether or not this is done. Thirdly, it does not ensure an objective comparison of products. Fourthly, the vagueness of the conditions laid down by specific articles of the draft law is such that it allows the banks to interpret them in any way that they are concerned. The same applies to foreign currency loans, which does not actually allow for a fluctuation of over 20%. 20% on its own is huge. So the protection of consumers, which all other parties invoke, is actually the cheese in the faeces that have set up the "grills" of bank capital. Their mockery has no end. They call on the banks to show through the directive and the draft law, as they say in introductorys - I read self-determination - 'fair tolerance to make every reasonable effort to achieve a solution before entering into seizure procedures'. Such exhortations to banking capital can only be a mockery toward the people when on the other hand and banks even plan electronic auctions to prevent them from being prevented. Ladies and gentlemen, no matter how much you call for the protection of borrowers you cannot hide the harsh reality of the people's strata. Extortion, total implication of first home protection, seizures and auctions for popular families and other support for the profitability of financial system banking groups. This is the harsh reality of the folk layers. With such bills you bring, neither protection nor relief of popular strata can exist. The debate on the so-called rescue of banks is not about their own interests but about managing the capitalist economic crisis for the benefit of the bourgeoisie and their competitive interests. The bank's mess with the bank, their owners will take it out of the intensity of the workforce's exploitation. The JRC, which is addressed to the people, clearly says that the response against this perspective cannot be in any way, but in no case an individual case, but a case of clarifying certain conditions set by the banks. In our view, a relief to the people's family can be given to these days if the people themselves do not place their hopes on the various saviors if they take the case into their hands by putting their own seal on political developments. By organising and fighting the main opponent, who is no more than the action of business groups to secure their profits, to demand the necessary measures to relieve him. And such measures, in this direction - we have tabled them in Parliament as well - are, in our view, first of all, the removal of all kinds of interest and settlement. After deduction of interest to write off 50% of the debt to the banks. The amount remaining to cease giving rise to interest for as long as the economic crisis lasts. As far as the unemployed are concerned, the payment of their debts should be stopped for as long as the economic crisis lasts. To stop all forms of forced execution by banks at the expense of debtors, people's families, for sums due. Such measures are necessary, since the vast majority of people's households are drowned in bank loans, which cannot repay and lead hundreds of thousands of workers, self-employed, poor farmers and farmers, literally to despair. Of course, these JRC proposals for the relief of the people's family runs completely counter to the Euro-Union framework, the interests of monopolies and, in particular, of banking groups. They show, however, the real rival to working and popular strata. They show at the same time the direction to be taken by the struggles of the people in order to be effective. With all this, it is clear that the Communist Party of Greece is voting against this draft law in principle. In my time, I would like to say two - three words about some articles. First of all, with regard to Article 43, on the privatisation of the PPA and the concession agreement, I would like to say that we as a Communist Party in Greece have no illusion that the abolition of certain tax exemptions is a philosophical policy. After all, all of you - and the government - agree to the implementation of the privatisation policy, which is, of course, a more general policy of the European Union in order to find a profitable way out of accumulated funds, and that policy will continue to be implemented in the future. Some privileges are, of course, abolished by a decision of the European Union, because healthy competition must be shielded. Once you agree with this policy, we are sure that you will find other ways to give the corresponding prerogatives to capital. We shall vote on this article without the above delusions. This is also evidenced by the withdrawal of Article 46, which was withdrawn not only by the government, but also by the other parties in the Anti-Population, where it abolished the 30% discount on ships which are permanently berthed on Greek territory. Because my time is over, for the rest of the articles, which we consider to be important, we will be placed in dentistry. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr Vardalis, and the consistency in time. The reason for this is the special speaker from the river Mr. Spyridon Dannelis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think - we were saying this in the committee during the debate - that we can now move on to respect for the basic rules of 'EU legislation', especially when we have to ratify either international conventions or European directives. I think we should deal with them alone. We must do this, but we can do this. And, of course, I understand and share the view that there is a constant set of various amendments and that we need to legislate by improving previous draft laws with these amendments, we can adopt a methodology of having regular 'pasparatist' bills - to say that - per ministry - especially with your own Ministry, of course, we have a constant need for legislative improvements. We must do this, but we must do it as we should, without undermining our international conventions and, above all, the European directives. It is characteristic that only - half an hour ago, one hour ago - we started the debate, we had the tabling of a late ministerial amendment. I think we can get these together, and it would be nice to do it. The ratification of today's Directive 2014/17/EU, ladies and gentlemen, has emerged through a long process that began in 2010 and was completed in 2014 by a codecision of the European Parliament and of the Council and is now coming up with a two-year delay of an important directive on issues relating to a large part of Greek society. It would be a good thing if we were to follow other times, because there was indeed a great deal of delay in the European Union too, but we also have this two-year delay on a subject which is "burning" a large part of society and which is of interest to a large part of society, because it is about credit agreements for residential immovable property. We note here that it does not concern business loans, it concerns loans for housing. And this is the first time that the European Union has introduced housing legislation and, of course, has been the major crisis that has come from the United States and has hit at the beginning very intense countries such as Spain, Ireland, but it has spread and, of course, it has also seemed to be Greece to a significant extent. Its adoption was necessary since much of the consumer's debt across European territory is concentrated on credits relating to immovable property. The directive sets as objectives the avoidance of financial crises, such as the one that occurred in 2008-2009 in the United States, while trying to ensure consumer protection and the creation of a single market in housing loans. There are now strict conditions laid down in national law under which a citizen is deemed to be worthy of his bank. There is particular emphasis on the transparency that should govern the sale of a housing loan by providing information on the loan in a comparable and uniform format for the potential variable rate, foreign exchange, cost, etc. Let us also remember the issues that arose when the judicial authorities of the Member States of the Union and of other countries in Europe were called upon to deal with loans linked to their country of origin with the Swiss franc, which in many cases had been abusive to the terms and misleading of borrowers, a problem which also employs a significant number of Greek citizens, which is open and, obviously, needs to be regulated quickly. Adventure with the Swiss franc was one of the main reasons for the directive we are talking about today. In addition, a mandatory housing function with other products such as life insurance, pension scheme, etc. will be prohibited. The new rules will address problems such as irresponsible practices in granting and receiving loans, misleading advertising and marketing and insufficient information before the conclusion of contracts, while the loan vendors should disclose their relationship with the bank, as well as the commission each receives. There is also a mandatory period of 'cooling off' of seven days during which the borrower may change his mind, while the Member States may prohibit the imposition of a fine in the event of early repayment of the loan. Creditors must demonstrate reasonable tolerance and make every effort to achieve an out-of-court solution before entering into confiscation proceedings, in accordance with the Code of Conduct provided for in Article 1 of Law 4224/2013. In the event of consumer default, no additional charges may be imposed beyond, firstly, the ceiling laid down for the default rate and, secondly, the reimbursement of costs which objectively arise for the creditor in the context of enforcement actions. The parties to the credit agreement may expressly provide that the repayment or transfer of the guarantee is sufficient to repay the credit. In any event where, after the enforcement proceedings, the creditor remains unpaid, the creditor shall facilitate its repayment taking into account, in particular, the first group of reasonable costs of living and the existence of any other assets. If, after the divestment of the property remains, Member States should guarantee minimum living conditions for citizens. It should be noted that a guarantor of the proper implementation of the framework law is defined by the Bank of Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, of course the Potami is voting for the ratification of this directive, as we are, of course, firmly doing in each case. By passing now on to the additional provisions which, as I mentioned in my introduction, are inappropriately accompanying the directive, I should like to make a very brief reference to some of them. The old Article 44, now 43, which refers to the obligation to retroactive, from 23-3-2015, to abolish aid for beneficial provisions and others to transfer the PPA to 'COSCO', will vote on it. However, we cannot fail to note that similar procedures, methodologies are at the expense of the country's credibility and I think they contribute to deregulation of a climate that we must create to regain the confidence of potential investors that we so much need at this juncture. So, in order to avoid a corresponding adventure in the future, we must be extremely careful about what has to do with the concessions we have before us. Article 44 is to be voted in favour of it because it helps to ensure transparency. Arrangements are adopted, which are, of course, more necessary in the functioning of public life. We are pleased that you have shared our opposition to the former Article 46, which you have finally withdrawn, which concerned the lifting of a 30% discount at the end of residence and ships. It was appallingly contradictory to adopt such a provision at a time when we all agree that we must do everything we can to support the basic industry in the country, tourism and fisheries. In Article 51, 'Modification of Legislative Decrees', I do not escape the temptation to refer to - taking a deep breath - in a paragraph which is, I think, characteristic of the way of legislating and which is an issue, which, Minister, on the basis of this wording, we must see why we need to improve the quality of the production of legislative work, but also to improve the quality of the laws themselves, to make the laws available to the citizens who will be interested in bringing to them, but of course the experts and those who in the future try to clarify whether things are valid or not. And, of course, it reintroduces in the best way the need to codify and simplify this legislative jungle, which each citizen has to deal with. So I breathe and I read a paragraph. At the end of paragraph 6 of Article 8 of Law No.4389/2016 94, the following subparagraphs shall be added: ‘For the President, the members of the Management Board and the expert invited from abroad, working costs shall be recognised by any means of transport, external daily and off-shore remarks in case b, category I, paragraph 1 of Article 5 of Chapter A of Subsection d of Part B of Article 2 of Law No.4336/2015 94’. The legislator spoke clearly. Turning to the bill, Article 52 on the legalisation of the transfer of the use of the area concerned to the Municipality of Halandri says 'yes'. And with regard to the article that has been withdrawn, which relates to the tax information of the building cooperatives, there is a whole range of issues in relation to the building cooperatives, which have involved many fellow citizens throughout Greece. The case of building cooperatives was a tool that, if not characterised by various malicious practices at the beginning, could be positive. But it is now too many fellow citizens and I think it would be worth it if an initiative were to be taken for a more comprehensive modernisation of the whole framework for the operation of the building cooperatives and for a clearing of who can continue to exist and have a purpose, who cannot and how the members of the cooperatives that are caught in the future have a well-being within the framework of the proper treatment of citizens from the public area. I think that it is possible to resolve issues which have been employing many fellow citizens for years and also help to tackle environmental, aesthetic and aesthetic degradation problems for several regions of the country. It is time, conditions have matured, to lift many of the pathogens that have accompanied the building cooperatives since birth. I should like to conclude by referring to the late Ministerial Amendment No 756 and special number 124, on the provisions on public accounting. These are technical regulations which all appear to be in the right direction if we accept that the aim, of course, is to reduce red tape and facilitate public payments as far as possible. At the same time, however, because this seems to be the will and objective pursued, at the same time, according to the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, we are creating another burden on the state budget and general government bodies, once we are setting up new organisational structures. I do not know, firstly, whether it is necessary to create new structures and not to restructure the existing structures and, secondly, we do not have the exact amount of costs that will be required, because this is not provided for by your proposal. I do not think we can try to improve existing problems without any interest in creating new ones in other areas or side-by-side. We can avoid it, and I think it takes such an effort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr. Thanasis Bardalis, special speaker...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u27	It was Mr. Danellis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u28	I'm sorry, Mr. Dannelly. Mr Dimitrios Kammenos has the floor from the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much, Mr President. In view of what Mr President has said, I do not know if Mr Danellis has passed through the party to tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u30	From the Refreshing Left.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u31	Okay. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, and from plenary I should like to wish you ironheads and the best for your term of office. I can assure you that you will have the full support of the Group of Independent Greeks and I imagine all Members in your work. Because a project, like yours, is a project for everyone, is not partisan nor colored. The Independent Greeks, as I said in my report to committee, are voting in principle and on the articles of this bill. It is the harmonisation of legislation under Directive 214/2017 of the European Union. We don't have any differentiation. But here you will have to allow me - and I will not eat all your time - to give some information today and I will have to read some elements of the directive itself. Why do I not know how many of you have had the time to read this directive in themselves, which we incorporate, in order to help our fellow citizens, show what solutions the European Union provides for, even slowly, in loans that are foreign currency, what do we mean when we say foreign currency, is not the currency in which the borrower resides and creates his income or what else? I will explain them, to be clear and to be recorded in the Minutes and more to help all citizens and to have a clear picture. I will also explain what is happening on the Greek market with the legal claims and actions made against banks, either alone or on the basis of loan associations, which now employ Greece and housing, which are at the rate of Swiss francs. The problem was created when the Central Bank of Switzerland decided to change the parity, so it charged all borrowers all over Europe and all over the world and not just Greece. You will, however, allow me to begin with an issue that I raised and was the question of Article 43 on building cooperatives and tax information. There has been an attempt to reach agreement with all the parties - and I thank the Minister for that. The Members of all the parties must know that yesterday we have been consulted, we are trying to find a solution, we are not leaving the matter to his fate. But, as I said in my introduction, we must be fair and treat the citizen with justice, so that he can deal with us, when he is going to fulfil his tax obligations, with the same respect. Today I have brought and will submit to the Minutes - I have deleted from the TAXIS the Hellenic Republic from IOI Athens - a warning of late debts to a president of a building cooperative. The amount of the certificate is 493,570,30, that is, half a million euros has been established to the president of the cooperative. The capital is EUR 381,400 and the surcharges EUR 112,165. I'm filing it, 'cause someone probably thought or thought there was no, that's not what's happening. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Watch out now, because the state does this. Because the state can't go wrong. Here is a small parentheses: Mr Famellos, my friend Socrates, together with us, should also be able to deal with this issue, because it is clearly an issue on which we must build the legality of the shares and the land of the cooperatives. The state sends the alert to the president why? Because it is not possible, because there is no appropriate legislation, to send HNVY to each of the shareholders or partners of the cooperative or shareholders. It has been said: "I am sending it to you and pick it up from the others." And this has been done before us not in the governance now of the SYRIZA - Independent Greeks. So what does the state do? You will allow me the expression, it is not appropriate, but it is that, that is, it has a mafia tactic, it blackmails. I mean, he sends half a million HNPH to a man who has no responsibility and tells him to collect them from the others. But the state will never collect them and create a huge problem for man itself and the issue is not solved. To solve the issue, we must have very clean forest land, very clean land uses. All this has changed the state, unfortunately, unilaterally. His contract, when he gave the shares in the cooperatives, was given for purely developmental housing reasons. Then the Charter was changed, because many of them, the state unilaterally, described them as forestally, without anyone being consulted or given any reason. So there's no legality anymore. So the relevant Ministry - and not Mrs Papanatsiou - needs to account for and hold the shares, that HNVIA should go to each partner, partner, sharer, sharer, pay everyone, and declare in E9 what it needs to say from its real estate and as the owner of a piece of land. From that point on, we should not leave the issue without having a law. For now, note what else is at stake, which we discussed yesterday and with the Minister. If we do not have a normal framework, that is, the statutes have not been harmonized, there is no provision - the lawyers know much better than I do, they may have taken co-operative status - what is the next day. So, as I said yesterday, if, in three hundred and sixty-five days plus one, there is no tax information, for the good reasons I said, but has it not harmonized what may happen? What I suspect will happen is she's going to go to liquidation. Clearing up what does it mean? We must now say it economically, but we must say it legally. Clearing means that it dissolves itself justly and we don't know what will happen on earth. What does the earth mean? That this land no longer owns. Legally, that's what I understand, unless someone can fix me. I haven't been able to make a meeting in two days - I'm going to make some meetings in the next few days - see the next day what it is. Because if we don't make sure that the cooperative doesn't come out in liquidation, so the land stays without the owner - a land without the owner these days is something for me and strange, we should see it - where this land will go? Who's gonna claim it, the public? Where will this land go and what will each shareholder, sharer or partner or partner in the cooperative, when without their own responsibility the state clears the cooperative and loses its land? This is where we're going to get into legal trouble. I shall therefore submit it to the Minutes. It is a preliminary amendment that has not been tabled, so that all Members can see it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I have said that the cooperative must be made, that we have a 12-month period. I am simply writing to make the statutes, because there is no co-operative. And many have built up and harmonized their statutes and it is a fundamental condition, but at least not at this stage, as a prerequisite, as a conditionality, for tax information, because some have information, some do not. So horizontally you can't destroy and go clean up to the one who doesn't have. Because if HNVIA goes, as I gave the Secretariat half a million ago, he can't be informed. The moment he's not informed, I can't blame him. Any fellow Member who wants to take a look at the draft amendment may take a look at the draft amendment. If we can intergroup - and this is my proposal and I am closing this - and with the help of the Minister, who sees it positively - and here I will say a word about the institutions, because they are looking at it - we must all sign it and explain why we are asking for it, we must understand the institutions that control it. Mr. Juliarakis and Mr. Tsakalotos are speaking at the moment and they see the "tick in the box", that is, that there you have no tax and they say "why you don't? Is this state going to falsify?’ We're not going to outlaw it. Let's go electoral an illegality that's been happening for years and explain to the institutions that it's not illegal. Illegality is to behave unequal to someone whose property is protected by constitutional law. He owns constitutional property and cannot be taken away from him by the state without the owner of the land or property being responsible. The other amendments we are voting on, as we have said. We all support the last one. It is a long time, but it is very important at some point to set up the mutual settlement procedure in double taxation agreements, because when the company splits up or breaks off assets or is merged with another, matters must now be closed. The code also provides for no stamps, taxes, etc., in favour of third parties. This must also be done, so that the company can move forward on all matters. From there on, we're going a little to the red loans, which are in a foreign currency. I shall table the directive itself in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the abovementioned directive, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Please very much, anyone in the mood to read - and we should all read - in chapter 9 where it says 'loans in foreign currency and variable rate loans'. It is a page and it explains exactly what the European process provides for. We need to know what is happening, what has been voted on and what the European Central Bank says. We will say here in the definitions what we mean as an alternative currency. It is, firstly, or the currency in which the consumer receives mainly his income or maintains his assets, from which the credit is to be repaid, as demonstrated in the last credit rating of his credit rating prior to the credit agreement, or is, secondly, the currency of the Member State in which the consumer either resides at the time of the conclusion of the credit agreement or is currently resident. That is to say whether he takes the currency of the contract or where his income is created and makes his tax declaration. That's a flexibility that the law gives. Below, however, in 3 - and it is important to record - it says when the consumer has the right to convert the credit agreement into an alternative currency, according to the alpha item, which was the currency in which he creates his income in paragraph 1, the Member States shall ensure that the exchange rate, on the basis of which the conversion takes place, is the exchange rate in force on the day of the conversion, unless otherwise provided for in the credit agreement. And below 5 says there's no retroactiveness. This has been voted, but it leaves a window in the state that if the bank contract with the borrower provides otherwise, the retroactiveness or anything else may not apply. I would ask you, then, to see it. I'll submit it to the Minutes. I have it on the page which is the two important points for study, so that consumers can be informed and informed. In the meantime, the European Central Bank has pointed out three points, and I have also found them through the soc'ing which has been done since my communication with the ECB. It was in English but in English this text is in Greek. The European Central Bank has three main points, which it points out in relation to the management of loans in another currency with a exchange rate difference. Firstly, it is the negative effects of regulation on the capital adequacy of credit institutions - I do not read the rest. The distribution of the financial burden must be done in a fair manner between consumers, credit institutions, governments and other competent authorities in order to avoid moral danger in the future. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] The wording is important. Neither the European Central Bank can legislate nor we nor any parliament, without taking into account the ethical implications of unequal treatment or anything else that brings imbalance or unconstitutionalism to any law you go to vote on. In conclusion, I would like to say that in the Greek courts right now, I have contacts with legal circles and with banks, there are two kinds of decisions. One kind of decision is in favour of consumers. I shall read the three points, which are in favour of consumers, which have entered into a foreign currency and three other points, in favour of the banks. I'll record them for the Minutes. It is through the primary decisions, not final, not irrevocable and not yet appealed. Positive decisions in favour of borrowers are: In one case the loan contract was declared null and void. Most cases were found to be abusive and therefore void, according to which payments of instalments must be made either in Swiss francs or in euros, on the basis of the exchange rate between the euro and the Swiss francs or payment dates. The third point in favour of the borrower: In one case it was considered that the renewal of the dose protection agreed at the time of the loan should be based on the same rate as the date on which the loan was granted. Decisions relating to and in favour of banks are - I always mean and insist first without appeal - the following: Firstly, the information was sufficient and therefore the principle of transparency has not been infringed. Secondly, the fluctuation in exchange rates is not subject to specific rules which can be explained to borrowers. There's always a question mark here. What borrower is sufficient to understand the loan contract, terms or explanation of what the loan sells to him? But this has been judged in court, that many are sufficient, many were not enough. The court has judged it. I'm not saying it, but I'm saying it's first-class decisions. Thirdly, the risks of these contracts could be seen in the light of the fact that the lessons of the joint experience are known to the median trader that the currency exchange rate is changing even at times that there is a great variation. It's well known, and I'll say an example without taking anyone's side. Greece is currently negotiating a fixed rate. We've got ISM loans floating. What does floating mean very simply? At some point there can be a 'braff' in the Euribor one night and where it is 1,5 to go 4.5. In other words, Greece's loan will be a red loan. I'll tell the budget tomorrow. It may blush the loan and we cannot repay it, because we have not taken into account the exchange rate or the change, because it is not provided for in the loan contract that we have with the ESM. Expected with the IMF. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] I shall conclude in thirty seconds, Mr President. A parentheses. The IMF because it has SDRs, has special driveing right, "special drawing rights" and is a currency basket, has a permanent exchange rate that plays with the euro every day. We're starting with 0.070 and it's now 0.98. If we hadn't bet and checked with a special hybrid product - and DPRK did well and did so and secured the Greek loan in exchange difference between SDR and euro - we would have lost 3 billion exchange rates from the IMF from 2010 until today. However, this is not the case with the public loans. Finally, in closing, we should tell all consumers that the code of conduct is being protected. This government has, I think, brought the laws, which make the rules of involvement at all levels. It must not be afraid to go to the bank and, in particular, banks knowing about the code of conduct, the directive, which is voted on, what the Greek Government is doing and what is going on in other markets, what is happening in other markets, all these loans are tiring them up, prolonging them on the basis of income criteria, and all citizens must go either alone or collectively claim a solution for their loans and the government will stand alongside them. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Finally, for the Mansion. Because I know that there can be a talk in the future and I will be watching it, I expect, Mr Minister, because we have not found the management elements of the new board, because we have given 245 million - it was not the responsibility of SYRIZA - ANEL - guarantees that have been lodged by the previous governments and the House at this time does not make any money, it does not have tax information and it owes, we have to insult what is going to happen with the House. If he gets any other loans on a state guarantee, I as Dimitris Kammenos, honestly tell you, I won't sign it. If he keeps losing money and doesn't have money for his payroll, he can't afford to be taxed. I'm giving tax information to the War Industry, because I have to make bullets, shells, or do the bibliids on the Metallurgical Epirus. But I cannot follow up on a 'hus' that lost 250,000, 000, new tax information. And we should be serious here, have a management check and predict the excessive burden of the Mansion in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, after Mr Saridis, I would like to speak as a parliamentary representative, because we have a parliamentary group if the rest are not in trouble.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u34	We agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u35	It has been agreed to speak three Members, then the State Secretary and then the Parliamentary Representatives. Mr Ioannis Saridis has the floor. Please, Mr Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Europe has been far too late. European Directive 17/2014, with which we are now called upon to harmonise Greek legislation, is very important. On this basis they lose their value the great "priced letters", what we still do not read, while we all know that that is where the traps are hidden. The finest letters are indeed required, first by those who sign them, to read them. This citizen's obligation does not change. However, what we are today legislating is that the author of the fine letter, who wrote it, also has responsibility for the fine letters. He is equally responsible from now on and the body with which the citizen is traded. The borrowers turned out to be unprotected by the "priced letters" and the public's confidence in the banks was badly hit when the impact of the crisis forced the borrowers to read for the first time and with great attention what they previously signed without reading them. I think we took our lesson as a society and as a citizens. We have rights as much as we take responsibility. And right here is the essence of European Directive 17/2014. In order for a citizen to take any responsibility and be obliged to cope with it, he must first know clearly and clearly what the importance of his decision is and have fully understood all the details of his commitment. This is a common obligation for both the citizen and the operators, with whom he is traded each time. The harmonization we are discussing is precisely what is going on in this respect. Yes, but there is no law ignorance, but that doesn't mean that it's the only problem for the citizen to understand what he's signing. It is a problem for the bank not only to explain to it, but also to assess the degree of understanding and ability of the candidate borrower to meet his obligations in the future and to do so in a responsible and responsible manner. Many of these issues have to do with the fact that they were not anticipated and that no sanctions were applied. How many banks would this law have had retroactive effect? How many of our fellow citizens would not have been at a dead end, if we had predicted that profit and shame were in need of a clear regulatory framework for control and separation, so as not to be confused and cause disastrous consequences? Ladies and gentlemen, European Directive 17/2014 is the clear answer the European people give as a whole to the phenomena of invasiveness, which allowed them to be in their necks with sixty-five thousand Greek families, sixty-five thousand in Greece who trusted the most famous Swiss franc but also hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens who have been lured from the strong prosperity climate that the banks have cultivated and maintained with ads for years and have agreed to give you loans to help you without, for consumer and not for development purposes. The banking system lost its orientation and moved the centre of gravity of its activity from saving and growth to strengthening consumption, with a view to achieving the plating prosperity of numbers. I close my suggestion, on the main issue of the draft law to be passed, on the point that, unfortunately, today's harmonisation has no retroactive effect - it should have - and therefore, the borrowers are not covered in a Swiss franc and we should cover them in the future. But I keep the promise of the new Minister, who gave us at second reading of the bill, that, in the context of the examination of the professional loan bill, he will try to bring for discussion a provision on the borrowers of the Swiss franc. Ladies and gentlemen, the withdrawal of Rule 46, which provided for the abolition of a 30% relief for those who are begging their vessels for the whole year in Greece, but also for the withdrawal of Article 43, which introduced a new obligation for building cooperatives, with a repetition of twelve months, were imposed by logic. And thankfully, the government at this point, within the committees, has acted responsibly. The removal of 30% would be the final blow to the concept of islands. The way in which Constantine Karamanlis once managed to protect the island is now the subject of a historical study, as it does not exist as a reality anymore. One of the victims of the crisis was islandity. At this point I would like to make the following comment: this afternoon, in this Chamber, we are discussing the harmonisation of Greek legislation with another important European directive, with which we promise incentives, without, of course, describing or defining them - we will see them this afternoon - but for the development of infrastructure in ports and in marinas, to strengthen the use of alternative fuels. What customers would these marinas and these ports have to have if we were to abolish this morning 30%, even when we are not forced to do so and to proceed with such a decision? I stress that our main argument with regard to certain considerations of unfair competition, which have been heard by those who have recommended this wrong provision, is the fact that this relief applies to everyone, regardless of nationality or flag. There is therefore no question of unfair competition. Madam Minister, you owe us an explanation for Article 49. We have repeatedly been placed in the committees. With Article 49 you ask the Greek Parliament to give asylum for another three years to members of the Capital Control Committee. I have asked you on several occasions in the committees, in the discussions we have been having, because not a year, why not two years and why you are setting it at three years. With what logic, what calculations did you make, give this extension for a whole three-year period? You told us that the members of this committee are working hard, overtime and are not rewarded. But no one questioned whether they were doing their job or whether they were being paid yes or not well. I asked you to explain how the Greek Government is thinking and asking Parliament today to proceed with this extension of suspension. Every decision, concerning the noose you have put to the Greek citizen, must be sufficiently explained and with what arguments you take from this step here. If you do not explain to us and continue to ignore our very serious question, we will have to review the attitude of the whole bill. Article 44 - with the current rather numbering 43 - after the withdrawal of the unacceptable article calling for tax information from the housing cooperatives - when they are trying to harmonise their statutes that we have placed within the committees - this new article is the result of the relevant decision by the European Commission in which Europe renounces that we were illegal when we gave 'COSCO' some tax relief in 2009. Now we are forced to legislate on the abolition of the exemptions and to ask for the money back. Of course, that's not the whole picture. I think the Greek Government has brought the courts to annul this decision of the European Commission. We are asking, in other words, to give back the money to 'COSCO'. Ladies and gentlemen, I personally considered it self-evident that one of the government would take responsibility for explaining to the Greeks what is happening. What should our fellow citizens conclude when they hear that the Greek Government has recourse to the European Court of Justice to annul a decision which obliges Cosco to pay? I stress that I have no intention of arguing against this very important investment for Piraeus and for Greece in general Chinese investment. On the contrary, I wonder what these people think about the way in which we deal with this investment over time. The messages sent by Greece to international markets continue to be negative. We constantly prove that it is true that anyone who tries to invest in Greece might get into trouble too badly. There are no easy investments in Greece in the way you are now legislating. From Emir of Qatar, who we are suing him with half the government, until his investment "COSCO", which we have questioned several times, to the investment in the Greek, which we still wonder what will happen if the Archaeological Service changes its mind, Greece continues to send negative signals at the same time as it needs the investments, at the same time that it has not been a substantial investment in the country for two years. Whoever invests in Greece is in trouble. You must therefore, as a government to explain to the Greek citizens what is happening in the case of the 'COSCO' tax exemptions and what the European Commission's decision on the investors concerned means. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, there are also some good points in this harmonisation of Directive 17/2014, which certainly do not fulfil the urgent requirement to be discussed by the procedure, which is also discussed by their presence in a bill of harmonisation with Community legislation clearly stumbles the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and goes against the spirit of the constitutional legislature. But these few positive points do not allow us to overlook them and not to stress them as a Centro Association. The extension of the insurance cover to Article 47 - probably 45 with the new numbering - on the waterways of the General Secretariat of Public Revenues, and the concession for for forty years of sports facilities and free spaces in the Municipality of Haiti are really two important issues that we will support. These two positive points cannot, however, cover the sloppyness - and we have said so before - with which the government is legislating. The articles on the CEEC, which you admit in the explanatory statement that you have been led by mistake, cannot be monitored. Spasmist actions on very serious issues. This lack of programming is also evident with the uncontrolled flow of amendments in this Chamber, in all bills. As far as the amendments are concerned, then: I am going to Amendment No 753 to Article 55 of the Bill on the Concert Hall of Music. How can we accept that people may not be paid to the Congregation of Music? Extension to extension. You are creating the impression that you are using workers as a pretext to extend and pay other things rather than the workers. We have asked the committees to give us with this amendment what it was about, what the payments are, the number, the amount by which they will be covered. We have asked you to bring us evidence and to prove to us that you are actually legislating in the name of the workers and in their interests. We must legislate in the public interest and defend the rights of our fellow citizens. How are the interests of the country served by Amendment No 754 and a specialist of 122 referred to in Article 56 for public rents? How can we convince the citizens that we care and try to eliminate waste, when we see a series of public buildings being wasteful and left to the mercy of violating behaviors and at the same time say that we are forced by amendment to pay a lot of money to rent and private property? This thing at some point has to end and it is solely the responsibility of this government which has been here for two years and has done nothing about this waste of public money. Regarding the amendment under number 755 and a special 123 entitled 'Completion of Article 6 of Law 4281/2014', clearly we want to resolve the issue of these people and get their pensions. Alas! However, it relates to a grant from the State budget of general government bodies to repay their overdue obligations. I cannot comment on anything other than that this is not the right way of managing the government's obligations. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would ask you to give me another minute and keep it from me. With regard to the new amendments, which you brought us - we did not put them into the bill - you are talking about amending the provisions of Articles 24, 25, 66, 69C, 69D of Law 4270/2014. For this amendment, for 756/124, it is sufficient to give you the main argument in the explanatory statement, 'to implement in the most effective way the reform of the budgetary system initiated by the adoption of the provisions of the above law'. This argument runs counter to the irresponsible decision to put this amendment in hand. Is it possible to come to us in the way in which such an amendment comes to us? How can you convince us that your aim is to implement the reform of the financial system in the most efficient way? What reform has been made and achieved with a late amendment? Is it possible to want to make a state law at the last minute a few dozen pages of provisions and at the same time to tell us that you will be more effective in this way? You don't convince anyone. The same is true of the second extremely insulting amendment of 759 and a special 125. Only its title is an answer to each potential investor in the country. We have stressed you repeatedly and with every tone that without a stable tax system of investors they will not come. And you, in response to our concerns, bring us a late amendment, 'Amendments to the Code of Taxation, the Code of Income Tax', and you dare to speak of allegedly motivated and business transformations. Handwriting! This is a parliamentary presence, frankly, for pity! Regardless of the fact that the Centroon Union would support this bill at first, it had to be expressed as expressed, because that is the reality, that is the truth. And from this Step by the Centro Association, you will only hear the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u38	Mr President, can I make a point of order for a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u39	Yes, Mr. Bourra, if you want to make a point of order, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u40	And in order to make it easier for all of us in our positions and in secondary terms, I would like to say that we have told the Minister when some of the amendments were tabled by the committee and incorporated as articles, that they pass under the pretext that the ministers themselves will come to explain. I am referring, for example, to the amendment relating to the Ministry of Labour and Mrs Ahtsoglou. That's the first. Secondly, with regard to the two amendments tabled today, one - if I am not wrong - refers to Mrs Gerovas, the Ministry of Administrative Reform and the other I do not know which ministry she refers to. Okay, that's where it's covered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u41	They are not our amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u42	We cannot stand on a multi-page text - and my colleague said just now - without having the Minister in charge. I've never been able to do that. The Ministers are coming, otherwise the amendments are not accepted. The Minister, who is responsible, did not accept - and he cannot accept - the amendments. The Minister responsible must come to us to explain the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u43	It's usually done, Mr. Bourra.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u44	Not when I talk...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u45	You're welcome. It's usually done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u46	Yeah, but it can't be right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u48	Yes, Mrs. Papanaceu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u49	With regard to the amendment adopted to the committees, which supplements Article 6 of Law 4281/2014, which is the first signatory to Mrs Ahtsoglou, it is an amendment concerning the Ministry of Finance. The law is of the Ministry of Finance. In that sense, the signature was just based on the hierarchy of the ministries. It is also Mr Tsakalotos and Mr Juliarakis who sign the relevant amendment. For the others, it's still the same. These are amendments of laws, articles of laws that have to do...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u50	There's no layout...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u51	Usually the ministers come...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u52	Mr President, because the Minister is new and justifiable...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Bourra, let me interrupt you. The Ministers usually come and support their amendments. If, however, the State Secretary or Minister can support the amendment, he can do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u54	He doesn't have the...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u55	He has the ability.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u56	I'm sorry, is it financial?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u57	It's economic.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u58	Is it? Because we have a budget burden. But why did we ask? This is a very serious and positive issue. We want the Minister responsible to give us more information, which we do not know, namely how much pensions are. The Minister must come. She can't come.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u59	This can be done in the context of control and so on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u60	Likewise, this amendment - not to say a number, has been mentioned before by my colleague - is a multi-speaking amendment and refers to the Ministry of Administrative Reform. There is no bill that the Minister of Finance does not sign, because at the end of the day, almost all the legislation creates a financial result. That's why I'm asking them to come. The debate is closed at 12.30 p.m. and the Bureau said that the sitting would be closed at 14.00 p.m. to 14.30 p.m. They have to be here now before we get there.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u61	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u62	Mr Bourraud, the three amendments have already been accepted in committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u63	And for her we asked - are in the Minutes - to come...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u64	The remaining ones are the Ministry of Finance, i.e. they are part of the finance ministers. So Mrs. Papanatsiou is in charge of taking a position.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u65	Can he analyse us with the amendment from the Ministry of Administrative Reform? I want to understand it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u66	I'll tell you now. Mr President, would you like me to say it now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u67	All right, you have the floor, Mrs. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u68	Mr President, when the turn comes, he can speak, because now he's going to...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u69	Now why are we doing this like this, Mr President? I've asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u70	New Democracy has formally called for the ministers to come. The Minister would like to see the amendments put forward and support them. Please have the floor, Mrs. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u71	This amendment is, in principle, an amendment which has to do with the basic law on public accounting, L.4270/2014. The aim of those provisions is to facilitate the process of transferring and transferring powers from financial control services to the financial services of each specific body - it is an obligation arising from Law4336/2015 - and not to cause delays in the procedures for payment of public expenditure. The proposed provision extends the scope of the authorisation of the Heads of Finance Ministries and other bodies of the General Government to their subordinate bodies in order to make it possible to exercise their powers more effectively. Authorization shall be granted to cover expenditure incurred by regional departments of Ministries, Independent Authorities, the Court of Auditors, the Legal Council of State and the Presidency of the Republic. The possibility of undertaking certain categories of expenditure relating to the last two months of the year against budget appropriations for the following financial year is abolished, since various interpretative difficulties have arisen in the implementation of this provision. We have also seen in the previous amendment that this has meant that we cannot pay certain public service obligations to third parties and thus do not have to pay the costs of the legally provided services. In summary, it is an arrangement that attempts to resolve organisational issues in the context of the transfer and distribution of the powers of financial control services in the specificly defined organic units of Ministries and other bodies of the general government. And here, Mr President, I would also like to put forward a legislative improvement concerning this amendment. Paragraph 3b is replaced by the following: Paragraph 9 of Article 66 of Law 4270/2014, as well as paragraph 5 of Article 9 of Presidential Decree 80/2016 ‘Receiving obligations by authorising officers’ (A.145) are repealed. The validity of paragraphs 1, 2 and 3a shall start from 1-1-2017, and the validity of paragraph 3b shall start with the publication of this law.’ I still have a legal improvement. It's good to hear it now. It is after the proposal of the Consumers' Counselor for the five days that he has asked to have the contracts signed at the hands of the borrower. In Article 13(8), the words ‘... a copy of the draft credit agreement’ shall be replaced by ‘... a copy binding on the creditor of a draft credit agreement’.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u72	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u73	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u74	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u75	They are three, four speakers and the parliamentary representatives. We would like you to say who will speak and what order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u76	Look, the order agreed is the three Members, the Minister and then the Parliamentary Representatives. However, Mr Loverdos has asked for purely personal reasons to precede. And it will precede either after a congressman or now. When do you want to?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Loverdo, can Members speak first?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u78	I'm not gonna make it, partner.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u79	To speak first, a Member of Parliament and then you. Mr. Armalene has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, first of all, ironhead. Good power. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to talk about the whole bill. I will speak only about retired Article 46, which I think has been withdrawn. I am going to talk about this because it has a very important importance both for island Greece and for the maritime tourism of our country. I therefore think that this bill, as I said, has been withdrawn, because there has not been the complete preparation required by both the relevant ministries, namely the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Shipping. Obviously the withdrawn article wanted to harmonise - and that will, of course, be the next time - national VAT legislation with the corresponding European directive. This article included the abolition of exemptions from fishing taxes other than spongiform fishermen. It also included the abolition of the 30% discount at the end of stay and ships for ships which are permanently berthed on Greek territory. There is, of course, one question - and the representatives of the shipowners in the committee have explained it - about the concept of 'open sea', namely, 'open sea' in the six thousand islands of the archipelago and, more generally, the seas of our country. This has to do with the ferry interconnection of the Greek islands with Piraeus, but also with the other large ports. So it's very nicely retired. I would say that the government in the name of islands, in the study of the new provision that it will bring, must exhaust all the favourable margins that have been gained by other countries - and I will say below - for both Greek vessels and Greek fishing, but also for marine tourism in the country which is an important part of the country's tourism development. But I would like to see a little prehistoric here. At that time, the European Economic Community, in 1977, first appeared as VAT. In Greece, VAT was introduced in 1987. Since 1987, about thirty years ago, no government - neither PASOK nor the New Democracy - has been involved in establishing a special regime for the transport of goods and persons in island Greece. Contrary to what our country has done, Portugal has taken care of the Azores and Madeira - two islands of its own - to treat the status as international transport. And the question is: why did Greece, namely its governments, not care for a hundred and seventeen inhabited islands to claim a special status, as Portugal has achieved? And not just that. Since 2012, the then PASOK and New Democracy governments have again taken no care of a recommendation from the European Union for harmonisation. So it seems to us unthinkable how our governments have, over time, left to his fate such a serious issue as the VAT exemption for fuels for a productive sector such as marine fishermen, but how they have also left to his fate this whole issue of maritime connections with Greece as a whole. However, there is another serious issue concerning the fee for recreational boats and small boats. I would therefore like to inform you that since the introduction of this fee with Law 4211/2013 on the Government of Samaras - Venizelos, no single euro has been collected. What for? For two reasons: firstly, the General Secretariat of Public Revenue has not developed the necessary electronic system and secondly, because there have been objections that the end of voyages is contrary to the law of the sea. Already, from the returning political leadership of the Ministry of Shipping, Minister Dritsa, a new arrangement for the collection, at last, of the end of what will be an important revenue for the Greek public. Furthermore, this provision also has the agreement of the operators, for example, of the Greek Shipowners' Association of Tourism, which came to the committee and presented to us its agreement after consulting the previous political leadership of the Ministry of Shipping on the finalization of the provision. I therefore believe that there is room to see this issue, which is very serious for the whole island country and for maritime tourism. And I would say, personally, that we could still - since it is not a prerequisite for memoranda - get rid of all the margins and even recourse to the European Court of Justice. As for the "depressing government that has to leave immediately" that Mr Maniotis told us before, I would say that this state-of-the-art centre-left space will be good for him first to find his leader and step-by-step and then require our Government to leave. In any case, this government, in these two years, has been able to reach the point where we have arrived and now opens the tunnel. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. The second assessment, ladies and gentlemen, will be closed. And, of course, with regard to what has been said, we will be absent at the Conference of Finance Ministers of the European countries with the IMF on Friday, I would inform you that this is an informal body, the Washington Group, which consists of the Finance Ministers of the four largest countries of the European Union - France, Italy, Spain and Germany - which has been meeting for some time. This sitting is not an extraordinary sitting. Obviously, the Greek issue will also be discussed in the run-up to the Eurogroup on 5 December and the next developments that await us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u81	Thank you. Parliamentary spokesman for the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR, Mr Loverdos, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express on behalf of the Democratic Alliance our grief at the loss of Kostis Stefanopoulou, a loss of support for the country at these difficult times. I remember - perhaps the older ones will remember - at that time when Greece was discussing the need to renew the political scene, to leave the 'dinosaurus', as the politicians of the holodeck of Andreas Papandreou or Constantine Karamanlis called. And they left, but we went through a generation of the indifferences of politics, a generation of stakeholders only for themselves. And we paid her a lot for this new band of politicians. Kostis Stefanopoulou therefore passed in the history of the Greek nation as a true model of public man. As far as the directive is concerned, which we incorporate, I call for Mr Maniotis to be put in place. Before I come to my point, I would also like to welcome you, Minister, and wish you a success. I should like to raise the first point, which, as a Parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Independence, concerns our foreign policy and our big issues. Yesterday, in addition to Erdogan's position on the International Treaty of Lausanne, we had what Albanian Prime Minister Rama said in an interview with the SCAI. Other people, other countries, same attitude to Greece. That is what I am keeping and that is what I want to comment on with two, three arguments. As far as the Turkish Prime Minister's positions are concerned, this issue was published in Greece around noon - the briefing of the representative of the Government. The government's representative showed up not to know about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u83	The government's representative has answered today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u84	I'm not standing on the government's representative who you want to support, Mr. Manda. I've done it before you, talking about a new man that the State Department should have informed him. Since they have multiplyed the examples of the positions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the information given to the rest of the government, I would like to comment here on the fact that there is at least a clear lack of information in this House about the information issues of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Here, ladies and gentlemen, there is also one issue. Isn't our embassy working in Ankara? It's working. Are the foreign ministry's relations with our Ankara embassy? I guess it is. It's always been. But what's going on? What is happening and we have examples of problems in this communication and problems that exist, as demonstrated yesterday, and in communication between government officials? We have held the most serious position on foreign policy for two years now. It is rare that we have made public statements and it is exemplary that our attitude in the Foreign Policy Council, as well as in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, was exemplary when we were in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We did, in fact, have a statement by a SYRIZA senior official just before the 2015 elections, that he does not recognize the expression of the status quo as he had said at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We had a relentless war with prostitute designations and so on. We are not returning these practices, because it is at the expense of the interests of the country, and for two years we have been holding a consistent stand for counter-population, for our country's support above all. But there's a limit. Is that how you sleep, ladies and gentlemen of the government? Should we wake you up with our criticism? What's going on here? It is unprecedented what is heard at the expense of the country. He was the Turkish President, Mr Erdogan, and we also acquired Mr Rama the Prime Minister of Albania. What's going on?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u85	Come on, de!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u86	Are you showing any weakness?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u87	Is that it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u88	Do you show any weakness and everyone says that he spent decades in mind, but he didn't say so? What's going on here? Is this the posture of counterpopulation that sleeps you? Do you want to criticise these issues too? We are trying to be very pitiful in criticising. A meeting was held behind the Committee on Foreign Affairs' doors with the Minister for Foreign Affairs on Friday and there was no leak from anyone. Against this - and we heard what the Minister said there - do you react with abuse of our confidence? What are you doing? If the citizen sees his government not being aware of foreign policy issues, as it emerged yesterday...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u89	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u90	Mr Manda, I say this again: it would be unfair to turn the Opposition to the ten-day Minister, a new child. There's another matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u91	He gave an explanation. That's what I want to tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u92	What will the citizen do if he sees you in foreign policy? What's he gonna do? How does he have to react? And we heard SYRIZA's secretary this morning in a media media saying that these issues must be dealt with seriously. Does he give us advice too? You need to understand a little that you are the government of the Hellenic Republic. You're not playing and you're not in your house. You are in the area that the sovereign people have sent you to rule and defend their interests. You don't! It's obvious you don't. We are, however, concerned. And it is certain that this two-year attitude will be re-examined. We will rethink that, in this way, a serious counter-population, mildly, we do not have the government that understands it, understands it and can help it. Let us not forget that, as the last indication of our goodwill, we have not intervened these days on the Cyprus issue. There are issues on which we could have intervened and matters on which you would not have avoided warfare when you were opposition. Well, to be serious and to explain: the consistent opposition to take it as a pretext, that Greek democracy has political forces consistently. Do not understand it as weakness. Two years later, mind and explain to the Greek people what is happening. However, the convergence of the National Foreign Policy Council would not have been meaningful at this juncture. As far as the issues dealt with by amendments are concerned: I want to make a reference to the Congregation of Music and to the amendment in question. Madam Minister, will you defend her or come from Culture?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u93	Who are you talking about now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u94	For the amendment to the Music Hall.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u95	We have already been through the committees.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u96	I know, yeah. It is a problem, however, for the new Minister for Culture not to be here to defend the amendment he signs with the Ministry of Finance, but it concerns the Ministry of Culture and Mrs Connordos also signs. Because, if he came here, he would live up to the issues that exist around the Big Music issue and for which we, too, have shown a consistent stand, even when your government partner did not vote for you and we voted for you for this. Ladies and gentlemen, we are bringing an amendment to the House in 2013 to allow the Grand Music Agency to take money and not to confiscate these. We are bringing an amendment in 2013 to ensure that there is no need for insurance and tax information on the part of Megaron. We bring this back in 2014, it comes back in 2015 and because it would come back in 2016, the Minister is finally taking the initiative - which would have been completed in Tasula, but the government has fallen - and Mr Baltas brings in, with courage, a regulation on the subject. We vote for it, your government partner, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA does not vote for it, and it goes through with our vote. I ask Mr Balta two questions, in a spirit of cooperation, and I say'so as you do, you will need a new amendment'. Because from the General Accounting Office of the State there was an interpretation of Mr Baltas's law and did not include in his regulations, as far as the debts of the Grand Musician were concerned, and the debts before 2012, while the Parliament's disposal, the historical interpretation of the law, is that all the debts of the Grand Music would be regulated in this way. And for these years, which the General Accounting Office of the State has misused, it has found that they are not regulated, that the Congregation of Music cannot be financed without confiscation of funding, because it needs insurance and tax information. Again. And there's an amendment coming here, like that of 2013. I hope that the new Minister will listen or be informed. I ask you, Minister, since you will support the law, I ask and I apologise that I do so, but you said that you would support it - why bring this amendment today, ladies and gentlemen, until February, and then you have to come back? Why don't you bring an amendment to extend the arrangements - which the law so wanted to do, your law - and before 2012, to close the issue, and bring an amendment for two months? So we can have the same conversation back here? Is that practical? Furthermore, since we are discussing the Music House, Minister, do you intend to organize distractions in order to make it easier for you to use the focal points of culture for this? That sounds like it. It also sounds like three nurses who the Balta Law omitted to take care of them, he wants - he says - the administration to change them and bring three of her own nurses. That sounds like it. The questions of the staff of the Congregation of Music, Madam Minister, have become the beginning of a solution to the problem. That's what most of us agreed on here. And finally, by perpetuating these practices, what is accomplished? The only thing that has been done since the February 2016 adjustment is the reduction of staff pay. You were only making this change, even though you brought a total law in February 2016. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, with your tolerance, I would like two more minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a comment on the amendment of about 850 million, carried over for the needs of the insurance system, especially the granting of pensions to young pensioners. He said "good" Mr Maniatis said that "we are with the pensioners". We'll support this. But as a government and a majority - Mr Manda, will you take the floor - did you not say that you solved the insurance a few months ago? Didn't you bring the insurance solution here? Didn't you make any legislative intervention? Aren't we opposed to this House? Didn't you claim that you closed the insurance with his settlement? What's this right here? What transfer is that? Where are these removed to be given there? What are the arrangements within the budget, so that this money can be made available for this purpose? Is this a confession of your bankruptcy? It doesn't surprise us that you change the law of insurance or fill it in every month. We remember changes that you celebrated here that you kept provisions, regulations favourable to young workers and future pensioners, and that is what you told the majority Members that you were doing something. Ten days after the insurance vote you took them back. We're not curious about the tricks you're doing. But this is close to EUR 1 billion. What transfer is this? Do you have sufficient answers? And since you are a State Secretary for Finance, why don't you tell us why this new round of delay in investing in Greek? We read for four months a new delay. Why? This is where my colleague from the majority, Mr Kammenos, told me a moment ago that the buses are still parked there. The train station hasn't left the room. What's going on and we have a new round of delays? Do you have any explanations to give? Because our minds go a little worse after all. A year and a half behind so-called negotiations on the new Convention! We would have works from June 2016 there. And now new rounds on other issues, which we do not know. Ladies and gentlemen, this has not been closed. Four months' delay, he says, on signature. Then we have a presiding order. This is where it begins to take place after the end of the parliamentary term, elected by Parliament in September 2015. I think your failure at all levels is now obvious. And, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, who have the courage to speak of light at the bottom of the tunnel, what light is that? Is it sunlight or the light coming to you? I think the second one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u97	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-eight students and students and three educational attendants from the 5th Elementary School of Brussels. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] On the occasion of Mr. Loverdos commemorated Kostis Stefanopoulou, I consider it my duty, for there to be also in the Minutes of the House, and I address also to the Parliamentary Representatives, Mr. Dendias, who is a distinguished legal officer, Mr. Mantas, who is not a legal doctor, but is an appropriate doctor and Mr. Loverdos, who is a professor of Constitutional Law, to convey them that Kostis Stefanopoulou was in front of a huge constitutional problem when the Prime Minister at the time, Andreas Papandreou, hospitalized in the "society" was inaugurated and no one could give an opinion that he could then return not as a Prime Minister but as a human in life. So the country had a constitutional vacuum. Stephanopoulos didn't know what to do. He came and asked us doctors, I mean, tell him what to do in medical terms. So he was asking: do you predict that the Prime Minister will resuscitate, can he carry out his duties? Call who? The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) supports the Commission's proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such In America, as you know, the Constitution provides that even when the President of America is drugged, the Vice-President at the time of the surgery takes office as President, because that is where he is faced with problems of nuclear war. We did not, of course, have such a problem with nuclear war here. But we had, after a few days, if you remember, the Imia. Did you imagine the Imia would happen a few days ago? Who could make a decision and such a decision that is decisive for the country? So I say this because they have to take this into account in view of the change in the constitution. There's a constitutional vacuum. Kostis Stefanopoulou, then, so as not to be long enough, took responsibility for him, and we really had a hard time not to say days to see what's going to happen. There was a dead end. And I'm recording that, so there's a story. Mr. Brutsis now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, I have waited today for the meeting, an amendment which was discussed in committee and incorporated into the law, for the 859 million, to make the Minister Mrs Ahtsoglou come to Parliament inform the House of the time-limits, what the Ministry's mechanisms are and what preparations are being made. I think it did not come for reasons of consciousness, because she probably knew that she would deal with relentless questions, which are about topicality, and it is about negotiating with work and with her confession, the honesty I would say, that the SYRIZA - ANEL as a government have an absolute responsibility for two years of delay in labour issues and their failure to resolve them. They have an absolute responsibility for reducing the wages of workers. They have the ultimate responsibility that the strong de-escalation trend has braked and slowed down. They have an absolute responsibility for the picture of the labour market, which, for the first time in the two years of SYRIZA - ANEL, is a red labour market. In other words, flexible forms of employment dominate, for the first time in the history of the labour market, completely full-time. This is the SYRIZA - ANEL project, and that is why the Minister is not present today - not by her absence, in honour - of her first announcement the day before yesterday - the first one to make out as a press release - is a statement that I am saying now, gentlemen of SYRIZA. He admits it's SYRIZA's mistake and what's happening today. Because in her first announcement to the Ministry, what's she doing? It now seeks and seeks in the framework of the negotiation to come to the agreement I made with Vassilis Kegeroglu in Geneva on 30-9-2014. We made a deal with all the social partners, with the aegis of the ILO. All the social partners, workers and employers participated. And of course I remind you of what you are forgetting, Minister, and you too. You - I don't know - did you erase your tweet? I don't know. However, at least what SYRIZA officially said about the negotiation of labour relations was the following: an increase in the minimum wage to EUR 751; the elimination of flexible forms of employment; the doubling of the unemployment benefit to double unemployed and the return of the veto - which I abolished - this unacceptable, third-world veto, a pathogen responsible for thousands of lost jobs, and again the Minister. That's what you said. What does the government say today? You went to a negotiation. Did you defend these? None of this has been defended. And you went and you're supposed to leak about leaving the veto. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, I am tabling it in the Minutes and for the journalists, who ignore it, the FEK, which, after forty years, has been the first to have this pathogen and the distortion of our country's labour market system, has no longer had it. It is not the Minister who decides, as he has done for forty years, whether or not collective redundancies are allowed. It was a distortion that cost us the closure of thousands of businesses. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned FEC, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] With regard to the second point which I have just mentioned, the honest and honest confession made by Mrs Ahtsoglou, but which, on the one hand, is honest and honest, but on the other hand recognises the responsibilities of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL for all the hardships on the labour market in these two years, and because the evaluation has not been closed for all the rest. I therefore agree with the agreement reached in Geneva on 30 September, which SYRIZA now invokes as the last line of defence. I am presenting it, Minister, to give it to your counterpart, the Minister, who knows and is afflicted with it. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And now I go from now on: ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you of the sincerity that I always have on these issues. Of course we couldn't hear from people because SYRIZA's populism and inadmissible, false promises prevailed. Now that the dust of populism has fallen and the world is listening to us, I will tell you that what the government is seeking today on the issue of outstanding pensions, would have been solved for a year and at the end of 2015, was scheduled with the 'ATLAS' system, which remains electronically registered. We have recorded - ladies and gentlemen, I want you to listen to the number - the insurance CV, which is an innovation, one of the biggest reforms we have had, without paying a single euro for the public, with a zero euro. Only by electronic recording and effort, friendly and political initiative, we have recorded 22.8 billion days of insurance and have recorded electronically over the past twenty-one years. What does that mean? It means that if, with the programming we had, an effort was made for 2015, the other ten years would be recorded and the pension would come out in one day. With mathematical certainty there the next administration of the Ministry of Labour's leadership will soon end up, because it is pathetic not to give the pensioner a day while we can. But Mr Katrugalos' idealism - because it is a matter of idealism - has not only stopped the matter, but has braked it, Mr Manda. The opacity and darkness and the middle ages braked it. That's what they brought to the Ministry of Labour. As also stopped the 'HLIOS' system, the biggest reform of the insurance system, which we mapped it, which we defeated the'monkey' pensions, which each Member would see every month mapping of the insurance with precision cent. Mr. Katrugalos has stopped it since August 2015, so that the reductions in SYRIZA do not appear. This is the Left! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. But what now means the 859 million, which we welcome? The provision is positive and we will vote on it. But in practice it means and confirms what has been said before, that the insurance is on the "air". The promises of SYRIZA and the government that the insurance was solved after the resolution in May 2016 confirm that the 859 million people come from the dues that go to the debt. They are out of budgetary revenue, that is, those that are defined to pay pensions, and income from the insurance funds. So there's more to it that goes to debt. In other words, the 859 million will again be paid by the Greek people, which means that the issue of insurance and insurance has not been resolved, despite the fact that these 859 million are coming, will remain open. There's a matter. The completion of this repayment of the pension deadlines requires organisation. In order for the 859 million to be allocated and allocated, the Ministry of Labour should be organized on a very correct basis, so that pensions can come out quickly, because there is a timetable and an end to payment. What does that mean? It means that Mrs Ahtsoglou should respond very quickly to the pending ministerial decision of the law and organise teams at the Ministry of Labour that issue pensions. Question: Is there a precedent? Sure. We also took the single issue and gave EUR 3.1 billion and ninety-seven thousand singles, but we did it and paid by the end of 2013. Be careful, because it's a cubit very difficult for the Ministry and you have to do it - with information I have - by October 2017. If he doesn't, the money is back. I believe and wish you succeed. I believe and hope that this will be completed and acted. We are voting for the provision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, too. Mr Panagiotaros, Member of the Golden Dawn, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. We are seeing a bill, which has come for discussion today, which ensures banks, large multinationals, the sins of the past go once again, in an indirect or direct way, to cover for borrowers, in essence, nothing at all. Unfortunately, we see the hypocrisy of the rulers, the current and the previous ones, who act as ordinances of the lame bankers. We say this because - we will repeat this once again - when there are thousands of final court rulings in favour of borrowers for all kinds of loans - we are not talking about the Katseli law, to which someone is subject for humanitarian reasons and the debate on its problem will take place some years later, we are talking about all kinds of loans - according to Article 95 of the Constitution, paragraph 5, clearly stipulates that court rulings should be automatically accepted and implemented by the administration, meaning the government or the State and others. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Brutsi, if you'd like, a little lower. Mr President, the well in the back seat.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u101	Please, Mr. Brutsi, Mr. Loverdo, a little quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u102	I repeat that if you applied Article 95 of the Constitution, it would solve your hands. And there should not be millions of our fellow citizens in this juncture, in this size of bankers and politicians who serve them, but be able to breathe in order to move on with their lives. All for the bankers, then! At the same time, you regulate the huge debts of bankrupt municipalities. For those who do not know, arrangements were made by the Greek state in three municipalities. The Municipality of Florida, which is the municipality that has received hundreds of millions of euros, billions as compensatory benefits for the Ano Liosian landfill - where we say in the Florida - nonetheless has a five hundred million euros of debts and has made a regulation, please, which will pay it back to two thousand hundred and twenty-nine years. And simple Greek citizens, small and medium-sized, please ask to be subjected to the thirty-six instalments of PPC or the state to throw them out and allow hundreds of doses to the free professionals and everyone who owes money to the Greek State! There are two other municipalities, the Municipality of Piraeus, which will pay back in thirteen years, if I am not mistaken, and the Municipality of Amarousios, which will pay back in just sixty-sixty-six years. At the same time, they confiscate the properties of our compatriots, the various free professionals, the small and medium-sized enterprises, for much smaller amounts or the municipalities for 400, 500 or 600 euros. How irony! What a humiliation! At the same time as you are doing all this, you are bringing back an amendment here to recharge the Greek people for the many bankrupt Concert Hall of Music, this monument of innocence, this monument that charged the Greek state, the Greek citizens with hundreds of millions of euros, with sea-loving unpaid, and which, when they collapsed, took the state into its own mind, to continue to pay for it and anything else. Really, you gave the "fillets" against a lentil plate. The more the debts of the Concert Musician, for so much about you gave the entire port of Piraeus and more while you could facilitate, I repeat, the borrowers of Swiss francs. As our rapporteur, Mr Germenis, has said, in fact, sent a letter to the committee saying that all those who had entered into a loan in a Swiss franc, rather than henceforth, should be subject to the law retroactively. That's right. If he wanted the Greek state, he could have facilitated all these groups of citizens, but he does not, quite simply because he is not interested in Greek citizens. At the same time, we repeat, it could make free professionals easier. Because we now read that you are preparing to bring a bill at some point, with the consent of lenders, so that there is a debt cut not for small and medium-sized enterprises, but for very large companies, such as "CARREFOUR" and others. But if you don't support the small and medium-sized ones that are the real pillars of an economy, then who will you support? The various multinationals, who go and come, who can leave or change their seats and do anything? You are very wrong in everything that is happening right now in our homeland, but also in the whole world. At last open your eyes, even at this late hour. Try to break your ties if you know how. Because you may like these bonds and the positions that keep you in these bonds. The whole world is changing. The new President of the United States has announced that he will abolish these major trade agreements, the so-called 'TTP', with the Asian countries and the Pacific countries, and as you can see it will denounce and will not apply from what it looks like the famous TTIP that you, with your hands and feet, even though you say otherwise, will vote on it. People are changing. Next to us, the President of Turkey, Erdogan, is directly questioning - and these are not graphics - the Treaty of Lausanne, the Montreal Treaty. You, instead of opposing the Treaty of Serbs or other things, prepare yourself, make no official announcements anymore. The ministry is pulling them off late after everyone else has got out. Turkey in two years receives fifth generation aircraft, F35 and you have remained with F16 or with Vietnam war aircraft or with Fantom and you do absolutely nothing. And of course you do not look at suitable solutions, such as supplying aircraft from Russia on very favourable terms, because Russia is our strategic enemy and we should remain here and there, slaves attached to other tanks, but we should not be guaranteed in any way. We see that even Albanians, cockroaches have awakened, questioned you, humiliated you every day. Now, apart from the Chemistes, they also raise issues about the Ionian and a lot of issues, and you do nothing but smile and think that's how you can keep things. As many times as the President of the Republic says that there are conditions and must be respected, the reality detracts from him. If we don't take our measures, one day we'll be surprised and we won't be able to do anything. We see that the world is changing, multiplely and diversely. You insist on the embargo against Russia. Only today are statistics on tourism in September and October. The British with Brexit and the Russians with the embargo have increased revenue for the Greek state, and yet you are insisting on tragic practices. Even the Archbishop of England made statements about this disgrace that is happening with our country, with this economic "danglerism". Who? The Archbishop of England and here none of our people speak. The whole political system is a good thing to convince us that it is a one-way road to remain in the euro, to remain in the European Union, to vote for memoranda as the fourth to come in a few days, which, whatever you do, you cannot avoid. The solution is one so that the Greek people can finally breathe. Accounting control of debt, debt write-off, mortgage claim, primary production, defence of all sacrifices, Greek worker and Greek products. Not trying in every way, through various NGOs through "humanist" situations, to want to de and well bring here hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants, racials, other religions, Muslims, jihadists, to be plucked down here to the detriment of Greek citizens. Back to national currency, coordinates and organized and we are saved. Because, as Xenophon said, "if you want to subdue someone, let him be poor." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u103	Thank you. The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Papanatsiou, has the floor for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u104	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the point of the honourable Member's report. Loverdo and Brutsis to the new Minister for Labour, I would like to say that the power of young people, whom we trust, is very important, which is why they are all concerned with the statements made by the new Minister. We trust young people, as well as Mrs Ahtsioglou and Mr Janakopoulos. They will do their job and the government will do its job. With regard to some of the issues that Mr Maniotis referred to about the Washington Group, I shall not go further. Mr. Armachene was mentioned, so I don't repeat myself, because I have enough other things to say. On the national issues raised by Mr Loverdos. First of all, the Government spokesman could not have confirmed the news, and that is why he did not refer to the news. From there on, the Foreign Ministry's statements are clear. In the re-examination repeatedly formulated by the Turkish leadership, Greece opposes its commitment to ensuring international legitimacy, peace and stability. Declarations of questioning the Treaty of Lausanne are unacceptable. This is the position of the Greek Government - expressed everywhere - on national issues. We can't play games. Let's all be careful. Turning now to the issues of the bill, I would first like to thank the quality and level of the debate on the committees by all the rapporteurs and Members who attended. We have listened carefully to both the actors and the rapporteurs of the Opposition, and we will take note of their comments, considering their possibility of applying them either in the immediate or indirect future. This draft law harmonises Greek legislation with Directive 2014/4/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 February 2014 on credit agreements for consumers of residential immovable property and amending Directive 2008. This harmonisation was characterized as positive by almost all the parties in the opposition, as well as by those in the committee. This bill is an incorporation of a regulation aimed at protecting borrowers, a market that was unable to regulate itself, creating problems for borrowers and the economy in general, problems that, as we know, were created as a result of the global financial crisis. It effectively abolishes the finest letters from credit contracts and goes on to inform and protect the consumer. For the first time, we have a directive with binding content on mortgage lending contracts, a directive which provides for penalties for offenders, effectively protects consumers. This is particularly important for the Greek market, because there has so far been no such regulation in Greek legislation. The only thing that existed was the Code of Conduct of the Bank of Greece, which, being not binding, did not provide for sanctions and therefore led to a blank letter, leaving the borrowers essentially unprotected. As far as the second part of the bill, for which we have been detailed in committee, is concerned, it is intended to tackle chronic problems of the Greek economy and regulate injustices that have either been presented in recent years or have not been corrected by previous governments. For example, Article 44 on State aid transparency effectively strengthens control so that there is no blurred landscape and no shadow. In addition, Article 46 enables the Legal Board of the State to delegate legal or technical experts to arbitration tribunals. This is particularly important, since it is often a phenomenon in international arbitrators to require the presentation of expertise over a very short period of time, of ten days. It is clear that these times make it impossible for the usual procedure for an expert to be carried out, so that the country is in danger of being presented to these courts effectively unprepared, which would have an unreasonable budgetary cost, in the event of our condemnation of hundreds of millions of millions of dollars, and would therefore be a different order of magnitude from the cost of the expert's own. With regard to the issue of foreign currency loans, which were heard by the rapporteurs of the opposition parties, Article 22 of this bill also provides for the credit agreement to be accompanied throughout it by a financial instrument to compensate for foreign exchange risk. On the issue of loans in a Swiss franc, it is an issue which does not concern this harmonisation with the directive and will be dealt with in order to find a solution to a future draft law. We have also made a commitment to the committees that we will see it in the future. Also, with regard to the proposals put forward by the Consumers' Counsel, they are already being examined by the relevant departments. One of his proposals was accepted for the five days. As far as the rest of the legislation is concerned, we will be able to bring in the necessary amendments. As for the Congregation of Music, to which Mr Loverdos referred. This is a regulation granting discharge to the Athens Concert Hall for tax and insurance information. It does not really have to do with all the issues Mr Loverdos raised. The exemption is temporary, i.e. from the entry into force of the provision until the end of February 2017. Here I would like to mention that a management check has already been set for the Congregation of Music in October 2016. In the same limited period, until the end of February 2017, no compensation may be made against the Athens Concert Hall and the administrative or enforcement acts shall be suspended, as well as any insurance or insurance measure. The proposed arrangement facilitates the continued operation of the Continuing Music Continuation, by allowing the recovery of the State grant or other amounts due from third parties to allow the payment of the employees' wages and the service of the contractual obligations in Greece and abroad. It is understood that the regulation does not entail the exemption of the Athens Concert Hall from the obligation to comply with its tax and insurance obligations. As regards Article 56, the promotion of this arrangement concerns rent costs for buildings housed by central government entities, which have become redundant and have not been paid mainly due to the adoption of the new Ministries' agencies in the last quarter of 2014 and their subsequent restructuring. For the same reason, credit transfers have been delayed and the budgetary provisions for overcompensation have therefore not been complied with. The commitments shall be committed at the beginning of the financial year for the whole of the year, with tables drawn up by authorising officers under the relevant credit agreements and in accordance with the provisions on public accountancy, commitment decision, existence and commitment of the credit. The proposed provision facilitates the payment of the beneficiaries, contributes to avoiding the involvement of the Greek State in relevant judicial disputes and strengthens the confidence of the public creditors towards the State. For Article 57, under the Financial Facility Convention by the European Stability Mechanism - it is for the article in question which the new Minister of Labour also wanted - the obligation to clear outstanding claims for reimbursement is provided for. This is precisely why it is not just about insurance, but also about the outstanding tax refund applications - it is primarily a matter of the Ministry of Finance and not the Ministry of Labour - as well as of the outstanding pension applications. The existing institutional framework provides for the possibility of grants to government bodies for the repayment of outstanding obligations only to third parties. The proposed provision complements the institutional framework in order to accelerate the liquidation rate of pension applications with the financing of the ESM. At the same time, it is ensured that, as long as government bodies do not return the balance of financing in time, the State budget will not be charged with a loss of revenue, as no other transfer is made to these entities. By clearing the outstanding pension applications from the specific financing of the ESM, the expenditure of EUR 859 million for 2017 is incurred. However, this expenditure does not jeopardise the objectives set out in the Financial Facility Convention, as it is excluded from the general government’s outcome, in accordance with the conditions laid down in that Convention. I shall refer a little to the last amendment that we have tabled, the Ministry of Finance. Article 1 provides that the proposed provision defines the mutual arrangement procedure provided for in double taxation agreements and relates to the correction of the profits of associated companies between Member States of the European Union. In Article 2, the proposed provisions aim to avoid circumvention of the relevant provisions of Articles 53 and 54 of the Code of Income Tax. In Article 3, under the provisions of Articles 52 to 55 of Law No 4172/2013, tax incentives were granted for business transformations. With the amendment, on the one hand, a complete framework of incentives is provided and, on the other, there is a uniform treatment of transformations exclusively from Law 4172/2013. For the Consumers' Counsel, mentioned by Mr Bourrai, I said that for the five days it was accepted by legislation. Article 17 requires a little longer working time and may be changed very soon. For Article 23 in the explanatory statement, it is clear that accessibility is provided, since, apart from being clear and objective, the indicators are also accessible. So we think that there is nothing more to do with this matter. For Article 17, we are committed to working on it and bringing it into a subsequent amendment. As far as the building partnerships are concerned, we have also heard the bodies in the committees and the rapporteurs in opposition. It is our intention in the near future to reintroduce the provision of extending the time for harmonising the statute of the building cooperatives. At present, there was no possibility of doing so, provided that there was no tax information. This bill harmonizes Greek legislation for the benefit of citizens. We believe that this is how we ensure that they are protected and fully informed. For whatever other issues we have, I shall return to the second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u105	Mr President, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I have a real need - you will see it from the contents too - to be placed for two minutes. It shall be the right of each Parliamentary representative to speak by any Minister. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u106	It's not like that. But, in any case, you cannot place any more. You went to the sixteen minutes before.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u107	I have no reason to talk any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u108	Mr. Teddy, do you copy?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u109	What does he say "receive"? It is my right, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u110	When I went to accept, you say it's your right. It is, but it's not like you're being proposed by me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u111	That's it, yes. Two minutes, Mr. President. The two minutes the Rules of Procedure say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u112	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u113	Mr President, I did not ask for anything that was at your discretion. I have asked for something that the Rules of Procedure defines, in order to respond to the debate opened by a Member, the Minister and the parliamentary representative are returning during the procedure of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Undersecretary, this is where they hear us. We're not between us. You are the Minister of the Hellenic Republic. What you're saying sounds out of the hall and out of the border. I made a criticism trying - because I must, according to the ethics of politics, not blame a State Secretary for 15 days for what he said yesterday as ignorant of the Turkish President's position. You're answering that the State Secretary couldn't? Is that possible?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u114	That's not what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u115	Is it possible, Mr President, to say these things? The Undersecretary couldn't. Isn't the Ministry of Foreign Affairs obliged to inform the Government? Is that possible? The citizen has a confession of incapacity. He needs attention. As far as the House is concerned, you explain an amendment that has been incorporated. I didn't ask you for an explanation. I am well aware of this, as are many other colleagues. I told you why, instead of bringing this arrangement for two months until February, you are not bringing the regulation that will fill the gap resulting from a poor and wrong interpretation of the law. We know what we voted for. He's supposed to go before 2012, huh? And you will be back here in two months with the same amendment. And you're answering for management checks and other matters. I didn't tell you about it. I told you why you are choosing a method that will bring you back here in two months, and you will trouble the House and the employees and the administration of the House. That's what I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u116	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u117	Madam Secretary, I think we are being diverted from the debate, because Mr Loverdes has asked to speak before you, because he had a reason, and the parliamentary representatives should normally have spoken after you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u118	For five seconds I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u119	It would happen later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u120	I would ask you not to have an interactive debate after that. We'll move on to Mr. Dendia. Here you go, Mrs. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u121	First of all, I didn't say that the government representative didn't know. He didn't have the confirmation of the news, I said when he talked to the editors. From there on, as far as the House is concerned, we are bringing the amendment and the dates until then. It's already begun and management control will proceed, so, if necessary, we may bring her back. We're not negative to that. But, once management is under way, we cannot do more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u122	What does one have to do with the other?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u123	It's got to do with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u124	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative Mr. Dendias has the floor. You're welcome, Mr. Dendia.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, first of all on the bill, I think there has been an extensive and adequate place for the diligent rapporteur of Minority, Mr Thanassis Bourrain. He raised some issues for you. I must praise and emphasise that he has produced and underlined the positions of the Consumers' Counsel, which I think, in the Minutes I have seen, were in a very positive direction and I think it is useful for the Ministry to take them into account. I would also like to welcome your position on the issue of loans in a Swiss franc and the Government's willingness to deal with this. It is surely a very large number. The value of the Swiss franc has been launched, it has brought too many of our fellow citizens into an extremely difficult position. They believed first of all that the low interest rates were a way to solve their problems, that the increase in the value of the currency has overturned all the logic of receiving these loans in a Swiss franc. I therefore welcome the government's commitment to dealing with it. However, I must point out in this regard that it is important to deal with these issues when it is done in good time. It doesn't matter when he's late. I must also say that the government has been extremely slow on a very large number of issues. One of these is red loans. For two years, with various excuses, the law which was legislated by the New Democracy - bears my name on the market - has not been implemented, on the grounds of better legislative intervention. In fact this intervention for two years has not come and has simply launched the number of red loans over 100 billion, the number glossy for the size of the Greek economy, the number glossy and the global data. I would also like to make a small position on the subject of the Congregation of Music. I must say, too, that I do not understand this arrangement. We probably have no reason to want workers to be paid, but this is where an overall understanding has emerged within the National Representation. The Congregation of Music was transferred to the Greek State for the purpose of taking over the debt obligations of the legal person. This should be applied at some point, not to come back to the logic of eternal prolongations, so that legislative work can also be organised in everyday life. What the Minister said about management control, no one has any objections to any checks. This check, and the possible apportionment, if any, has nothing to do with who is the legal entity of the loan obligation. It's irrelevant to each other. If, at any time at any time at any other stage, this is something else, it is probably a matter of civil compensation, it is a matter of criminal responsibility, if that is what happens, but it is not about the fact that, in the wording that we voted here, the Greek State accepted the loan. From there on, the Greek State is entitled to ask for the change from anyone. Absolutely understandable. And we're with you. It is unrelated to one another, at least in my own view it has not been explained to me by the reply to the honourable Member, because these two things are relevant. I come to the amendments. Madam Minister, I want to be honest with you, it is very disturbing - we have told us a hundred times, you are new Minister and you have no responsibility for the past, but you are responsible for the future - the government's tactics of ongoing and continuous delayed amendments and, indeed, very complicated amendments, such as No 759/125. It is not those things that constitute serious legislature and it is not those that are a serious state. This amendment deals with serious issues, such as the mutual arrangement procedure under double taxation agreements, the provision of tax incentives for business transformations and others. The transformations of undertakings, by the way of example, by Law No 1297/72, Law No 2166/93 are a complex matter anyway. Is it possible here, even if tax relief is available, to have an amendment of a kind which is, suddenly, unrelated to legislation incorporating a European directive? If the government wants to intervene positively on the question of the transformation of businesses, we too will. If he wants to relieve the Greek business world of tax burdens and burdens, we too, but seriously, not with an amendment formulated in a strange way, emblematic and, indeed, in an irrelevant piece of legislation. What's the emergency? Why couldn't you bring legislation in four days from now, five days from now, with the normal procedure? Can you explain? You can't even be embarrassed. You are a new Minister, you probably do not have the responsibility of content. Can you tell me the emergency of three, four, five days on a business-forming matter? Tell me. Unless you allow me to take my mind to the wrong, that is, that this amendment is cut and stitched down for a particular individual who is taking advantage of it. Otherwise there is no sense in the present, there is no sense in it. For God's sake! Late amendment to the transformation of enterprises? There's limits somewhere. It is a pity in every piece of your legislation, even when it is a positive arrangement, to detect behind it self-incentives. This is not a serious governance and that is not a serious legislature. In addition, and if we wish to support this amendment, we cannot, because the addition of paragraph 8 to Article 53 of Law No 4172/2013, which empowers the tax administration to impose any additional arrangements, in order to avoid circumvention of the provisions of Article, is an example of vague authorisation to tax provision, which is prohibited by the Constitution of the country. That is why we only have to vote against the whole amendment. And if we wanted to help you with the incentive to business, it is not allowed. Ladies and gentlemen, here, to God, we are not in order to have legal instruction among ourselves, nor is a parliamentary representative allowed to think that the government is not aware of it legally enough. But when he comes and gives vague and general powers, I start and suspect that the legal group which supports the legislative work of the Government and the Treasury somewhere is suffering. It cannot be explained otherwise, when such things come to us here, which we know with certainty that, when the first action is taken against the first act to be adopted by that, it will be swallowed down to the Council of State. We have history in this House and in this period of warnings to the government about anti-constitutional provisions, which the government did not hear, with top of course, and never repeated Mr. Pappa's triumph, for which we all said 'no, it is unconstitutional' and the government insisted. Here, which is not a similar issue, it is a matter, if you want, that you are trying to facilitate tax administration, do it properly, do not do so unconstitutionally. We are, however, telling you that clearly and I have been placed in detail for the Minutes, we cannot be positive about this, it is unconstitutional, it is a problem. I now come to something that is extremely serious and I cannot comment on it. The role of the parliamentary representative is not only to speak dryly about the legislation, but must be placed on the wider political framework on the day on which it is placed and in the time when it is placed. Ladies and gentlemen - it has already been said by the Minister and by the PASOK Parliamentary Representative - we must recognise that there is a matter in our relationship with the neighbouring country, Turkey, there is a matter in our relationship with our northern neighbours and, in particular, Albania, there is a matter, I must tell you, and with the support that our allies give us or do not provide us. I'm explaining. First of all, we are all here for a specific experience. None of us remembers during the life of the Chief of the Turkish State or the Turkish Government directly questioning the Treaty of Lausanne. Never! The Treaty of Lausanne, which bears the signature of the founder of the Republic of Turkey, was a text fully respected for the neighbouring country over time and the end of the 1920s and the 30s and 40s when Greece was in the moment of last weakness because of World War II. Even then Turkey has not called into question the Treaty of Lausanne or then! Kemal Ataturk's work was considered to be a project and therefore respected by the whole tradition, from which the Turkish Republic isgoing to this day. We come within a minimum of days to listen with our ears, not on a narrow board, but on a broad wording to the Turkish society, to the President of the Republic question the Treaty of Lausanne directly! The second thing I would like to stress and remind you of this is that the Treaty of Lausanne is not a bilateral treaty between Turkey and Greece. It is a treaty in which other European states are committed. I will not go into this because I do not want to put the government in a difficult position. Please check. It is not just about Turkey's western borders. The whole context of the conditions of that period, after the unfortunate war our own, 1920-1922, is not just about Turkey's western borders. I would like to ask why not another European country, one of which has taken part in the same framework of treaties, has not dealt with the statements made by Mr Erdogan to condemn them? Why, too, did the European Commission not even have a single communication in order to condemn President Erdogan's position? Is it not the position of President Erdogan dynamite on the foundations of the Treaties, which regulate European integration today? Yes or no? Can we anticipate that we can't hear what he says? But he says it directly to us. It selects a Turkish audience, primarily addressed to Turkish society, but behind Turkish society is directly directed at us and threatens us directly, directly. The threat is there, formulated and clear. When the President of Turkey speaks of the borders of his heart, who is threatening? We can't ignore it. We can't ignore it. It is a high symbolism that Mr Mitsotakis' visit to the Ministry of Defence yesterday - to be clear - and a clear move in support of the government, with regard to the claiming and founding of national law. As is also correct, Mr Kumucaku' s position today is to convene the Foreign Policy Council. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will not be late. Two minutes. I would like to point out that, when the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence was informed, there was no leakage. I say that, so that there is no standard justification for what is said to be leaking. Nothing's leaking. Everyone in this Chamber has a national conscience and they know how to defend and defend the national interest. However, the government at the moment seems to reduce a maximum threat, an unprecedented one - I must say - of the last eighty years. We've never lived this before, and we mustn't underestimate it. It's not a day-to-day conversation. As if the issue of the strong Turkish threat were not reached, we also have our neighbour from the north. Mr Rama very clearly raises issues. First of all, Albania should have ratified the issue of international waters in the Ionian Sea. There's no reason he won't move on to this. As for the whole matter of the decision of the Albanian Supreme Court, and so on, we all know well what happened at the time. The agreement, which had been made at the Government of Karamanlis, was not ratified, while it had to be ratified. First of all, to know, Mr. Rama has a Greek grandmother, a reader. So, Mr Rama, who has 1/4 Greek blood, is now coming and raises the issue of chamikos in Greece. We all know what happened after World War II, we all know what the role of chamis during World War II was. With what moral stature does the Albanian Prime Minister come and raise such issues in Greece today? In fact, in Greece, while in need, in Greece, which is in financial difficulty? Why didn't he put them in Greece, when we received more than one million fellow citizens, when Albania was in maximum economic hardship? Why does the government tolerate these things? I have to say, ladies and gentlemen, that we may have too many disagreements in this Chamber for too many things, but we are not entitled to have any substantial disagreement or delay in the major national issues, in the protection of national borders, in what has been inherited and we also have an obligation to inherit it to our offspring. Therefore, Madam Secretary, it is a great burden that you are dealing with this issue today, in your first - I think - at the National Representation. I was hoping that your presence would be easier, but let me tell you that you represent the government today - you have it - and that the government has to do what is right and that it has to rely on the whole of the Greeks, on the whole of the National Representation. It's not a simple matter, one cannot handle it with its degradation. We need to have a clear explanation and a clear explanation, as we must have clear information about Mr Tsipras' meeting with Mr Erdogan and on the agenda for Mr Tsipras' meeting with Mr Erdogan. What do we have to discuss with the one who threatens us? If the Prime Minister considers that this information should not be given to the entire National Representation, it should be done privately. It must be done either in the Foreign Policy Council, as Mr Kumucascus has asked, or in the heads of the parties, but it must be done. We are going through strange national times and the great burden of economic need, which Greek society and every Greek in his pocket, cannot prevent us from defending national laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-one students and students and two educational attendants from the High School of Megalopolis Arcadias. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Mandas, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u127	Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating a legislative initiative today which I think is the largest part of Parliament's agreement. I think that the next day for borrowers, especially in the field of housing loans, will clearly become better with the safeguards provided by the transposition of the European directive and the other measures that we are debating today. It is therefore a legislative initiative in a positive direction. It is an obligation, of course, to our country, even if there has been some delay. At the same time, within this legislative initiative, in particular in the second part, in my opinion, there are extremely positive provisions, which also help to rationalise the administration. In particular, the last amendment which has been tabled, essentially, decentralizes the scope of the ministries' financial services to be able to operate more quickly and efficiently. Of course, on the issue of the amendment relating to the allocation of EUR 859 million for the issue and ratification of pensions pending by the social security institutions, despite any objections raised in this House, it is clear that it is a positive amendment, in the right direction, and it solves problems. What some people probably mind from the Opposition is that, at last, nobody would say - and one class enters into the pension award. Since the second half of 2017, we will now have a normal flow of this right, as will the fact that this government has unfolded the issue of the ones, which I would remind you has been stuck since September 2013. It started again in July 2016 and for this purpose will be made available by June 2017, EUR 905 million. Already the one-off accounts are a positive balance sheet. I would remind you that it is a self-evident obligation of the state to the pensioners, who, unfortunately, was stuck. I would like, however, to see things a little more comprehensive, to remind you that the famous crisis, which we now come very late to address, at this particular level that the directive describes, is a crisis of financial capitalism and of the way in which it works against the right of workers, housing people. This orgy that has been worldwide, starting with the United States of America, in relation to housing loans, has also been experienced in our country, not in this area that other countries have experienced. However, I think that we should not forget how this problem started and how savage this system is, which makes people risk their lives, their troubles and so on. Don't forget that. I'm going a little further, because I think there's been a wider discussion. From the speeches that I, at least, heard, on the part of the Officerial Representation, I probably realized that on the nuclear issues of the negotiation that is taking place, that is, on the labour issues, at least throws the ball into the lane. I think it is now clear and revealing that the New Democracy is not talking about the Tampere and, underground or overland, it is drafted with the views of BSE. In particular, with regard to the reintroduction of collective bargaining and the question of the expansion of sectoral agreements, namely, the question of more favourable regulation, the New Democracy does not take a position or rather the position it takes describes much more the issue of business negotiations, which favours under the general structure "to let workers in the company find them with the employer", ignoring the work jungle that exists today in our country. I therefore think it is now clearer that on these crucial issues of negotiation, the New Democracy's position is on the side of the hardest and dogmatic views of lenders. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] There has been a lot of discussion, ladies and gentlemen, on the national issues, namely what has emerged in recent days and with great intensity, I would say, also from the Turkish President's statements and from the statements made by the Albanian President. They seem to create a climate or at least try to create a climate of instability. I think that from this step forward, and I imagine that all aspects of this Parliament must be committed as a country that respects international rules, a country that seeks relations of peace and cooperation with its neighbours. We must be firmly committed to this. I say this because there is a pressure and a turbulence around us, from our country and also from our country, as well as from the wider, because we live, ladies and gentlemen, in turbulent times and at European level. Developments are also evolving from the framework of bilateral relations, they are European issues. On this scale we have to look at them. Our country, as a pole of stability and with its particular geopolitical position, must remain firmly committed to pursuing relations of peace and friendship. This does not mean, on the contrary, that there is no case at all and I do not think on any account of Parliament, that we should not be sceptical towards both our national borders and our national rights. Let us not invest - and I say this as an appeal and request - on these issues, which are extremely critical issues, in a period of turmoil, in a troubled area, to operate opposition to these issues. We must - and the government will take all the necessary initiatives - to have a single line, but again in terms and with a view to relations of peace, friendship and stability in the region. Because we also know from history, at European level, how competition plants, which may also lead to very dangerous situations, can light up at all times. We firmly reject any dispute either by the Turkish President, Mr Erdogan, or by the Albanian Prime Minister, who resurrects or resurrects issues that have been permanently closed up for us. Because it is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that an interpretation is needed, and that is why we must not rush - because they are now choosing to raise these issues and not to confuse ourselves with interpretations. Mr. Dendias said before that Mr. Erdogan, addressing a national audience, looked across the street in our country. Let's think about this. Let us not hurry to give interpretations that may lead us to traps, because it might have been directed to his national audience and to his national audience, to be precise. We are well aware of what is happening and how Erdogan's relations with Europe are evolving, we know the processes that are being carried out in a field - to recall this again - where the question of the implementation of the European Union-Turkey agreement is open in relation to the refugee issue. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In closing, Mr President - I do not want to abuse time - I would like to say that we are definitely at a critical turning point. The government is struggling to complete the second assessment with a positive sign and to go to measures, not only in the short term, which will in any case enter the Eurogroup on 5 December, but also in the medium and long term to regulate the debt and be able to get out of this very tough negotiation on a more stable ground with a prospect of compromises, of course, but with society standing up. We will give this battle at all levels and we are optimistic that we can really go out with a positive sign. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u128	The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Evangelos Karakostas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr President. I should first like to comment on what the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman has said, who neither too much nor too much, tells us that what our country must defend is peace and leave to the European Union what they have to do in our relationship with Turkey. If the country leaves its national issues in the European Union, as it left the economic sector, then the Greek people have many important reasons for worrying. You asked where Mr Erdogan or Mr Rama were concerned. It's obvious that you've been found with bosicans, and that's exactly why they raise the claims they raise. I have heard the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative make the issue of Albanian challenges. What I have to say is that it is now enough with the hypocrisy of the patriopathic right. Was it Rama that came to Athens incognito to meet with the then Samara - Venizelos government? Was it not the New Democracy that cut the pensions of the North-West? I'm coming to the bill. The universal acceptance of the draft law by all the forces of the anti-constitutional arch, which has been found throughout the entire process of processing in the committee responsible, demonstrates the responsibility of all of you for the sinful past of the domestic banking system and for your complicity of what is just as harmful to the Greek society and especially those who are indebted to our banks are going to follow. The overcompensation of citizens and the excessive lending of households by credit institutions is a phenomenon associated with both the economic crisis and the country's turmoil and the faithful implementation of the Memorandum Policies by each ruler in the last decade. However, this is not just a consequence of the economic weakness of the citizens who have made use of the loan in order to meet their obligations. The origin of millions of our fellow citizens in overcompensation and overcompensation has been an integral part of a criminal policy which has been implemented for a long time and jointly by all the domestic and European institutions of the political and banking system. The coexistence and association of the Memorandum governments and the banking system in their crime against the people has been absolute. For a long time the systemic banks have promoted, advertised, trained and promoted unreasonable lending to natural persons to meet existing or non-existent needs. At the same time, the euphemistically auditing mechanisms of the state, the Bank of Greece and the European Union were not just tolerating, but also encouraging and favouring this policy of granting credits, credits which were not primarily channelled to enterprises and productive sectors of the economy, with the aim of increasing business and productive activities, so also growth, but were being given to citizens, leading them to over lending and overcompensation without a substantial contradiction. The price for the millions of indebted natural persons and households whose property was committed in favour of bank creditors was heavy. The dream of many families for building has turned into a nightmare and has led to the loss not only of individual and family property, but also of dignity, of self-respect for citizens and of any mood of participation in social events. The goal of international and domestic loan sharks and their local subsistences, who in recent decades have been managing the country's fate, has been achieved. Starting with the crime of the Stock Exchange and continuing with the imposition of memorials, unreasonable overlapping, the mortgage of real estate and the annihilation of incomes, all the political forces of the so-called constitutional arch - right, liberal, central and left - either from the position of the government or from the position of opposition, completed the campaign of economic bleeding of Greek society so that Greek citizens become economically impoverished, fully dependent on the banking system and thus easily controlled. However, since the above plan for economic impoverishment and enslavement of our people has been completed and the level of over-exploitation of our citizens has now reached the highest level with disastrous consequences for them, it is attempting by the loan sharks and their trustees to manage the situation in which the borrowers have arrived, so as to mislead the people once again and, at the same time, to prevent any social reactions. In this context, both this draft law and any piece of legislation - domestic or European - which is supposed to ensure the protection of borrowers, consumers and society in general and is well advised to take measures to control the procedure for granting credits, but then a holiday and no longer a reflection for the citizens, who are already captive domestic and international loan sharks, after years of bank arbitrage and immunity, and under the full coverage and association of the governments concerned. The draft law is supposed to be aimed at creating an environment of justice, honesty, professionalism and transparency in the field of banking transactions and the provision of credit to consumers - as referred to in Article 6 - in order to create a framework within which the first residence of debtors is assumed to be protected. However, what is referred to in the form of declarations and greetings in the articles of this article is not capable of persuading the most reliable observer either. On the contrary, they are the definition of political hypocrisy and are aimed solely at avoiding liability on the institutions, bodies and managers of the domestic and European banking system, who have consciously led large parts of the Greek society to overcompensation and overcompensation with the policy pursued by the banking institutions in the last decade. We see that, in all the provisions of the draft law being passed diligently, any reference is avoided to the bad texts and to the criminal policies of the past of the domestic financial system, so that the ground is prepared for the definitive impunity of the blame. It is being attempted by the authors of the draft law and the corresponding European directive, to forgive those who committed economic felonies against the citizens, by the absence of any reference to the need to charge responsibilities to the guilty and compensation of defrauded borrowers. Furthermore, no care is taken to restore the injustices of consumers, who have suffered a great deal of illegal and abusive burdens on creditors, who have long acted completely inconsistently and uncontrolledly against the Greek society. It follows from the above that the objective of the provisions of the draft law is simply to disorientate the public opinion and the Greek society in order to overcome the popular demand for the allocation of responsibilities and the punishment of those who have committed criminal offences against citizens in general and to borrowers in particular, by serving a banking system which, up to now, has been speculating on the basis of misleading and defrauding consumers. Following all these points, and the amendment of a general number 759 and a special 125 cannot be accepted by the Golden Dawn, as well as this is part of the provocative provision of privileges to multinational companies, harming both Greek businesses and our national economy. It makes it clear that the People's Association - Golden Dawn is voting against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u130	The process in which we will continue is as follows, because we have to finish soon, because another meeting is taking place at 17.00 noon, with another bill. There are two parliamentary representatives left, Mr Amyras and Mr Karras, one speaker, Mr Kumoucasos. The Bureau, under Mr Kremastinos, has accepted Mr Bourrain's request for a second-minute term of three minutes, which is what the special speakers and rapporteurs want, then I will ask the Minister if he has anything to complete and we will be voting on, so that at the latest at 15.00' -1530'. Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in my speech I shall deal with the amendment on the Athens Concert Hall, which was incorporated into the bill as Article 55. So if I were to get a press release or submit a parliamentary question, I would put a title: "Athens Concert Hall: a timeless cross-party scandal". With the amendment you have brought us for the second time - because you have already done so, during the previous mandate of the Government - the Music House will be able to trade without producing tax and insurance information, and will not be subject to the provisions on settling and enforcement. At the same time, the State will not collect interest and fines from the guarantees that have been deposited in favour of the Concert Music Concert. This amendment, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, does not, of course, see either one - and one - I still do not see one - and I would say one - and I support it as a glorious confession of political failure and guilt. It shows that governments' policies for the Congregation of Music are opaque and have led the situation to a marginal extent. Thus, while the Athens Congregation has absorbed so much public money, today the government tells us that if the amendment it tabled does not pass, the Music Congregation will not be able to operate and pay its employees. I ask you: have you brought things in such a dead end? So much have you failed, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA - ANEL? Why does the government not present its final proposal to us? Why, instead of solving the problem, is there a game of photographic amendments? What are you afraid of? These very words I have read to you are the words of the Members. Ekleidis Tsakalotou, Theanos Fotio, Olgas Gerovasili, Tsou Kourakis, Panagiotis Kouroubilis among the Ministers and a twenty-fifth MPs of SYRIZA. I have read you a press release and put in the Minutes a relevant parliamentary question that you tabled as opposition a few weeks before becoming a government. [[At this point, the Member, George Amyras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So now all that you supported and I read you about the Concert Hall - that it is the man of interlocutory, that you regulate with you photographically - you come to bathe them. But are you going to drive us crazy? If that is not enough for you, why were the five ministers and your twenty-eight Members, who have tabled the question, which I read to you, let us go to something more, I would say, wide. When hospitals are closed, Minister, because it does not have the state to give some millions of euros, but at that time you, while...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u132	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u133	Hang in there, Mr. Colleague, you'll be exposed. So when hospitals are closed, because we do not have to give EUR 23 million and at the same time for certain buildings that are opposite the island of Egypt and the Areteion, you are giving millions of guarantees, that is, in the Music Hall, we have to decide what is important, Minister. Is social cohesion a matter of defending the weak or defending the interests of the few and the chosen economic oligarchy of this place? Alexis Tsipras, a few weeks before he became Prime Minister. The question therefore comes with a lips, Mr Tsipras, to you to answer it to us. Are you defending the interests of the few and the chosen economic oligarchy, then, by strengthening the Congregation of Music? But how many political crooks are you? How many pounds of political liars are you? You don't have the slightest point, the political point of going out and saying: "Yes, so many years we've been talking about the Congregation of Music that it's the man of hatred and interlocutory, we've made a mistake, we've been lying." Why don't you tell us? What about this political imbalance within the SYRIZA? Is it possible for your political problem, any political barber you have said, to make it at the end and law of the state? So answer us why are you clinging, according to Mr Tsipras, to the economic oligarchy of this place, defending the interests of the few and the chosen ones? A lot of answers accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u134	The Aeginite that's stuck?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u135	Spatial planning was Mr. Kegeroglu, the issue of Egypt. Mr Carras has the floor, and we are closing down with the parliamentary representatives, because from what I see Mr Papachristopoulos is not here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u136	Mr President, I will try to imitate Mr Amyras in terms of time, not in terms of the voice tébos and the fighting that he has shown.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u137	Uh, youth isn't hiding, Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u138	That is right, Mr President. I should first like to wish the new Minister a good way to the Ministry for the sake of all Greeks and our citizens. Today, Mr President, I am not going to go into the draft legislation under discussion, which is another adaptation of a European directive to the internal legal order. However, I would like to make a little note on this occasion. Legislative work has now been limited to incorporating European directives usually in writing, without even dealing with many points with the regulations that are left by the directives themselves and, at the same time, to legislate on the adjustment programme by creditors. So you will allow me to conclude that the country cannot proceed in normal conditions without its own legislative initiative, which is necessary in the current circumstances under which we are dictating. For example: I was earlier in the Committee on Public Administration. We incorporated a directive on the introduction of an arbitrage mechanism to the police, on the incorporation of contracts on the rights of people in need of special protection and care. That's all right, that's all right. However, those provisions, which will relaunch society - I put it before the economy now in the conditions in which the country lives - and as an automatic consequence and the economy, have not seen them. So I see today that we are harmonising a directive on consumer credit contracts for immovable property. That's right. He's got a good philosophy. Mr. Saridis has been placed at these points. I don't want to spend time and repeat. However, this directive was a solution. I am not referring, Minister, to whether it should have been incorporated in 2014, 2015 or 2016. I will make the following comment: it was a solution. It was a solution to those borrowers who had housing loans, to a foreign currency clause - the well-known issue of the Swiss franc, for whom, in the end, everyone expected devaluation because of the crisis in Europe, it was revalued - or at a variable interest rate. So, in order to reach this directive in 2014 and to agree to the European Commission and the European Parliament, it had a two, three-year previous course, which the countries, the Services, consulted, had to deal with this problem. We couldn't have seen it before the well-known issue of loans with a Swiss franc was raised and we had an internal legislation and had to deal with it? Because, as you know, the judgments of the courts vary. There is still no consolidated case law that favours or does not blame these people. Not to say the word 'fair', because I do not think they should be favoured, but they should not be wronged. At the same time, we do not have the possibility today of giving these provisions of the Retroactive Directive to settle these outstanding issues, which will all be addressed at the end of the day, unless they are settled with so-called red loans. But also the so-called red loans, the road is a long one. We have not yet seen any decisive moves to deal with them. Is that a matter of institutions? Is this a matter of negotiation? However, it is not this draft law. I am simply saying that there is a portion of our fellow citizens, who are not, in my opinion, to blame, because we know that there were also bank suggestions: 'It is cheaper to borrow you with a Swiss franc, we will convert it into a euro, we will get the commission for conversion, and then you will pay us in euros, so that we can turn the euro into a Swiss franc again, get a second commission'. And what will be the value of the Swiss franc? No one understood that the Swiss franc, an economy that has a different direction from the European one, would be dishonest, would not be underestimated and would be much more expensive to pay for these loans. So let us hope, Minister, that you also find a solution for the past loans, because this part of the debtors cannot be left behind. For housing loans, no one can yet be negative - perhaps too much - and for potential malpractices. He cannot leave it "and for potential malicious payers", because to those who will put them in the coup d'état group, they can also be some who really have an objective impossibility to pay and to blame them too. Okay, well, as far as the bill is concerned. We are finally voting within the House. We're not voting for original law. But let us go - Mr Amyras has given me the floor - the amendment on the Music House. I was one of those few who had not voted for the transfer of the Grand Music - and Mr Amyras I think - to the Greek state. Why, Minister, and Mr President? No, because I don't recognize in culture the participation of the Grand Musician. I've said I'm a friend of opera and classical music, but don't talk about it now. But with regard to the price of the 500 million that has been valued, I disagreed. Why am I saying that? Because this is a building designed to serve culture. It has no commercial value, as the Ministry of Culture brought us, which says its objective value is 500 or 600m euros. Find me an investor in a cultural area that would invest EUR 500 million if he decided to sell it, so that he could restore the cost he did. The Niarchus Foundation is with resources of an institution. Onassis institutions are private resources. It is another story, of course, whether there were tax issues and why the institutions became. Don't open it now. They're too obsolete. In this amendment we voted'residents' for the Music House. In fact, then, we proposed to Mr Balta - I remember being here, in the same position - on the other hand: 'Call Metropolitan Opera, call Skala Milan, call the Institute and the Wagner Foundation to advise us. They're world organizations with range, classic music and opera. They know more than we do." I didn't hear you. We have therefore voted'represent' on the question of giving some money to serve the needs of the staff. I was passing through Vassilisssis Sofia Avenue and saw "seven months unpaid", "eight months unpaid", earlier "eight months unpaid". I see now that a new regulation is coming, which says about the Congregation of Music, that all kinds of netting against the Concert Hall of Music is not permitted. The against the OMMM and any other co-responsibilities with the person concerned, etc., shall be suspended. I have a reservation on that. Who are we going to consider as co-responsible persons? Are we going to consider the guarantors? We will consider those who had been in command in the past and had issued guarantees of their own, and so we are giving them a form of immunity beyond the Congregation of Music. Let's go to good. Let us say that it is a cultural centre - in the good sense - let us say that it is useful, but "... and every other complacent person...", I don't know who it is and I don't know if the explanatory statement to the amendment is as it came. I would ask that I have an answer on this point, because we may indirectly expand the scope of an exculpatory provision. And after all - if there is any guarantor who has guaranteed with knowledge that he will pay on behalf of the Grandee, let him be called upon to pay. Another provision I agree with, but it is personal reasons, for the concession to the Municipality of Haliri for forty years of the well-known Mint. I'm a neighbor. I've been there for fifty years. I know the region, and I know the problems that are created and the shortcomings of the region's children. Yes, we will agree on that, although I am now stubborn in agreeing to the arrangements that are coming. I would also agree with another amendment, which concerns incentives for business transformations with the Income Tax Code and the Code of Tax Procedure. It's 759/125. I will agree, for a hope of investment. Of course, in Greece the history of transformations is very bad. It is very bad because changes occur many times to lose track of those who have created passives to other companies or to transfer passives from one side to another. And so many times we get out of responsibility too. It's analogous to the co-responsibility. I don't want to analyze it any more. In any case, we have said that we must support this provision. Moreover, in respect of proceedings and procedures for mutual settlement, they are not bad. But what I want to say again is that we have a standard Code of Taxation. I think that at some point the standard tax procedure was a success. Of course, I am not sure whether it has succeeded or failed fully with the appeal procedure, at which point the result has been achieved, to what extent the collection has been achieved, or if we are simply giving an extension to the doubt that some obligations will be fulfilled. I object to intervening in such standard legislation because those who compile them, regardless of political direction, have the result of an experience. I may disagree and disagree on many points with the then government, which voted for this code. However, let us not go back with fragmentary arrangements. We create breaches and in the way we make them inappropriate. So I sum up, Mr President. Mr Saridis has been put on our side in the bill. I have given my remarks, my thoughts, and I think that these interventions should be useful, because at the last minute, at the end of the session of a bill, and if there is no time, we should put votes to the next debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u139	Mr. Kumucako, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u140	Mr President, the parliamentary debate on the bill has been essentially closed and from the point of view of the New Democracy, and it is clear and well known our position. In this debate, however, as a result of the developments and events of the days, reference was made to the latest events on national issues. I would therefore like to see a short and clear position from the point of view of the New Democracy. It's already been done by Mr. Dendia. In addition, I would like to refer to some of the elements of the last few days, because it is true that clouds are gathering on the horizon of our national issues, because there are unacceptable recurring statements from both east and north. I would like to stay in the Turkish President-in-Office's very problematic statements, Mr Erdogan. Mr Erdogan feels, with regard to Turkey's internal political scene, powerful. But he feels worried about developments at his borders. These are developments that he sees he can't control. This combination of power on the one hand and insecurity on the other makes it unpredictable. So the recurring statements of inadmissibility of questioning the Treaty of Lausanne have every reason to address them with particular concern and concern. In fact, what are these statements? It is a question of the international legal system, of the international legal basis, which for almost a century has determined the borders, the balance and therefore stability throughout the Eastern Mediterranean region. So the risk of these statements calling into question the current regime is obvious and it also concerns our country. It also concerns Greek-Turkish relations. What's got to be done? What has the government done so far, in addition to some public positions of concern and retarded ones, if I judge the government's extremely stiff reaction yesterday? The European Union, our partners and, in any case, the parties to the Treaty of Lausanne must be informed. Because this treaty has been signed between Greece, Great Britain, France, Italy, Japan, Romania, Serbia, Croatia, Slovenia - then in one state, now successor states - on the one hand and Turkey on the other. We should inform ourselves, because of the particular sensitivity that Mr Erdogan's review tactic has to have for us, that these states and that we should also move at European level. And I would like to inform the House here, giving an example of how the New Democracy is dealing with national issues, that at the moment in the European Parliament in a resolution to be tabled there is an amendment from the Group of the European People's Party, which has emerged on the initiative of the New Democracy, in which it is clearly stated that 'the European Parliament is very concerned and concerned with statements challenging the Treaty of Lausanne - I am translating from English - which defines the borders of modern Turkey and has contributed for almost a century to maintaining peace and stability in the region. This is a very clear, clear, strict and therefore an important amendment that is currently being tabled in Strasbourg in order to be adopted by the European Parliament. We are therefore giving a sample of how we understand the role of Officerial Opposition and national issues. For Mr Rama's statements, I will make no mention, while respecting your time, your understanding and the flexibility that the Bureau has had to have the floor. But, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as soon as possible, in the next few days, if possible, the National Foreign Policy Council will be convened, in order to get away from the lights - if you wish - of the impressions caused by publicity, for the political forces to discuss seriously, responsibly and thoroughly the very serious developments currently taking place on the horizon of our national issues. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u141	In the parliamentary order, I will read out the names of the rapporteurs and specialist speakers and who are in the Chamber and wish to speak from their position for three minutes. Those who are not in the Chamber or are or do not want to speak will not speak. Mr. Antoniou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr President. I won't be using all year round. As far as the provisions of the bill that we are discussing today are concerned, it is clear and has been confessed by all the sides of the House that it creates a different landscape from here and beyond to borrowers, compared with mortgages on first home. It ensures transparency and better addressing of issues relating to foreign currency loans and early repayment of loans. I think that will help from now on to the election of the entire system of loans, for the benefit of consumers and borrowers. Also, in relation to the amendments, most of them are useful because they facilitate public administration in matters relating to emergency situations and in terms of payment of public rents, and in terms of regularising outstandings on the Music House and in terms of transferring EUR 850,000,000 from the ESM, in order to quickly clear up outstanding pension applications, which will also be for the benefit of the national economy, because it will contribute to the purchase of money in 2017 and enable our economy to take a developmental path. I would like you to allow me, however, to focus on a few points made by some of my colleagues in the Opposition in relation to national and foreign policy issues. I would like to say that Greece is a stable country in a very troubled environment. Our country and the government have consistently served national interests and have been in line with the national line which has been characterised and firmly served by all governments in recent years. I think that these issues should not be exploited by the Stepping of the House. In any case, unnecessarily physical lionisms from various neighbors do not help, regardless of their origin. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u143	I would like to ask you to focus on the bill. The other issues have already been discussed by all parties. Here, Mr. Bourra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr President. I should like to begin by saying that, in general terms, I would like to accept, with all the importance of the word, that the Minister will make these commitments that she has said in her position, in particular, regarding the question of building partnerships, so that very briefly - because this matter is urgent - a provision regulating the harmonisation of their statutes in accordance with the latest law and the European Union's requirement, without including the term and the requirement of tax information. Now, at the very short time, Mr President, which is there, I will accept that he will also see the other issues that the Minister has committed himself to as regards the comments made by the Consumers' Counsellor. However, if you or your colleagues had seen the comments made by the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, which is a very important instrument in the functioning of the House and in the completion of the draft laws, you would see that a number of comments are made. And I have to say this because we will then vote on the whole. It makes you, firstly, an observation and must be corrected in respect of the title itself. I do not know if you have seen this, but the title of the bill is not complete according to the terms of the directive, that is to say, some things are omitted, that is, 2013 and so on. - not to say it, because I'm wasting time like this, Mr. President. For Article 17, which the Consumers' Counsel is proposing to you - I said it - and says, 'If the identity of the legal word...', a legal reason must be added. That's proud. You should have seen it and had it done it once the Scientific Committee has said it, so that you do not come after five, ten days - I say, you will apply it - to correct legislation and to supplement it with something that has been voted on and the papyrus printed by the National Printing Office has still not dried up. As in Article 37, Minister, it makes specific comments on the Scientific Committee and even invokes the Consumers' Counsellor. You should look at these, if you can now, so that your partners can incorporate some comments. I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute or so, because there has already been some time. Explain what it was to explain. For the last minute's amendments you can understand that we are types and substance-negative. If you take this amendment that I said to you, which is mentioned in the Ministry of Administrative Reform - of course the Minister for Finance also signifies it - it is some pages. In particular, when it mentions abolished provisions, where do we find these sources here today in this narrow margin of time? How do we even see what these provisions are? Because, frankly, it's last-minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u145	Finish it, Mr. Bourra.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u146	As far as the other amendment is concerned, it also has your signature, apart from the fact that it is late, secondly, it also has the meaning of unconstitutionality. If it had been structured differently, because while it has three separate articles, it is tabled as an amendment, we could accept the first and third.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u147	Please hang up, Mr. Bourra.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u148	However, the second part, the second article - to say it so - is clearly and clearly unconstitutional, so that we cannot vote on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-nine students and students and two educational attendants from the High School of Megalopolis Arcadia (second section). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Germenis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u150	As far as the amendment on the Music House is concerned, we had said it this time and last year and voted - perhaps the only party in this House, if I remember correctly - 'against'. We are coming a year later and we are discussing the same subject again and I see that some parties have started to see exactly what is happening with the Congregation of Music and the "children" set up in there again. Now, I come to what I haven't had time to say in my prototype. Of course, for three minutes, how much time can I say? It's too many articles. I would like to refer to Rule 42, which abolishes the mandatory assessment by the College of Observers and allows the report to be drawn up by any auditor. This is a fact that does not ensure the reliability and objectivity of the assessment. And we ask how we guarantee the solvency and impartiality of the valuer and what kind of guarantee they are given. All of these are considerations that are not answered in the explanatory statement. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. In Article 44 we are talking about a great scandal. Paragraphs 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8 and 9 of Article 2 of Law 3755/2009 are repealed, which regulate tax matters and grant tax exemptions, namely, after the PPA Convention - we are talking about the company 'COSCO' - the only person responsible for imposing conditions on Greek territory is the foreign company. If this is not a straightforward violation of constitutional principles and interference by the company of foreign interests, then what is it? So, are we calling the country such investors? Are we calling on investors who will have tax exemptions and when there are Greek investors, are we burdening them with taxation head-to-head? Also, Article 49 - another article which is scandalous for us - concerns the Committee on the Adoption of Transactions in the General Accounting Office of the State and is given a suspension of criminal prosecution for its members and its secretary. That committee was set up in 2014 by an act of law in order to approve specific transactions, based on the social benefit, which is, of course, a fully vague concept, which forgives irregularities and illegal acts. A year later, in the mid-capital controls, it adopts a decision, namely number 21/2015, whereby it was permitted under conditions for a 24-hour period and only for those who could have known the decision, the transfer of money abroad. I mean, for a 24-hour, these gentlemen have informed their friends, the people who had the big packages, of making all the money out. And the poor Greek wait in line to make 400 euros a week! And here the Minister didn't answer us. I conclude with Article 54 on the concession of the land to the Municipality of Halandri for forty years. And this is where the retroactive power is intended and how it is achieved in practice? Give us an answer here, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u151	The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Vardalis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr President. I am also going to refer to a number of articles and the attitude of our party towards them. First of all, in Article 54, as has been done, and has entered the trunk of the bill - which relates to the Municipality of Halandri, we are positive. After all, the popular cave of this municipality took the lead in the struggles to grant the land concerned. We believe, however, that, despite our positive vote, the municipality should be given permanently and not only for forty years as provided for in the draft law. The second point I want to make is that Amendment No 753-121 - and it has been incorporated into Article 55 - concerning the tax information of the Conservative Musician, a subject for which a lot of discussion has taken place. We shall vote 'the present'. Of course, we agree that workers should be paid, not a debate. But they have repeatedly come - it is not just twice - amendments on the same subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u153	And not just for the Congregation of Music.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u154	And not just. My experience is, for the rest I don't know. In any case, it must be permanently resolved. As for Rule 56, which is Amendment 754/122, we agree and shall vote on it. In Article 57, which concerns the possibility of an exceptional grant from the State budget for the insurance funds, we will vote'residents', first of all because your own policy, with the insurance laws that you have passed, breaks both the insurance funds and the pensioners and the workers. Furthermore, the issue for us is not about giving some millions to the insurance funds to solve this real problem and about giving the pensions that have already been submitted. The question is that you have to give the funds owed to the insurance funds, which the insurance fund workers themselves estimate to be about EUR 3 billion. That's what you have to give. Finally, Amendment 756 opposes and we will vote against it, because this amendment promotes changes in the public sector and the State more generally in the context of the restructuring and transfer of budgetary control services to the financial services of public bodies. These changes are part of the lesser-state logic, the reduction of control mechanisms, the removal of obstacles, as they characterise them in investment, the implementation of procedures, the unjustified channelling of money to business groups, but they affect, directly, the employees of financial services. The responsibility - and this is the important one - of every political choice to the directors of the financial services, who will be called upon to check the legitimacy of the actions of their political leaders. In our view, there will be a widening of the obvious and secret pressures on the financial officials who will exercise this control over the legality of expenditure. Is it or is it not unreasonable that they exist to control their heads? Is any checks abolished or not on the substance? What is needed, in our view, is the withdrawal of the relevant legislative initiative by N.4337 and the establishment of the public authority to control expenditure independent of those controlled. To introduce universal, substantial and complete control of all expenditure and to remain the pre-contractual audit of the Court of Auditors and even to extend to contracts of more than EUR 60,000, because it is now more than EUR 200,000. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u155	Mr. Cammene, do you want a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u156	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u157	Thank you. Mr. Saridis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u158	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today's bill was actually exhausted in committees. The government with the Minister has heard the intentions and views of the Opposition, has moved into brave movements. It effectively abolished two articles, Article 43 and Article 46, which were controversial articles and had agreed to it by the whole of the opposition. The Centro Association will vote 'yes' in this bill at first. Our objections, which are essentially placed in the'residence', are for the article in the amendment to which we bring the arrangements for the Music Concert. As our Parliamentary spokesman has said, we have been placed in the past for the Congregation of Music. The provision you put in, where you are basically saying that they are suspended against the OMGA and other co-debtors, is that which leads us to the present phase in voting'residents'. As they are present, we shall vote on Amendment No 756/124, as we consider that we did not have time to study more carefully all these amendments to the provisions. I have nothing more to add, Mr President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u159	The speakers from the parliamentary groups have been completed. Madam Minister, you have the floor for five minutes to answer from your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u160	First of all, I would like to mention that our country is the only country that has stability at the moment in a boiling Mediterranean. I will not go any further on foreign policy issues with the neighbouring countries. I think the Greek Government is dealing with the issue with the appropriate seriousness. We will, of course, take account of the proposals made by the opposition and will take them to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. From there on, with regard to a number of issues that have been raised in relation to the amendment, what does Article 53 refer to? It concerns the exchange of securities by shareholders or shareholders for the acquisition of securities of another undertaking. The amendment enables the tax authority to lay down conditions for avoiding circumvention in the exchange of securities. It has nothing more to do with this. Furthermore, Article 54, which we again come to amend, relates to mergers and divisions of undertakings. The amendment has a similar objective as the above amendment to Article 53. Avoid circumvention of the provisions and avoid the conduct of transformations of undertakings with a view to avoiding tax evasion or avoidance. There is nothing else that is considered strange from the opposition that does not want to vote on this amendment. As far as Article 42 is concerned, the valuer is not a random valuer. He's an evaluator registered in the valuer's register. As far as the Music Hall is concerned, it is a problem that actually exists for years. It's nothing new. He left Mr Amyras who brought us the previous question that had been asked by SYRIZA Members at the time, asking for management control. I said it before, it's going to start a management check. It has been decided from 10-10-2016. I think we have nothing more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u161	Excuse me, for the manager, did you say it would start from 10-10-2016?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u162	No, no. On 10-10-2016 it was decided...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u163	Retrospectively backwards. Because the way you said it...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u164	It's decided...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u165	Okay, I get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u166	It was decided to carry out a management check.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u167	Management over the past few years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u168	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u169	For the title alone, should you accept the comment of the Scientific Council and complete the title of the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u170	I have no objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u171	Mr President, I would like to say something. Madam Minister, Mr. Dendias was analytic. We have to vote on this amendment because it is about workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u172	Mr. Bourra, you have. The one who was exhausting why do you repeat him? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u173	I replied to Mr Amyras, who raised a question of management. I didn't answer you. It has nothing to do with it. In addition, the report by the General Accounting Office of the State does not give rise to costs for the Greek State. It's just that the revenues are getting better.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u174	It is what we adopted in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u175	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u176	Will you read us the title, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u177	Since the title of the draft law in question states the title of the Directive, it is appropriate to transfer it as follows: ‘ Harmonise legislation by Directive 2014/17/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 February 2014 on credit agreements for consumers of residential property and amending Directives 2008/48/EC and 2013/36/EU and Regulation (EU) No 648/2012. 1093/2010, and other provisions of jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance.’
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u178	All right, Mr. Bourra?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u179	No, Mr President, just for the Scientific Committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u180	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance is hereby finalised ‘Simplification of legislation by Directive 2014/17/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 February 2014 on credit agreements for consumers of residential immovable property and amending Directives 2008/48/EC and 2013/36/EU and Regulation (EU) No 1296/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 February 2014 on credit agreements for consumers of residential immovable property and amending Directives 2008/48/EC and 2013/36/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EU) No 406/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council. 1093/2010, and other provisions of jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance.’ Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u181	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u182	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u183	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u184	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u185	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u186	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u187	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u188	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u189	Therefore, the draft Law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘The harmonisation of legislation by Directive 2014/17/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 February 2014 on credit agreements for consumers of residential immovable property and amending Directives 2008/48/EC and 2013/36/EU and Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council, as well as Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2014 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 692/2009 (OJ L 166, 26.6.2014, p. 1). 1093/2010, and other provisions of the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance’ was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the vote on the articles. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u190	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u191	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u192	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u193	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u194	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u195	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u196	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u197	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u198	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u199	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u200	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u201	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u202	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u203	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u204	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u205	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u206	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u207	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u208	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u209	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u210	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u211	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u212	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u213	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u214	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u215	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u216	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u217	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u218	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u219	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u220	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u221	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u222	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u223	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u224	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u225	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u226	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u227	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u228	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u229	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u230	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u231	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u232	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u233	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u234	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u235	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u236	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u237	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u238	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u239	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u240	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u241	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u242	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u243	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u244	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u245	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u246	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u247	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u248	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u249	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u250	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u251	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u252	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u253	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u254	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u255	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u256	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u257	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u258	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u259	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u260	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u261	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u262	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u263	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u264	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u265	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u266	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u267	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u268	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u269	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u270	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u271	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u272	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u273	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u274	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u275	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u276	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u277	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u278	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u279	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u280	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u281	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u282	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u283	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u284	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u285	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u286	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u287	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u288	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u289	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u290	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u291	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u292	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u293	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u294	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u295	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u296	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u297	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House agree to Rule 13, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u298	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u299	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u300	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u301	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u302	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u303	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u304	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u305	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u306	Article 13 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u307	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u308	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u309	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u310	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u311	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u312	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u313	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u314	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u315	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u316	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u317	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u318	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u319	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u320	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u321	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u322	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u323	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u324	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u325	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u326	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u327	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u328	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u329	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u330	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u331	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u332	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u333	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u334	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u335	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u336	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u337	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u338	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u339	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u340	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u341	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u342	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u343	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u344	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u345	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u346	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u347	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u348	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u349	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u350	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u351	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u352	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u353	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u354	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u355	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u356	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u357	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u358	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u359	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u360	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u361	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u362	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u363	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u364	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u365	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u366	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u367	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u368	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u369	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u370	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u371	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u372	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u373	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u374	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u375	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u376	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u377	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u378	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u379	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u380	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u381	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u382	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u383	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u384	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u385	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u386	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u387	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u388	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u389	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u390	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u391	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u392	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u393	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u394	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u395	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u396	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u397	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u398	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u399	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u400	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u401	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u402	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u403	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u404	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u405	Article 24 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u406	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u407	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u408	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u409	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u410	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u411	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u412	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u413	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u414	Article 25 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u415	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u416	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u417	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u418	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u419	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u420	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u421	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u422	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u423	Article 26 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u424	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u425	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u426	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u427	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u428	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u429	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u430	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u431	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u432	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 28 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u433	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u434	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u435	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u436	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u437	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u438	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u439	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u440	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u441	Article 28 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 29 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u442	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u443	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u444	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u445	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u446	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u447	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u448	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u449	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u450	Article 29 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u451	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u452	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u453	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u454	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u455	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u456	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u457	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u458	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u459	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 31 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u460	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u461	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u462	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u463	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u464	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u465	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u466	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u467	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u468	Article 31 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u469	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u470	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u471	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u472	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u473	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u474	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u475	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u476	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u477	Article 32 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 33 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u478	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u479	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u480	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u481	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u482	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u483	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u484	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u485	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u486	Article 33 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u487	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u488	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u489	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u490	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u491	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u492	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u493	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u494	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u495	Article 34 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 35 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u496	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u497	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u498	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u499	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u500	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u501	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u502	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u503	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u504	Article 35 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 36 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u505	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u506	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u507	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u508	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u509	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u510	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u511	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u512	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u513	Article 36 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 37 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u514	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u515	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u516	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u517	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u518	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u519	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u520	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u521	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u522	Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 38 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u523	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u524	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u525	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u526	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u527	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u528	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u529	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u530	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u531	Article 38 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 39 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u532	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u533	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u534	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u535	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u536	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u537	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u538	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u539	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u540	Article 39 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 40 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u541	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u542	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u543	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u544	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u545	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u546	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u547	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u548	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u549	Article 40 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 41 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u550	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u551	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u552	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u553	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u554	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u555	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u556	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u557	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u558	Article 41 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 42 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u559	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u560	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u561	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u562	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u563	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u564	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u565	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u566	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u567	Article 42 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 43 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u568	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u569	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u570	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u571	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u572	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u573	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u574	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u575	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u576	Article 43 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 44 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u577	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u578	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u579	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u580	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u581	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u582	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u583	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u584	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u585	Article 44 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 45 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u586	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u587	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u588	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u589	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u590	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u591	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u592	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u593	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u594	Article 45 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 46 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u595	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u596	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u597	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u598	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u599	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u600	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u601	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u602	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u603	Article 46 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 47 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u604	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u605	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u606	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u607	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u608	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u609	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u610	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u611	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u612	Article 47 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 48 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u613	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u614	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u615	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u616	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u617	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u618	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u619	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u620	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u621	Article 48 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 49 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u622	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u623	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u624	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u625	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u626	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u627	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u628	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u629	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u630	Article 49 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 50 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u631	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u632	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u633	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u634	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u635	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u636	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u637	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u638	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u639	Article 50 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Will Rule 51 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u640	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u641	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u642	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u643	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u644	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u645	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u646	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u647	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u648	Article 51 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 52 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u649	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u650	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u651	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u652	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u653	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u654	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u655	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u656	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u657	Article 52 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 53 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u658	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u659	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u660	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u661	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u662	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u663	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u664	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u665	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u666	Article 53 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 54 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u667	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u668	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u669	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u670	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u671	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u672	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u673	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u674	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u675	Article 54 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 55 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u676	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u677	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u678	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u679	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u680	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u681	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u682	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u683	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u684	Article 55 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 56 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u685	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u686	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u687	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u688	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u689	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u690	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u691	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u692	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u693	Article 56 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 57 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u694	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u695	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u696	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u697	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u698	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u699	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u700	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u701	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u702	Article 57 was therefore accepted as a majority. We are entering the vote on the amendments. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number 756 and a special number 124, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u703	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u704	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u705	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u706	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u707	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u708	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u709	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u710	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u711	The amendment under general number 756 and a special 124 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 759 and a special number 125 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u712	Mr President, before we vote I want a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u713	Mr Bourra, as you know, when the vote has begun, there are no explanations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u714	Yeah, but here I see three different things.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u715	By way of derogation, if there is broad acceptance, for one minute please tell us what is the clarification you want and how the State Secretary will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u716	You mentioned a number, I don't remember him now, not looking for him in my papers. The amendment, as it has been tabled, has had three individual articles that it did not name.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u717	If you mean that, the Minister heard that. She's not willing to break it in three separate parts. So you vote en bloc and therefore, because of paragraph 2, you as a New Democracy are voting 'no'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u718	We vote 'no' because...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u719	And after the clarifications I gave you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u720	No, the second part is unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u721	Mr. Bourra, we're not having a conversation. It's clarified. The government won't accept breaking into three.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u722	Yes, but how does it be voted on in three different articles?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u723	It shall not be voted on in three different articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u724	No, it's three articles separately. We should vote separately.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u725	It's three different.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u726	The amendment is one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u727	No, it's three articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u728	It's three articles, Mr. President. This is not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u729	Mr Kegeroglu, the Rules of Procedure are clear. The amendment was tabled as one and one is voted. If it is passed and then incorporated into the central bill, then it is divided into three different articles. The Rules are clear. Please, I do not accept any other interruption.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u730	It's not breaking up. It's an article with three paragraphs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u731	That's right. We are therefore coming back to the vote on the amendment. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 759 and a special number 125 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u732	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u733	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u734	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u735	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u736	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u737	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u738	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u739	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u740	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 759 and a special 125 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same articles. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u741	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u742	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u743	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u744	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u745	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u746	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u747	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u748	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u749	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Therefore, the draft Law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Compatification of legislation by Directive 2014/17/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 February 2014 on credit agreements for consumers of residential property and amending Directives 2008/48/EC and 2013/36/EU and Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council, and Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 692/2009 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2013, p. 1). 1093/2010, and other provisions of jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance’ has been accepted in principle and under Articles. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u750	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u751	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u752	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u753	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u754	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u755	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u756	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u757	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u758	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Therefore, the draft Law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Compatification of legislation by Directive 2014/17/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 February 2014 on credit agreements for consumers of residential property and amending Directives 2008/48/EC and 2013/36/EU and Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council, and Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 692/2009 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2013, p. 1). 1093/2010, and other provisions of the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance’ has been accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles, amendments and the whole, which reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u759	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u760	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-23-S1-commons.u761	With the consent of the House at 15.25 the meeting for today, Wednesday 23 November 2016 at 17.00, on the subject of Parliament's legislative work: Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law: "Incorporation into the Greek Legislation of Directive 2014/94/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2014 on the development of alternative fuels infrastructures, simplification of the authorisation procedure and other provisions of fuel and energy service stations and other provisions", according to the agenda distributed.
