ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-23-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 22-5-2016, PLA's minutes were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau, on Sunday 22 May 2016, with regard to the resolution in the whole draft law: ‘Emergency provisions for the implementation of the budgetary objectives and structural reforms agreement and other provisions’.]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS Before entering the only timely question, I will inform you that they will not be discussed by the relevant ministers and that they will be redefined for discussion, the following questions: The first question under number 875/16-5-2016 of the New Democracy MP Drama, Dimitrios Kyriazidis, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the planning of the Ministry for the new anti-missile period, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction Mr. Toska, on the grounds of repeated obligations. The third under No 852/10-5-2016 topical question by MP Halkidiki of the New Republic, George Vayon, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, concerning ‘the unscrupulous fallen of ‘40’ and the current immoral demand of the Albanian Ministry of Foreign Affairs’, is not discussed due to the obstruction of the State Secretary of Foreign Affairs, Mr Amanatidis, on the grounds of past obligations. The second question under number 881/17-5-2016 is the first-round question of Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Laris of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the payment of compensation to the rose growers of the Larisi Prefecture for their production destroyed by a recent frost, is not discussed due to an impediment by the Minister for Rural Development Mr.Apostolos, on the grounds of misappropriated obligations. The first with number 873/16-5-2016 topical question - it is to the same Minister - of the MP Evros of the New Republic, Mr Anastasios Grassakis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the timely spraying of mosquitoes - is not being discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. Also, the second question under number 882/17-5-2016 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr.Ioannis Delis, to the Ministers for Rural Development and Food, and the Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the payment of compensation to farmers from the Municipality of Soufli of the Regional Unit of Evros, due to the disasters in natural and animal capital since the floods of 2015, is not discussed. Also, the fifth under No 846/9-5-2016 topical question by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Maniotis to the Minister of Health, concerning the immediate treatment of the issue of the on-site child in Argolida, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Polakis, cause: workload. The sixth question under number 825/254-2016 is a topical question for the second parliamentary court of Piraeus, Mr. Theodoras Megalonou, Minister of Health, concerning the residual functioning of the Anticancer Hospital of Metaxas. It is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Polakis. It's because of the workload. Also, the eighth under number 799/19-4-2016 topical question by the Plenipotentiary Halkidiki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Catherine Iglezi to the Minister of Health, concerning the needs of the Artificial Nebula Unit of the General Hospital of Halkidiki, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Polakis. It's because of the workload. Also, the ninth ninth question under number 708/28-3-2016 by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy Mr Christos Stakouras to the Minister of Health, concerning the problem of the General Hospital of Lamia, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Polakis. It's because of the workload. Also, the seventh under number 829/254-2016 topical question by the Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks on the old debt 90cm. The euro in urban buses, due to the previous administrations, is not debated because of the impediment of the Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Mr. Spirtzi. Because the meeting with the Chinese Ambassador. The second under number 858/12-5-2016 topical question of the F' Vice-President of the Parliament and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Finance, regarding the collapse of the economy of the Dodecanese, is not discussed due to the extraordinary impediment of the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Alexiadis. The second, under number 851/10-5-2016, topical question of the second-cycle question of the Athens Parliamentary, New Democracy, Mrs. Catherine Papakostas - Ironropoulou, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the change of attitude of the Greek Government to the International Monetary Fund (IMF), is not being discussed due to the absence of the Minister of Finance, Mr. Tsakalotou, abroad. The fourth under number 855/10-5-2016 topical question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Sakis Vardalis to the Minister of Finance regarding the Greek Vehicle Industry (ELBO S.A.), is not discussed due to the absence of the Minister of Finance Mr. Tsakalotou abroad. The third under number 871/16-5-2016 topical question by Independent MEP II Athens Theocharis Theocharis to the Minister of Finance regarding the suspension of extended hours of Customs V and F Piraeus, is not being discussed due to the absence of the Minister of Finance Mr. Tsakalotou abroad. The first 3062/10/10/2016 question by the Independent MEP Mr Leonida Gregorakos to the Minister of Finance on the compensation of the Partners of Cooperative Banks will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister of Finance Mr Tsakalotou abroad. The first question under number 874/16-5-2016, first question by MP Heraklion of the New Democracy, Eleftherios Aegeanakis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning the harmonisation of Greek legislation by the regulation of the "International Cycling Federation" for the cycling of HEMEs, is not discussed due to a blockade by the Member of Parliament in question. The third under number 883/17-5-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Ioannis Giokas to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, concerning the criminalisation and repression of agricultural mobilisations, is not being discussed due to the impediment of the questioner. The first question under number 872/16-5-2016, first question of the New Democracy MP, George Stylios, to the Minister of National Defence, concerning the Government's intentions to make use of the Neosclear School of Education, is not discussed in consultation of the Deputy Minister with the relevant Minister. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Prime Responsibility of the Ministers", as in force, on 20-5-2016, a criminal case for the former Deputy Prime Minister, Evangelos Venizelos. Congressman Trikalon Mr Konstantinos Skrekas is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from 29-5-2016 until 3-6-2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-23-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore approved the requested permission. We are entering the debate on the only timely question for today. It is the fourth under number 843/9-5-2016 topical question of the topical and urgent question of Friday 20 May 2016, MP Kavala of the New Democracy Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the payment of the funding of school committees for the payment of school cleaners. The Minister will answer Mr. Friends. Mr. Panayotopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-23-S1-commons.u3	Today that we have the exclusive right to carry out parliamentary control, I think it is a good opportunity to deal with a matter of social reference, which I bring to Parliament before you, namely the question of financing and paying for school cleaning in schools in the territory, on the basis of the delays in payments made in my constituency, where I have the data and I know the situation, which is the case in Kavala. I bring the timely question for three reasons. Firstly, because it is certainly about a matter of social everyday life, which is worth trying to resolve, since it is also in the interests of the uninterrupted operation of school units. You understand how important this is. Educational work, then, and in your direct authority. Secondly, it also has some issues of rational distribution of responsibilities to the public administration, since by law the funding of the school committees is made by the Youth and Lifelong Learning Foundation, INEDIDIDIM, which supervises your Ministry and therefore this scheme is a bit pointless. Thirdly, it is worth resolving this problem, namely the uninterrupted payment of school-leaving staff, to benefit these beneficiaries, because they are women workers, with a low wage of around EUR 300 per month, is their pay overall - and they certainly must not and do not deserve this delay of payments. Finally, this question comes as a timely one, after another, simple question I had tabled before, because of the timeline for payment. I mean, I explain it and I close it, to answer it. On 3 February 2016, I had tabled a simple question on the subject. On 25 February 2016, you replied. Meanwhile, the cleaners were unpaid for a few months of 2016 and no payment schedule had been set. On April 20, 2016, while the cleaners remained unpaid, I tabled a timely question, as we entered the Easter period and as you can see, there were some needs to pay some money, and on April 28, the Great Thursday, the school cleaners were paid for the period January-April 2016. Therefore, this specific scheme to cover operating costs should be changed, because the municipalities, which are the ones who raise and the burden of this delay, but also the responsibility of unavoidable payment, often delay, transfer funds or rather resources from other codes, from other funds, to pay this expenditure. Several of them, such as the Municipality of Kavala, also bear the burden of paying for the hospitality of various refugees in hospitality centres, and therefore, as you can see, a difficult situation is being created in terms of managing the funds. You could - and this is the solution I am proposing - take care to find these funds - which are already set at the beginning of the school year - at the local government agencies with a calculation so that these delays and transfers from one government to the other ministry, the municipalities and, ultimately, the final beneficiaries do not exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-23-S1-commons.u4	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-23-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Colleague, you've done very well. I agree with you, the cleaners have actually been paid for the period up to April. In other words, they're paid. May and June remain, and I believe that there will be a timely payment of this money. I say 'I believe' because the flow of the grant from the relevant ministries - by the Ministry of Education at the moment - depends on the flow of the finances of the Ministry of Finance. We - and I mean INEDIAM - are middlemen. We simply offer technical assistance for the payment of thousands of cleaners throughout Greece. We could think of other ways, so that without bypassing and peculiar mediators paying money on time. I forgot to tell you that there is an issue of the overall reform of the school cleaning system. We are aware that there is little money available from cleaners, we are aware that the solution to the contractors is a solution, which does not help clean schools. We should think of other ways, such as Community cooperative enterprises (Communism). In any case, however, we must ensure the regular flow of the grant from the Ministry of Finance, as you have said, and we will study it as you have said, is an interesting proposal - through institutions directly directed at local government, given that the school committees are related to local government and local government is responsible for the operation of schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-23-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Panayotopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-23-S1-commons.u7	Minister, I do not think there is much to say, because we are basically in agreement. I just think this is an opportunity to give some direction to changing the way in which the problem is solved. Badly - to say, as I feel it - it is the Youth and Lifelong Learning Foundation, INEDIBIM, responsible for paying school cleaners. That could change. This power could be transferred - and if you wish - because this is ultimately what this is about - to the local government agencies, to the municipalities, because they have the power, if you wish, to establish and implement the issue of the cleaning up of school units, with the employment of school cleaners. The funds are not too much, really, but they are not as important as the way and, above all, the timely payment to these working women. I think you should see the transfer of this competence directly to the structures of local government, because in any case local government structures are dealing with it - so to speak - very deep daily life in the operation of each state structure and ultimately also bear greater pressure and responsibility. And I certainly do not see, as far as expenditure is concerned, how things are getting easier. For example, I think that the levying of fuels will be a great burden on budgets and therefore additional difficulties will be created in the timely payment of these payments. In any case, however, I think it's worth it to see. After all, every government and yours will have already realised that it is judged in the consciousness of the ordinary citizen and not so much by its performance on large and very large, but by its performance in solving the problems of very simple everyday life. So you can see it in this direction and facilitate the pace of payment of the school clearers directly through local government structures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-23-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, too. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-23-S1-commons.u9	Mr President, everyday life is indeed an area in which we are all judged, because the state's capacity to provide practical solutions to the problems of citizens is being tested, and at the same time the ability of other institutions elected, such as local government, to respond to the legitimate demands of citizens. Of course, everyday life, the way we deal with it, it also forms a new culture in society and the citizens, a participatory culture. And the problems of everyday life, of course, are, to a large extent, related to state welfare and prediction, but to a large extent, they also have to do with the involvement of citizens. In this direction, obviously, a great reform of the state is necessary. It is necessary, to a lesser degree, to go through problem-solving and not insist on an extreme centralist conception of the functioning of the state. That means not just transferring responsibilities but transferring resources. We are in this direction as a government, that is to say, to strengthen by transferring resources and responsibilities to local government and other institutions of participatory democracy. Of course, we are aware of the problems of budgetary stability. However, these can be dealt with and, above all, there can be better control over the flow of state funding by the fruitful and decisive involvement of the 'citizen' factor, because otherwise there is a red tape which is at the expense of the interests of the citizens. Your proposal to simplify the payment of cleaners, in order to give money to bodies associated with local government, which is responsible for paying this money, is correct and I will also transfer it to the Ministry of the Interior, so that in the new school year we can find a better way of making time for the money. I would like to assure you that the government's main concern is not to postpone, with the harsh budgetary reality, the resolution of the daily pressing problems, but to fight to judge ourselves in this area as a society for resolving daily pressure problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-23-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, too, Minister. In reply to the Minister, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-23-S1-commons.u11	With the agreement of the House at 17.25 minutes the sitting on Wednesday, May 25, 2016, at 10.00, on the subject of this House's legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
