ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We start by reading the questions, which will not be discussed, to follow those which will be discussed today, which are only four. The first question under number 112/17-10-2016, first question by the Member of Parliament, Mr. Mavroudi Voridis, to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, on the “murdering gang attack against the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs - NLFK - ATHI of Thessaloniki”, will not be discussed due to a blockade by the Member of Parliament in question. Also, the fifth under number 44/10-2016 topical question by MP Serres of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr.Michael Jelloris to the Minister of Homeland and Administrative Reconstruction, on the submissiveness of the Directorate of Police of Serres, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the questioned Member. They will not be discussed as a result of an impediment to the competent ministers and will be redefined for discussion the following topical questions: The second, with number 131/17-10-2016, is a timely question for the first cycle of the Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotaras to the Minister of Finance, on the "Legislative arrangement for extending approved expenses beyond hospitals", will not be discussed due to an impediment (workload) of the Minister, Mr. Tsakalotou and will be redefined for discussion. The third, with number 96/14-10-2016, a top-circuit question from the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Health, on the range of use of telemedicine in Greece, will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Pavaki, who will be in Syria for service. For the same reason, the eighth question, under number 85/11-10-2016, will not be discussed for the second time by MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Sakis Vardalis to the Minister of Health, on the problems of the Anticancer Hospital "Theamenio" in the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki. In the course of the debate, I will read the other topical questions that will not be discussed. It will now be discussed the first with number 113/17-10-2016 topical question by MP Evros of New Democracy Mr Anastasios Purchassakis to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the reflection and concern of ELSTAT, on the demographics of the country and especially of Evros. The Deputy Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction will answer Mr. Christoforos Vernardakis. Mr. Treasury, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the recent data of the Hellenic Statistical Authority show our country's population ageing and shrinking dramatically. From 2011 to 2015, the population of the country decreased by ninety thousand In the five-year period of the memoranda a large Greek city, a Alexandroupolis, has been practically lost. Are we aware of the size of the loss? Features are the data for eastern Macedonia and Thrace, where we had four thousand nine hundred fifty births and seven thousand four hundred twenty one deaths. In our region, the situation is more disappointing because of the new migration as a result of the crisis. Despair is the situation in Evros, which also takes national dimensions, considering that some of our villages are on the border with two foreign countries nearby, with all that that means to dramatically reduce their population. This dramatic decline in the population is evident to have a slightly adverse effect on our Armed Forces as regards the manning, the staffing of military units, at a time when neighbouring Turkey is escalating its aggression with the statements of its leader and other officials regarding the Lausanne Treaty. Since the beginning of the crisis, half a million new immigrants have left our country, most young people and educated, who have studied with the backlog of the Greek people. They will have two children on average in the next decade. So you realise that a million Greek birds will be born in foreign countries, of the five hundred thousand who left from 2000-2015. So you're asking me, Mr. Minister: What is the plan to re-enact the five hundred thousand young people who left? What's your national demographic policy? What are you doing to support the Greek family, especially for the threeteen and many families? What is your plan for the development of border regions, particularly Evros and Thrace? What measures are you planning to strengthen local and regional entrepreneurship? What opportunities will you give young people to stay home and not to emigrate? Do you intend to set up the Intergroup Committee on Thrace, which in the past has done a significant national project for the region, and has been asked by the previous Parliament by questioning all the Members of the New Democracy? Madam President, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u4	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Colleagues, I think you are raising a matter which concerns a lot of people. It concerns all the political parties. It is not all the issues of my competence, as you understand it, so I cannot give a comprehensive plan and speak on behalf of all the ministries and politicians currently conducting it. What I can tell you is this: you are, first of all, putting forward a real problem regarding the reduction of the population. This, as you can see, has many causes, it has causes social, economic, is the result of the deep economic crisis and the policies imposed, especially after 2010 in the country. What I can tell you at the moment is that, in terms of returning all this huge human potential that has left the country and which is a high level of human resources, the government does indeed exercise policies. One of these policies is for the first time, after several years, to open up positions at universities, with the recruitment of a thousand teaching staff. It is also the very systematic policy in the field of research - why not forget that this is the country's strong human potential. Obviously we look forward to a development that is just and socially and regionally, and in that sense there are those specific policies that need to be carried out in specific regions, such as Evros in particular. Obviously, I am also in agreement that the House could take an initiative to re-establish the Intergroup on Thrace issues. I wouldn't object. As far as specific issues are concerned, with regard to administrative policies, I would like to tell you that what was in the matter of mobilising recruitment in the public service, what was in the Staff Code in relation to family facilities, what was there in connection with the reinforcement of childbirth, maternity leave and remuneration for child rearing, what was in the law on employment and the family situation, all of this is obviously maintained. With the Mobility Act, which comes in the next few days in this House to debate, all these provisions will be strengthened so that the border regions and Thrace in particular - not only because they have a major problem with the islands, especially because of the refugee flows, but of course I also recognise that Thrace is a key part of this problem - to have their own share in this policy. Everything that exists and every effort will be made to strengthen it. That's all for now. I'll come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Treasury, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your wrong policies have brought us a new memorandum with tougher measures and a deeper recession. Instead of growth, you're imposing taxes. Instead of investment, as my fellow citizens are protesting, you have flooded the country with refugees and economic migrants - and we are living in this scenario every day - while you are persecuting with the policies you are implementing Greek birds into new immigration. Instead of supporting families, you're cutting off pensions. Instead of joining the people and society, you divide it. Minister, the solution to demographic is to support the family, which is the most powerful institution of our society and nation. The explosive work cocktail and increased taxes are an insurmountable obstacle to any new couple who wants to have a child today. At the same time, there must be substantial incentives for multitude and third families. Other privileges, such as incentives to unemployed members of these families, can be given to agriculture, livestock, innovation and not only. But you must look at the desperate situation in the Greek region of East Macedonia and Thrace and especially in Evros, my constituency and my country. That is why I call on you publicly to design your ministry visits of government officials and all Members, if possible, of the Greek Parliament and to visit Evros because, as you know, you have the signature and the seal of the state and you should make decisions. You should make decisions quickly because these problems want to be tackled immediately. Let the inhabitants themselves firsthand describe the situation and the desertification they experience near our borders. Unfortunately, the promises of a wider development plan were not kept in the Law and Samothraki through the development law, thus leaving the good minds of our region. Also, your Minister, Mr. Kourublis, promised as a Minister of Health that he would provide a solution within two months when it comes to the operation and self-sufficiency of our hospital, the Dumot Hospital. Unfortunately, it has been a year and a half since and still solved the hospital problem. The demographic parameter is a matter of national security and sovereignty over Evros. We need a concrete plan in a difficult Memorandum environment - we understand it - where families are suffocating. But what you said, Minister, you did not convince me. Every day Evros and Thrace should be the first priority in your government program. Obviously, you do not understand the danger and do not show such interest. It is disappointing that you do not have as a government a project to tackle the demographic problem. You have historical responsibilities and your excuses I think they're over. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u8	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u9	I'm gonna need less time. I don't think I have much to answer. You will agree on one thing, Your Honour. I do not think that demographically speaking you would pay it to us as a problem because it is a problem of many decades. I therefore think that what you say, only as a self-critic for your own policy, I can take it. Now, from there on, obviously, you're bringing a matter. It is clear that there is evidence that we can see. I will obviously recommend and do everything I can to the extent of my responsibilities, so that there can be special attention to Eastern Macedonia and Thrace. Now for the refugees you are talking about, I do not think you are on a right path. We are proud of our refugee policy. We do not believe that this is the refugee, which has exacerbated the Thrace case. It's been many decades now that I hear it. It has been a long time since we heard about underdevelopment, deinvestment, the exclusion policies that have been followed in specific populations in this region. In any case, I think we can understand the fact that it is clear that, like every region in the country, it must have its own share in development, for which we must contribute to being fairer and more balanced.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u10	Thank you. The third question under number 87/12-10-2016 of a timely second question of the MP Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARMAR Kefalidou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning the delimitation of the archaeological sites of Veroia, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr Baltas, due to unsuccessful obligations. The seventh question under number 62/10-10-2016, on the second question by Evia MP, Evia, the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou, Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the "displacement of thirty-six thousand seven hundred, nine hundred Greek children from nursery stations" will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Panagiotis Kouroublis, due to unsettled commitments. The fourth question under number 61/10-10-2016, with regard to the calculation of the main pensions of the NAT, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment - irresponsible obligations - of the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr. Petersburg. The fourth question under number 127/18-10-2016, first question by the Member of Parliament, Aitolakaranania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister for Research and Religious Education, on the problems of student housing at the University of Epirus, will not be discussed due to a blockade by the Deputy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Zias Anagnastopoulou. For the same fact, questions which, as you know, will no longer be answered by the government's Special Secretariat, along with the reasons why questions are not answered. Series is the second with number 132/17-10-2016 topical question by Evia MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the repatriation of mercury waste from Aspropyrgos to Germany. The question by Mr Michu will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Ioannis Tsironis. Mr. Micho, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u11	Thank you. Minister, in Aspropyrgos it remained a shipment of metal mercury, which was passed through Germany. As of 1 January 2014, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union in respect of imports into the Union of certain agricultural products originating in the People's Republic of China. It was then established at a meeting in 2015 that the consignment is waste and not a product. The return to Germany was a one-way road, and in Greece there was no licensed mercury storage space and in the event of leakage the effects are toxic to both man and the ecosystem. Finally, the repatriation of this dangerous load in Germany has been achieved in two instalments. In what way have so many tons of dangerous mercury load been illegally transferred to Aspropyrgos without being understood? Then what was the procedure whereby transnational cooperation was concluded to carry such a dangerous burden? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u12	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr von Wogau, you are raising an issue that has indeed been very alarming to us. It's one of those issues you're wondering if you have to pick them up politically in order to find a quick solution on the other hand, it inspires to be notified. Because if any thermo-head or malicious person knew this information that there were these tons of mercury in our country, he could do an action that would make Attica uninhabited, probably, for many dozens of years. So really, honestly, when we received the Ministry and found out what's there, for those who know what liquid mercury means, we realized that it had to be transported immediately, but at the same time synergies had to be done so that no one knew, at least no wrong person, that mercury is there, because the danger was huge for our city. In your first question, how so many tons of hazardous waste have been illegally transported to Greece, I think our predecessors should answer. You have in your written question a slight inaccuracy. It was not August 2016, it was August 2014 notified by Germany to Greece. That's where we learned illegal transport from their own investigations. As far as we know, mercury was baptized on import while it was waste. Therefore, waste could not be used, but of course neither as a product could such material be stored. Next, I think - and I mention briefly the dates - that on 4-3-2015 we had a meeting, we wrote to Germany immediately. Germany has, of course, been throwing the ball at the platform in popular terms and did not want to take responsibility for it. She did not want to take responsibility for the fact that the waste came from her country and therefore she had to return to her country. We also had to write a letter to the committee and, of course, to the relevant Minister of State. Finally, we have come to the happy fact that at some point Germany has taken on financial responsibility, that the accredited carrier has been found to receive the dangerous material. They came and received it and finally, with two transports, legally and fully accredited, they left our country. Let me mention, of course, that, on 25-8-2015, we also fined the two companies, 194,000 euros each, precisely because the material was transported illegally to Greece and with illegal certificates as a product and on the other hand, that it was stored in a place that had no guarantee either for an accident or for a malicious action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u14	Mr. Michos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u15	Thank you. There's another matter. There has been a return of fifty one tons that had come since 2011. We're talking about junkies carrying this waste, crossing the border and nothing was found. This is where they find more, Minister. It must have fallen very thick in some pockets, in customs and other bodies. You need to look at it. This must be the case for the Attorney's Office. Then, as you have said, the baptism of waste in products. Who baptized the waste in products? Who's got stamps that signed up to make the waste goods? We want names. We want something to happen. And the waste Mrs Merkel sent to our home country to take them to the court of her country house or to the voters, not to Greece. It's not a waste country, Greece. And there must be responsibility for them. And on the other hand, if there was a licensed mercury storage space, would we store it here? Why? There have already been too many illegal waste, chemical waste in factories, toxic waste in factories. If, for example, we take the Oinofytas near Evia, Boeotia, there is a mess. They're throwing things into drilling. Do we have our own, do we have foreign waste? You need to look into it, we need to get an intervention. And they must begin to appear slowly, who are responsible, who sign and who allow all this to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u16	The Minister has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Madam President. As I said, mercury was not introduced into Greece as waste, it would be completely illegal. She was imported as a product, had certificates as a product. So the illegality starts with the sender. I will not disagree with you that it is possible for customs officers here, although I think it is very difficult - because I happen to be a chemist - to separate liquid mercury from a liquid mercury product. Visually it's exactly the same. They're both in bottles exactly the same form. So I think that illegality should be controlled in the German territory with the shipping cards. And - I think that she is getting away from the answer - I am not the Minister responsible for answering, because neither the customs belong to the Ministry of the Environment, our responsibility, nor I have the mechanism to monitor what happened, and when the material first came. We learned as a country in 2014 that the material is in Greece. And - I say again - there was too much difficulty in raising this issue. Because I have explained that if any explosion occurs at the moment and leaks into the mercury atmosphere, it is so much his toxicity that not 90 tonnes, but a kilo of mercury is enough to empty an entire city like Aspropyrgos. It's a scary matter of matter toxicity. And if this material falls on the ground, because it is wet and in time evaporates - as all the liquids - in infinitely traces, it is capable of destroying for decades - I tell you - the atmosphere of a region. So I do not think that our concern when we had this toxic bomb in the heart of our city was at that time to start picking up public prosecutors' investigations, which would make the issue so much public, which we would really be hostages of every malicious man, every enemy of our country, every man who would like to cause a disaster in Greece. We were looking to keep the matter as low as we could and we were trying to keep the correspondence in a similar way. That is why we did not triumph when we were able to get rid of them. Because we could triumph that we found lawless predecessors and we did better than they did. This was not the case, because it is things for which it is good to remain silent for the sake of clear safety for the health of our citizens and the safety of our country. From that point on, I will not disagree that we have now received a situation that is really unfair. May I mention that a few days ago we uncovered in Sycamino illegal HDTP that has been operating for decades? Let us say that there is currently no landfill area in Greece, so that the law-abiding industrialists are forced to make huge transport costs abroad, while instead those who are not law-abiding to compete unfairly? Let me mention that at the moment there are tens of thousands of tons of big companies, which if we are now cutting off the rope and getting up and running, will we also have waste and job losses? So we have to act very wisely in such an absurd way. I think we have been doing this so far. We're working and we're solving the problems. Problems with complaints are not solved. On the other hand, whether or not the prosecutor should or should not intervene, the question - and here we have our colleague, Minister for Justice - is to judge whether the offence is self-determination. Obviously, it must be self-government. It is a criminal act of the illicit trafficking of such materials. And I think that from there, now on, such actions could be carried out which, I say, do not concern our own ministry. What we can say, however, about mercury is that we have managed, without too much exacerbation of the issue, to force through the committee, but above all through our own actions, the German Government to assume its responsibilities and leave the material from the country. And let me say something else, Madam President. Yes, we searched for legal space in Greece, because we did not know how long it will take for the Germans to bow to our own pressures. Every day he spent for us was a horror. Yes, we searched for Greek companies that could potentially safely store such dangerous material. Fortunately, we didn't have to. Fortunately, we got the facts, the Germans accepted their responsibilities, took the material, left at their own expense, with their own certified transfer, and so we got rid of the nightmare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u18	Thank you. The sixth question will now be discussed under number 66/10-10-2016 of the second Athens Parliamentary Committee of New Democracy Mr. Catherine Papakostas - Ironropoulou to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights regarding the request to cover empty organic positions by the Union of Judges and Prosecutors. The Minister will answer Mr Nikolaos Paradopoulos. Mrs. Papakostas, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, you realise that the climate of justice is already quite heavy. As far as I am concerned, my question is a long way from what I personally despise democracy, namely to show populism, by exercising my opposition duties in such a sensitive area. So, away from me, populism. I am interested in the essence of the problem, which has already emerged from the Association of Judges and Prosecutors, since 23 September 2016, where the Union of Judges and Prosecutors desperately called for the immediate intervention of the relevant Minister - you - in order to cover serious gaps in the area of justice. I must say that in the last bill on research and innovation, in fact, with an amendment by you, Mr Minister, you have gradually increased the positions of the judicial officers of criminal justice and administrative justice. This shows, of course, on the part of the Ministry that you obviously recognise the political leadership, the problem and the request of the Union of Judges and Prosecutors, and you are obviously aware that the situation is too serious in the midst of a heavy political climate, because the attack that the justice of this moment is being committed is unprecedented, because it is unprecedented and the problems it is being asked to face. Personally, I am opposed to the attack on the judges from all the wings, when this is unleashed at the time we put heavy burdens on their shoulders, to decide very seriously about the Greek Republic, but I have to say that your response, through the amendment, is less than your expectations, because you realise that the needs that are great, which have been borne because of the six-month abstention of lawyers, are also below your expectations. You realise that the rapid administration of justice over time has been a big issue, and now it is even more widespread and you are called upon to get rid of the circumstances, that is to say, to cover precisely the needs, which have economic implications, apart from the rapid administration of justice and the conviction of the Greek citizen that his case will be dealt with quickly and given to him the law. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u20	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u21	Mrs Papakotas, I was given that you will not be subject to any populism, to refer to other matters outside the subject. Your question is, indeed, interesting. I must tell you that, of course, the needs are great for both judges and prosecutors. That is why one of the first actions of the current Ministry of Justice was to ensure that new organic positions and the appointment of new peacekeepers were created. This went on and we have the call for a hundred and ninety-four places of peace, which are already in progress, precisely because in the peace courts a special deficit had been identified from the outset, since these are also to deal with issues relating to red loans. Then, of course, there were other needs. I have to say - it is well known, perhaps, but I have to say very quickly - that the possibilities for finding judges have two ways of satisfying them. One is to promote judges from those who are already in the judiciary to top positions, so that we have, for example, sevens, and the other is to introduce new judges into the Judiciary so as to increase the total number. The latter cannot be done unlimitedly because, as you know, well or badly - but rather badly - the School of Judges is financed by the NRP, the possibility of covering posts is limited, so every year we cannot have a significant number of increases. In the context of these possibilities, therefore, we have managed to have an increase in the number of judges. I think it has already been made clear that a number of positions have been dealt with as a matter of priority, precisely because there has been an urgent need for judges to take up administrative justice in order to meet new needs relating to the creation of new committees of appeal, but also for prosecutors to take up duties in areas where refugees are established. These needs and emergencies were particularly urgent - the needs, that is, the staff of the appeal committees with judges - and that justified introducing this amendment into an irrelevant law, the law on education, by this urgent procedure and a rapid vote. However, because, as you can see, the needs are greater, the Ministry of Justice will seek to establish other positions. The three positions of virtue required, due to the inability to provide the services to the three Areopagites, as we have been informed, will take place as a priority in the forthcoming legislation of the Ministry of Justice and the other positions they need, will be planned with the next legislation, but with the limitations that I have mentioned to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u22	Ms. Papakosta has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, Professor of Law, because we are colleagues in legal science, you understand much better than anyone else - I understand that, too, everyone shares that, but more so, we are dealing with the legal things and the administration of justice - that citizens' refuge is justice. I have heard your colleagues earlier that these were matters before, the predecessors and so on. Long-term, the country suffered. It was involved in this matter. But that is not an alibi or, if you like, the economic crisis to continue at the same pace. I am pleased that you said earlier that, at the level of virtues and vice-presidents of the Ice Bay - because there are also biological issues, there are people who cannot cope with it, because of health problems with what this means - that you will resolve the matter or, at any rate, consider a way to resolve it. I have to tell you, however, that my interest is focused beyond the anxiety expressed by the judges, precisely because they want to give justice and we have to recognise them, precisely because they want to defend the citizens' demands for the administration of their law and that we also have to recognise them. And I would like here to focus - and there you will also have my support, although if you do so - beyond the well-known issues of economic hardship, which are also over our days and even more today, on the fact that there are issues of justice for citizens who have resorted to justice with applications for membership of the Katselis law. There we have a big social problem. There's a social legend ready to explode. And that's what's going on? Because it is very simply expected on the basis of statistics, logic and judicial practice, as things have shaped, especially now after the six-month abstention, that these cases will be avenged, even in 2030, with what this reasonably implies for the citizens, who want to solve their problem, which is serious for them, and in particular those who want to join the Katselis law. Also, they did not simply appeal because they had a desire to award law to any request. They appealed, Minister, Professor of Law, to justice because of the economic crisis, because they have very serious and significant difficulties in repaying their debts. And this is a very serious issue, to which you must give priority, you must see it with increased sensitivity, which I do not want to deprive you of the right to have, as I have it. Furthermore, I would like to say that since the unjustified cases are about seven hundred thousand, of which the three hundred and twenty have not been tried because of the well-known abstention of my colleagues, who had their own requests, you must strongly put it to the Prime Minister, you must put it very strongly, because, as I have said before, - and I am closing down with that, Madam President - this is a very serious matter for the rapid administration of the law through justice, the impeccable functioning of justice. If she has executives, she will quickly award justice. It has economic implications, therefore, and also concerns the prestige of the country, because, as you can see, especially those who are following us from outside and watching Greek justice, always have a bad reason to say not about adequacy, not about the quality of judicial decisions, but about the non-fast administration of justice. I think that this and Greek justice are also unfair to its officials and the intentions of all of us. Here, then, the field - and that is where you will have me, as I imagine all the wings of this House, awe and a supporter - to exert a great deal of pressure to give justice because of the consequences that arise. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u24	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u25	Thank you. I shall be very brief, Mrs Papakostas, because, in principle, I have neither objected nor received a huge reserve of outstanding cases nor that we now have responsibilities to manage it in a way that leads to an acceleration or that in certain cases involving loans, they are a very important problem of justice. After all, the nomination of peacekeepers, which I mentioned earlier, took place on a priority basis precisely because of the need to manage this very large number of cases. I must also inform you that there have also been redefinitions of cases within a shorter period of time with the strengthening of the pacifist courts. So we have shorter deadlines in most of the pacifist courts, much more than those that were scaring us at first. Otherwise, I do not miss the opportunity to repeat that slowness is the main problem of Greek justice - not, of course, quality, slowness - and that all the effort of the government and some of the reforms which are being proposed to us at the moment on the institutional side have as a prospect of speeding up. I hope that's starting to bear fruit. Mostly we need better equipment - in particular the electronic interconnection of the courts - staff and certain legislative reforms, so that we can achieve impressive results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u26	Thank you. We enter the last one, on the fifth, with number 98-14-10-2016, a top-stage question for the first-round question of the Serres Parliamentary of the Union of Centres Mr Anastasios Megalamustakas to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction on the degraded situation in the hospitality of Serres Prefecture. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Ioannis Mousalas. Mr. Bigfoot, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u27	Minister, today's topical is a follow-up to the question I asked on 19 September, which was made following my visit to the refugee hospitality centre in Serres, where many problems arose both in the conditions of refugees' residence and in their feedingstuffs. In fact, in the question I asked you, I warned you that if it continued and if we did not act immediately to improve these conditions, it is very likely that there will be strong protests and even some extreme behaviours. I'm afraid I verified. Fortunately, there were no extreme behaviours, but intense protests by refugees. We have seen that they are dissatisfied with both the conditions and the feeding. I consider the answer you gave me to this question to be unsatisfactory and incomplete. That's why I came back with the timely question. You specifically replied to me - to make it clear more clearly - that the tender for the contractor to improve the conditions of refugee residence will end on 26 October and within 60 days the contractor has the responsibility of implementing and delivering the work. Unfortunately, history has shown us that contractors are out of scope. And if we're talking for sixty days from October 26, we're getting to Christmas, December 26th. Weather conditions in Serres are already very difficult. On cold nights the temperature has reached the five degrees Celsius. In December, conditions will be even more difficult for people to live in. So I ask you now, without any sign of irony and all due respect - and I want you to answer - the following: Do you bear in mind how it is possible for people to survive under these conditions, especially children, because the majority of refugees in Serres are children, as I think you will know? Also, within what time limits - a little more specifically - you intend to make the habitats intended for the establishment of refugees ready, always taking into account the particularly difficult weather conditions that are very soon to prevail in the region. I would also like to ask whether you intend to deal with the issue that has arisen in relation to feeding conditions, as phenomena have been observed in which many refugees throw their food. I'm sure no one here thinks they're doing it because they're just not hungry. There's something else going on. Please, I'd like to hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u28	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Madam President. My colleague, in a lot of what you say, you're right. But I would like to tell you that if you have been to Serres recently you will also have seen enough of what you have written in your timely question, we have moved on. The contest that was to take place on October 26th and finally goes to November 1st. That's what you need to know that it's not up to us. The project has been undertaken by the International Organisation for Migration and is in the process of making the money that has been received by institutions and non-governmental organisations from DG - Echo to stay at our place. The International Organisation for Migration is a very reliable organisation. So what I can express to you is my personal view that things will go according to design, without being able to predict whether it will be a week or a week later. Of the issues you raise, most of them have been solved. I'm glad you said we didn't have extreme phenomena. We had a gathering of refugees and immigrants who wanted to make their position distinct in society. I want to tell you, too, this is Gezidi. The Gezidi are a well-trained race in which we as a state show a very great solidarity. We've received a thank-you letter - unfortunately, I don't have it with me, but I can bring it to you - from the Gezidi responsible for the Adas, the way we've treated the Gezidis. The structure in Serres will be a model structure. And at the same time that we are preparing to build the permanent structure, the decent, etc., we are starting the replacement procedures of the scenes. We've already transported thirty containers up and transported more until the work is done. As far as feeding is concerned, the problem with cesit is well known. There's everywhere. Every case they throw away their food and complain about food. I think we should accept this with a heartyness, although there are many Greeks who would like to have three meals free of charge a day, understanding the difficulties these people have. After all, the plan we have drawn up as a government with DG Echo is that by Christmas, from the new year to the cash, the pool will be replaced with a voucher with which people will be able to shop and cook in kitchens that will have no more in the houses and not in the tents and which will have some beneficial effects on local society. In this sense, we have taken your question very seriously. A lot of things like the police station, we healed them. We're trying very hard to be okay with these commitments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u30	Mr. Big-fashioned, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Madam President. It is indeed a happy fact that the people, the refugees, who have come to Serres are a peaceful and peaceful group of people. The Seraic people have welcomed them with great hospitality. There have been too many needs that, unfortunately, could not be met by the relevant bodies. In no case, however, do I question the credibility of the body responsible for the project. And finish the work a week ago, a week later, as you mentioned, we are talking about the end of December. Temperature in northern Greece is not ideal. The temperature is not like here in Athens where it is not often raining and there are no such low temperatures. That month, we may catch temperature and minus ten and minus seven and minus eight. These people are in an area where moisture is too high and there are no conditions in which people and especially young children can live, as I have said before. For fortunately or unfortunately, this is the structure and composition of the group of people in Serres. Also, you mentioned the ISOBOX issue for the cops. Yes, ISOBOX has come, but neither water nor sewerage nor electricity has been connected. I mean, it's useless. Refugees have been in the structure since 4 August and we estimate that the centre will be ready after five months at the end of December. I don't think what suits the occasion, unfortunately. We must act immediately, we must press as much as we can. I don't come here to be a convict and make a sterile opposition. I'm coming here to solve a problem. Refugees cannot survive in tents when it rains and when it snows. We need to act a little more quickly. I repeat that ISOBOX has indeed come. I don't know if you're aware that it's not connected to water, electricity and sewerage. It's useless right now. We must act immediately on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u32	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Colleague, I don't have much to say to you. I do not disagree with your final conclusion that we must act immediately. I think we are trying and acting within the framework of the possibilities available to us. And we act immediately. I told you before that I understood the conditions in northern Greece anyway. Meanwhile, the same time we're building the permanent structure, we're transferring homeowners to install them temporarily. We do two works together, that is, we do the extinction. Already in the fifty thousand, there are, they've distributed the winter clothes, gloves, waterproof, sleeping bags, blankets, all these things and a sum. Nevertheless, I consider it meaningless to oppose you, because I see that there is nothing to be opposed. We, therefore, agree as a government in your remarks. It remains to be proved that we will succeed with your help. I want to tell you that with local government, we have a good relationship with Serres, that is, it helps us, we don't have a break or anything like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, fifty students and students and six educational sessions from the 3rd Larisa Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the discussion of the RESEARCH The debate will be taken at No 1/1/4-10-2016 of the New Democracy MPs Georgios Koumoutsakos, Vasiliou Kikilia, Panagiotis Mitaraki, Emmanuel (Manos) Konsolas, Charalambou Athanasios, Constantinos Ah. Karamanlis, Anastasios (Tasu) Prussaki, Dimitrios Kyriazides and Konstantinos Tsiras to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the official complaints and "skies" in the management of the refugee. The first honourable Member of Athens, New Democracy, will begin for ten minutes. Speakers have been appointed by the questions. It's Mr. Kikilias, Mr. Mitarakis, Mr. Konsolas, Mr. Athanasios, Mr. Driskakis and Mr. Kyriazides. The Deputy Minister will speak on behalf of the government. Mr Georgiadis, by SYRIZA, Mr Michaelides, from the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Iliopoulou, from the Democratic Asylum PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Papatheodorou, from the KKE Mr. Katsotis, from Potami Mr. Psarianos, from ANELs Mr. Kokkalis and from the Centron Association Mr. Karras. Mr. Koumoutsakou has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is taking place in the heavy shadow of today's dramatic events in Moria, once again. The deadlocks in the refugee are growing instead of the government's claim to be limited. But you, Minister and gentlemen of the government, say that you are pleased even with the 'cut-offs'. That's what you said at your conference, Mr. Muzala, last week. You have said that you have done so in refugee law. Is this a government position? Finally, when will we get clear answers to big questions? There is a big issue for the refugee whole, from planning to implementation. Last episode was the resignation and complaints of scandalous financial management by your own Secretary-General, Mr. Buddouris. What was the reaction to his serious complaints? None. Instead of the Prime Minister, instead of Mr. Tsipras ordering an investigation immediately, he immediately accepted the resignation. It's all burned up, then! That's great! Soon afterward, however, in the same logic, we also had the resignation of the General Secretariat for the Management of Community Resources, Mrs Chalikia, who denounced personal self-interest, bad choices in the management of Community funds and policies which would benefit certain interests. The government is silent. Minister, even your own people can't withstand the extent and depth of corruption and partisanism that endures in your government. The ideologists who were next to you are deserted. That's the reality. It is an overall political issue at the end of the day. It is not a case, and that is what our question points out. But let's see, in detail, the pieces that make up this blurred picture, depressive, not to say tragic. As I said, today we had a new uprising at Moria's hot spot in Lesvos. Hundreds of immigrants are protesting about the long-term delay in examining asylum demands and their caging on the island. At the same time, the last 24 hours there has been a new increase in refugee flows. Over the last three days, thirty-three refugees and immigrants have been deported to the islands of the northern Aegean. In total, the number of displaced refugees and immigrants on these islands amounts to about ten and a half thousand, while the possibility of residence does not exceed five thousand. What are you going to do about it? International organisations are catastrophic about detention conditions. What do you say? We don't know for sure what the number of these people is yet. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Will you finally tell us if these claims are true? Just yesterday the news was made public that you set up a hot spot coordinator who has been arrested as a poacher. As far as I know, you haven't objected to this post until today. What are you doing? Don't you appoint coordinators? You're appointing circuits? How is that possible? What procedures did you follow? What are you going to do about it? As far as the unaccompanied children are concerned, in June, at a question I asked you, you presented a regularity in the management of this extremely sensitive issue, but without explaining to us why each of the co-punent bodies made a different assessment of the number of these children. What's due to the big divergences in this very sensitive field? Then you give assurances, but now you recognize that it will take about a year to stop being minors in the police department. What's the matter? Your ambiguous reassurances run counter to what the international organizations denounce. The report by Human Rights Watch points out: "The Greek Government justifies the detention of unaccompanied children as a temporary protection measure. In practice, however, this is not the case.’ And continues: "Children are automatically detained for prolonged periods of time." All of this has tragic consequences, among other things, for the recent incidents of rape in the Moria reception centre. Who takes responsibility for them? In the question I asked you, on 23 June, whether the government has taken care of improving services in the first reception of unaccompanied minors, you have not answered me. You have answered other questions, you have not answered me in this particular question. Finally, we learned from Mr Buddour that full responsibilities had not yet been conferred on the Secretary-General of the First Reception and Identification and the structures in question remained inactive. Obviously, in June you did not respond, because it had not even been obvious, that the relevant powers should be delegated. Today, Mr Musala, have responsibilities been assigned? Can you give us an answer? As to the costs of the refugee, what assessment is applicable? In February, the Bank of Greece talked about 600 million in 2016. You were talking about 1 billion, or 400 million differently. Is there a budget? What's the number? And Mr Buddour - I say again, the Secretary-General of the Government - claims that there is no. Is there an account, since there is no budget? Is it possible? Since we are on economic issues, what is the rate of absorption of resources available? Mr. Buddhur denounced that no 30% has been absorbed. What's the truth? Is there any money that's lost? Also, publications refer to the withdrawal of European funds and the dispatch of a European expert on management. Are these publications insurmountable? For there is a common basis for what Mr Buddour has said. Explain this coincidence? What about the work of 'Softex'? Minister, this is a very serious matter. We have heard about a project of 8.6 million, but the High Commissioner, by e-mail sent on 8 July, assessed the necessary costs of 1.5 million for the construction and full operation of such a camp. There are, in other words, nearly 7 million people. You're counting on them a lot more than the High Commissioner says. The discrepancy is great and I fear that the smell of mismanagement is great. Is there an explanation? Ladies and gentlemen, in February the New Democracy had expressed serious concerns about the night amendment brought by the Government under the 'parallel programme'. Then you institutionalised the possibility of making hot spots, feeding, health coverage and transporting refugees with direct assignments. Then our fears were confirmed, not arbitrarily, because your Secretary-General spoke of 'infinite delays, personal assignments and great contracts'. Meanwhile, local communities bore for the photographic award procedures. They say you prefer companies belonging to friends and chosen government. What do you say? What have you done about the transparency of the procedure? In Serres, the food competition of the five hundred refugees developed into a grey family case of SYRIZA. Apparently there is a matter of principle here and of moral order. It is yet another proof that your authorities are retreating at the first opportunity of an easy profit. We have heard, Minister, answer the complaints about direct awards that you yourself are Deputy Minister and you have no competence in contests, namely that you cannot sign anything on all these matters, and Mr Buddhur said that he has not been given any competence. So he asks the Greek citizen who is fundamentally following this debate: Who has power in this government? Because you simply accept complaints and place responsibility on others. Who are these 'others' at last? Who have the responsibilities? It's not clear. Wherever SYRIZA is going to close two years in the government, Minister, and now the Minister in charge - that is, you - comes to say that he has no authority and, in fact, does not have a ministry, for one of the hottest problems facing the country. It's time for your departure, and you still don't have a ministry. Well, fix it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One more minute, Madam President. You'll remove it from my dentistry. Ladies and gentlemen, we in the New Democracy are responsible for this issue of a national dimension. From the outset we did not opposition to the opposition. After all, we have also put forward specific proposals which, unfortunately, also for the country and for you, you are insisting on ignoring. We understand the complex dimensions of the phenomenon and the importance, in particular, of complying with the agreement between the European Union and Turkey on refugee issues, an agreement which is cancerous and, in any case, threatened by geopolitical liquidity and the lionisations of the neighbour, which follows a neo-Ottoman approach in general in its international relations. This cannot be a concern for what is going to happen with this agreement. Well, we're not oppositioning the opposition. It is, however, an institutional and democratic task to criticise and highlight the problems, as is a specific problem that seems to be taking scandalous proportions. It is our obligation to ask for persistent answers to citizens, because we systematically ask, but we do not receive answers on a systematic basis. Ladies and gentlemen, I regret to say this to the refugee, unfortunately - every day that passes, the conviction is that the humanitarian project put forward by the government in many cases hidden a plan, practices and acts of enrichment. Humanity was the covert, enrichment was the target. So we need clear answers, one by one, not wishing and extremism. The lectures are over. It's time for the answers. One last thing in the more general political dialogue. We heard the Prime Minister yesterday pulsating and splitting out in an extreme manner. Why is that? Every day that it passes, ladies and gentlemen, one dark revelation succeeds in the so-called moral rule of SYRIZA - ANEL. A government that so far boasted in unreliability is now sinking into moral deception. This is what I believe Mr Tsipras is trying to hide with the joy of saying in the Central Committee of SYRIZA. This is trying to hide behind insults and misery across and with the Chief of Officerial Opposition and President of New Democracy. But, ladies and gentlemen, nothing can hide anymore. Not even his people until yesterday do not follow him in his great choices. The caravan scattered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Kumucaco, you only have two minutes left for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u38	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u39	Now Mr. Kikilias, MP of Athens, New Democracy, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u40	Madam President, thank you very much. I won't get a second, so maybe I'll need a minute more. Minister, this is not a personal matter. It is, however, deeply political and, in order to get in fact, you have decided here on several occasions on our questions with the refugee question not to place yourself on the issue of your former Secretary-General, Mr Buddouris, unless your political opponents - in introductory or non-important - agree to adopt the charges, complaints or not. That does not dictate any common sense, and a priori we do not adopt anything. But, for the sake of the state continuity and of your fellow ministers, who were also MPs and were sitting on the tables of the opposition a few years ago, I would like you to put an image in your mind. He is the Adonis Georgiadis Minister for Health and has a special secretary who resigns and directly denounces him, him and his company, his counterparts, for overcompensation, for irregularities, for mismanagement and so on. Can you imagine, Minister, what would happen in and out of Parliament? Can you imagine what your colleagues, SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks would say in the context of the decent opposition if the same complaint were made? Such a decent opposition, decent, to the circumstances that we define for parliamentary function, has never been! And what we haven't heard of the last few years in here! From the lower square and the upper square of the populists, who have been nourished by them and found in power, those who have destroyed all of Europe and want to destroy our country and the whole world, to your fellow Members - in introductory or non-important terms - who have spoken of German germans, sellers, donors, creeds, and so on, to arrive this afternoon in radio political confrontation and speak the Vice-President of the European Parliament, Mr Papadimoulis, for development, quantitative relaxation and so on. Not only do you not believe that, not only do you not embrace these things, not only can you not support them, but you have fought them in the most political way. So I'm telling you, if you think you have a personal responsibility - I don't think so - take it from her. If you do not have personal responsibility, tell us who puts the signatures on how the refugee - immigration is managed financially. In any case, the Greek people must know why the Ministry of Public Order pays from the carte budgets on the part of the refugee - migrant? Why does the Ministry of National Defence pay out of its budgets part of the refugee - immigration? Why are actions still being paid out of the national budget when you resort to overtax? We are now talking about 'and down' at work the tax. We're talking about lying and mocking. You exaggerate and exaggerate the Greek people. No 90% tax is the third memorandum and 10% reform and development, but there are no reforms and development. Even so, and in what codes exist, which were settled after 2014, with 90% absorption, which in fact showed that as a country we have organisation, there is border guard, there is a legitimate function within our competences, you come after two years, you make a ball management authority between four and five ministries, complaints at local level go and come, absorptions do not exist, are below 25%. Immigration Commissioner himself, Mr Avramopoulos, told the Prime Minister directly. You're trying to keep a situation from the emergency funds. You know very well yourself that structure in your ministry does not exist. You and your partners are. Cooperation with the Greek police as it should not exist. It's the fourth or fifth time Moria's on fire over Chios, in Mytilini, not to say it again, like last time. Here, anyway - to conclude - at least in this particular matter, you have left no businessman with a large, medium, small, craftsman, processor, free professional, private employee, a civil servant. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President. I won't need any dentistry. I would like to say in passing that you are not protecting civil servants, you are not protecting pensioners. The greatest enemy of civil servants is Tsipras. I'll tell you why. Because his way and his policy ends up and ends up in the cutter anyway. Whether by depriving the private sector of the due amount - to which you are not paying them - either by using the cutter or by overtaxing or by taking other measures, it will be paid by ordinary suspects, civil servants, private employees and pensioners. People should know. End this candy with the civil servants! Again to them you'll resort to, you'll cut them off. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] But for this matter, with very simple Greek and very calmly, I expect an answer today from you. Tell us: Are the charges valid? If the charges apply, please very much do the right thing and go to the prosecutor. If the accusations do not apply, tell us that your Secretary-General, your choice of and Mr Tsipras's on this very sensitive and delicate subject, has his own agenda, he has a historical problem. Once again in the management of the refugee you make the wrong choices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr. Kikilia. Mr Mitterrand has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u42	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy has been talking about ideologies, major delays, lack of planning in migration management. He also talked about dangerous experimentation, which created an important cost for the Greek society, for the Greek economy, for our national issues and, at the same time, caused significant problems in living conditions in all centres for refugees and immigrants. In these points, which have been fully confirmed over the months, the complaints made by the former Secretary-General, Mr Budouris, have been added to your policy by adding the elements of non-transparency and mismanagement. The impressive thing is that the government has so far given no response to the very specific and very substantial denounced denounced by your own man, the executive of your own government, Mr Buddour. However, this development was not lightning in hunger, expected. Of course, we can say too much about hot spots. I want to be specific here. Let me refer to the hot spot in 'BIAL' in Chios. I will say, first of all, at the outset, that since October 2015, Minister, we have been waiting for this famous coordinator that you promised when you visited the city hall. Chios from the first moment was hospitable, she was cooperative. With her own money - and I'll talk about it - she bought this place to create the hot spot. The government promised that there would be forty-eight to seventy-two hours. Finally, it has become a permanent centre, a permanent'reservation centre', without, of course, having the necessary conditions. Minister, you took advantage of Chios' cooperation and abandoned it. But we must go to the specific we are discussing today. It has been heard in this Chamber that the public was wasted EUR 1.2 million on this project, to an extent that was granted free of charge by the municipality, to an extent that equipment and infrastructure were available free of charge from ELPE, under a social responsibility programme. The main labour, the human resources, were made by the Greek Army. We had gone back then and had seen with the Deputy Minister of National Defence, Mr. Vitsa, the works that were being carried out. When they were heard in the Chamber, you were, of course, inclined to discredit the information and talk about the impeccable and inconsistent nature of the procedure, saying, as usual, that there is an internal enemy trying to discredit the work of the government, but in practice no response was given. And even though EUR 1.2 million was spent, the conditions at 'BIAL' are at least unacceptable. I will submit in minutes the report on the autopsy of the Municipality of Chios, as published in the newspaper 'CULITIS'. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Panagiotis Mitarakis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It says that the former plant, for which you have spent 1.2 million euros, remains an area where neither the minimum safety and hygiene conditions are met. Sanitary issues you realise that they are also our humanitarian and humanitarian obligations and that they concern both refugees and the local population. But the security issues also concern everyone. You mention, for example, to avoid reading all the report, that during autopsy in the space there was a lack of firearms in almost the entire surface of the building, as well as emergency lighting costs, at a time when in other hot spots we have systematic arson issues. So you gave 1,2 million euros and there's no one fire extinguisher. And then you say everything was done perfectly? Here's the best part. It says the security technician that during the visit to the Chios Fire Service it was found that the housed area of the Host Center does not have a fire-fighting certificate and also a study report and the Fire-fighting finally owns a building in place before hot spot homes are placed before the space is formed and therefore does not respond to the current reality. You realise that, if instead of hotspots, it was a small and medium-sized enterprise with thirty employees, you would have shut it down in a minute. If the investor was foreign, you would pass through the microscope on the day the fire extinguishers were re-extinguished. But here, where serious risks arise because of your mistakes, it does not open no nostrils. This is a state. There's a serious issue about the money that's been spent and doesn't sweat anyone's ears. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will also take time from my dentistry. Mr President, it says the Ministry of Public Order and Civil Protection that everything was done perfectly in 'BIAL'. I am tabling what the Chios Police Officers' Association says in its open letter of 26 September. It says the police didn't hear about the design and layout of the center, and the "BIAL" eventually doesn't keep, it's only on paper. "Sourcer," that is. Anyone who wants to enter, whoever wants to come out, whoever he is, at risk, for the immigrants themselves from outside elements. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Panagiotis Mitarakis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'm going to go to my dear subject that we've discussed in this Chamber before. I have said that the Municipality of Chios paid for the "BIAL". You protested at the previous question and said that no, you paid for it. I asked you a question and a request for documents, and I asked you for the ministerial decisions with which you made these payments and did not provide them, they do not exist. You gave Chios money, you paid 450,000 euros for the general costs incurred by the Municipality of Chios of the tens of thousands of immigrants who spent the last eighteen months, but not for the purchase of "BIAL", money given pro rata, as was given to other islands. So, in the end, the citizens of Chios paid for this. If you wish, Minister, even now, I would like to inform you that the Court of Auditors has put a brake on the municipal council's decision to buy "BIAL" by lending. There's no money for the municipality to take it, a loan is needed to pay the "VIAAL". So here's a splendid field of glory. You're the ones from the Ministry who need the money to pay off the building's market and don't forge indifferently. Why would the Chios municipality pay for a structure that the government has chosen and is, in fact, illegal? Conditions do not fulfil the state's obligations towards the law. At the moment, the SYRIZA-ANEL coup d'état is making use of space given to it by the municipality to stay forty-eight hours. You do not apply it, you are breaking down the contracts you themselves signed and play games on the back of the people and you are now asking to fill the island with other structures. I'll close with you. If you want to do something good for Chios, the Municipal Company has asked, because of the extra population there, finance, to buy two desalination machines. They are necessary because the need for water is now very increased. Who's gonna pay for this? What about the Chios publicity? What about this city business? You can't afford to try and meet your own obligations. You must at last assume your responsibilities. Finally, you have a plan, which you will not load on the islands' backs. They've lifted more than ten times the weight from all over the country and raised it by your own mistakes. Finally stand on your feet while you are still government, and solve the problems that your own policy has created. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u43	Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, Member of the Dodecanese of the New Democracy, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, once again in this Chamber, in the Chamber of the Greek Parliament, we are discussing immigration, a major issue which concerns Greek society, the greatest, I would say, which will also be in the next period. However, the government cannot be proud of any aspect of its policy on immigration and its achievements. We would all be careful, ladies and gentlemen, that the Minister is missing, I understand, that I am no longer using the term'refugee', a term that you like, the government. Because, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the'refugee' as a term no longer exists. I imagine that you have understood all my fellow Members in all the wings of the Greek Parliament. It does not exist because it has retreated. The problem is immigration and it is a problem not irregular but illegal immigration. The vast majority of those who come now - Mr Kumucasos said so earlier - are not refugees. They are illegal immigrants from Pakistan, from the North African countries, from safe areas in Iraq and Afghanistan. Even those who declare Syrians are checked on their origin, since they do not have legal documents or the authenticity of the documents must be checked. Whether you like it or not the right term is 'immigration' now. If you want to see the truth, come and talk about immigration. Of course, your ideas do not let you see it and unfortunately these ideas have been baptized by all'refugees'. That is why you have been separating refugees and illegal immigrants for two or three years now. The government is irresponsibly dealing with a matter of high national security, which you can be sure we will find before us. Obviously a government that operates as a non-governmental organisation cannot understand the risks and relate them to the open questioning of the Treaty of Lausanne by Mr Erdogan, which is why with a lack of lightness and national irresponsibility you have turned the Aegean islands into human warehouses, even islands where there is a Muslim minority. Such irresponsibility? It is assumed that a huge contraction has been set up around the immigration issue. At the moment no one knows how much the state budget costs from managing the immigration has been paid by the Greek citizen. We have tabled a question with our fellow Members, Mr Vassilis Kikilias, Mr Kostas Karamanlis, Mr Kostas Katsafados since 6 September. We have raised the question of costs directly and clearly. We have asked for accurate information on the cost of managing migration in the state budget, the Greek taxpayer. We have requested detailed information on the amount of the total cost in the state budget from the construction of hot spots and the costs of feeding refugees and irregular immigrants, the companies to which the construction and accompanying works have been entrusted to each of the hot spots already completed and operating throughout Greece, the reason why the Government did not incorporate the costs of manufacturing hot spots and their operating costs and of feeding the National Fund for Immigration and Integration Asylum Fund, the Fund, and the Internal Security Fund, the EIF, the European Union for the period 2014-2020, thus charging the State budget. For the history of things, you will allow me to table this question in the Minutes, of which we are still waiting for the answer. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Clear answer we haven't got. And one truth I must take into account you, ladies and gentlemen, is that the finance and internal ministries have replied that they do not have competence. So who's got it? Is there a Ministry of Finance in this country? You yourself, Minister Muzala, had estimated the cost of immigration in one billion euro last February. Because you may have forgotten, I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] It is worth mentioning that the 3rd Directorate-General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with an information note on January 29, 2016, raises the cost. It says that the cost of receiving and managing flows has so far exceeded EUR 1.8 billion, direct and indirect costs and losses on the revenues foregone. I put this in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] It is therefore EUR 1.8 billion. Today how much is it, Minister? Do you have an answer? Do you have an answer for the citizens? Is Greece able to raise the cost that you, with your policy, have the SYRIZA - ANEL Government? Listen. Let me remind you that the cost of HPAI, the EUR 700 million approved by the European Commission for the next three years, is very little compared to the annual cost of EUR 1.8 billion which may be greater and possibly greater. You don't have a reply. You cannot synchronize with the government, or you are afraid to give accurate information to the public about the costs of managing immigration. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, if you are kind enough to use my dentistry. There is another cost, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the cost of the local economy on the islands and tourism. Are you questioning this cost? Ask the island businessmen, the civilians. Do you have the courage, gentlemen of the government, to mock the islanders and tell them that you will dismantle the islands soon, that you will transfer all these people to the mainland? Lies without end. And on January 1st, you're going to load another burden on the islands. You will abolish the reduced VAT rates in Lesvos, Kos, Chios, Leros and Samos. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that a million-dollar dance has been set up around immigration. The government sends the account of this million-dollar dance to be paid by us by Greek citizens. No one knows how much hot spots, accommodation and hospitality cost. No one knows what and how many contractors ran into these accompanying works. You, Mr. Muzala, obviously plead unauthorized. You're right. Besides, the government has made sure that this responsibility is spread to various ministries, yours, the Ministry of National Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because, you know, when the responsibility is spread, you seem to think that the traces of responsibilities will be lost in the course of time, i.e. the management of public money for immigration. Don't be so sure, though. Responsibilities will be sought. You must respond, Mr Muzala, to the serious accusations of Mr Buddour. Mr Buddour accuses you of exerting pressure in order to change the standards for the settlement housekeepers, so that it doubles the cost and extends to EUR 120 million. Mr Buddour asks you why you are pressing for a change in size standards that would cost an additional EUR 60 million for new houses, which doubles the cost and triples the delivery time, while there are ready houses of approved international standards. And he makes his complaints even heavier, saying that your personal office is involved and raises the cost of a camp four times as much as international organizations are costing. He also blames you, Minister, that you have assigned the management of all the technical works of your Ministry to your political office counselor as well as to your children's civil engineering friend, while there is an institutional Technical Support Department at the Ministry. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] All of this concerns you directly and personally, and you must give answers, Minister, unless Mr Buddour is just a slander and a liar. We need to see it. The issues of major moral importance, you know, are unnecessarily important to us. We have made it clear at the very first moment that there are no medium-term solutions, no escapades, and there can be no answers from the 'go down' type, as you have made in these complaints. Let me not mention the photographic competition for the feeding of illegal immigrants and refugees to forty-two hot spots. You provided that in order to choose a company to offer breakfast, lunch, dinner in individual portions, it should have a turnover of EUR 3.8 million per annum or about EUR 316,677 per month. I mean, what are you actually doing? The competition is photographic for big companies and you exclude local companies. The Isle Members are well aware of this, even the SYRIZA colleagues are aware of this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u45	Finish, Mr. Consola, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u46	I shall conclude, Mr President. Thank you for your understanding. I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen, the management of immigration does not simply have'skies'. It has become a party, a party for the electors of the government, but also for various non-governmental organisations that are organizing all over the country and you do not want to check. Parallel losses at this party are islands, it's tourism, above all, Minister, but it's our national security, and here you have to stand and see it very seriously. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u47	Thank you. Mr Charalambos Athanasios, Member of the Lesvos of the New Democracy, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we also referred to the previous debate on immigration, the situation on our islands and especially on the islands of the North Aegean, especially Lesvos and Chios. And the answer, Minister, was vague. Can you explain to us today what reasoning remains about 1/10 of migrant refugees in Lesvos, on an island of about eighty-five thousand inhabitants? In other words, it corresponds to a refugee immigrant per thirteen inhabitants. And I would like to ask which other area of our country is that. Do not forget that over the last two years, the citizens of Lesbos have taken care of over five hundred thousand people. At the moment they are living in Lesvos about seven thousand and the ratio is the one I mentioned. You are constantly referring to the fact that the EU-Turkey Agreement prohibits the transfer of asylum seekers from the islands of the northern Aegean. I would very much like you and my colleagues to take care of what I am about to say. Can you please tell me in particular what part of the agreement this refers to? Specifically. Or even better to present the House with the specific provision which it provides for in order to examine it. You realise that in the context of our sovereign state and the rules of international law, I believe that we have the possibility, as long as there is an emergency, such as the overcompensation of hospitality centres, to transfer refugees and immigrants to other guarded hospitality centres on mainland Greece, in order to dismantle our islands. On this, I would like to say this to you and I support this argument in the statement by the European Union - Turkey on 18 March 2016, which was agreed between the European Union and Turkey and referred to in paragraph 1, that 'the immigrants arriving on the Greek islands' - take note - 'will be properly registered and any asylum applications will be handled individually by the Greek authorities'. It does not say that they must be made by the Greek islands, and this also comes from the second paragraph, which speaks only of the Syrians, where it says that for every return to Turkey from the Greek islands, another Syrian will be established by Turkey in the European Union. An undertaking that strengthens this position is also the subsequent law, Law No.4375/2016, which your Government voted on April 3, 2016, i.e. after the pact on 18 March, where it clearly refers to - in paragraph 2 of Article 14 - the possibility given to the commander of the Host Centre in the Identifications. So what's he telling us? What is the possibility of the commander of the Host and Identifying Centre? I would like to read to you: 'On the border of the country because of urgent needs, because of an increase in arrivals or for the proper completion of these processes, and in particular in the case of persons belonging to vulnerable groups' - this is an indication for the 'prosperity' - the rule is that - 'due to the urgent needs due to the increase in arrivals or to the appropriate completion of such processes, and in particular in the case of persons belonging to vulnerable groups', it can, by its decision, refer the citizen of a third country to reception and identification centres in the inland'. So you see that the law of the state of emergency, which is international rules, is also provided for by the law of the European Union, provides for this and that this possibility exists. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I too will use my dentistry. Ladies and gentlemen, about two weeks ago, a wide-ranging meeting took place at the Maximos Mansion, under Mr Flamouraris, in the presence of representatives and institutions from our island, Lesvos, in order to take immediate measures to decongested the island. At this meeting, they agreed, among other things: the dismantling of Lesvos, the speeding up of the procedures of the asylum committees, so that, after the identification of potential refugees and economic migrants, the continuous and intensive monitoring of refugee and migration flows by Turkey, effective control by NGOs, which should always be authorised to operate and control the financial consequences of their operation, is under the control of the relevant Minister, but in consultation and with the municipality and the region - at the same time and on an equal footing, we would say, that there is a commitment - and, of course, measures to alleviate islands, such as reduced value added tax, as Mr Consolas said. Can we today know exactly what you have achieved or planned within this period, Minister? I understand that time has been very short since then. It's only been a week. But you must also realise that the situation on the islands of the northern Aegean has already reached the unprecedented. We need to take immediate action now. There's no more time. Our fellow citizens have already begun to rise up and complain about the chaos that prevails on the islands and especially in the hospitality centres, which have, incidentally, been hosting twice and three times as many immigrants as there are. You know them very well, because you have visited Lesvos recently. Do you have a plan for this? I think that not only is there not just a plan, but instead of being in Maximos - take note of this - a travel agent named Xylouris was looking to find available hotels in Lesvos on behalf of non-governmental organisations, for hosting migrants and even in enticing terms. I am tabling the relevant document on the Minutes for knowledge and the Minister and his fellow Members. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Charalambos Athanasios, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I wonder whether the complaints of the Buddour, referred to by Mr Kumoutsakos and Mr Consolas, have anything to do with this? I do not want to say whether they have anything to do with you personally, it is something that does not concern us, but it certainly does have anything to do with government policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u49	I didn't hear you. Can you repeat?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u50	I would say that this whole procedure and the document that I tabled for Agent Xylouris relate to the shadows mentioned by Mr Buddouris, the Secretary-General, on the government's policy. And I do not want to make it personal, that is, that it concerns you - it is something to be investigated - but it certainly concerns government policy on this issue of the functioning of non-governmental organisations. And I would like to ask you, Minister, this: you knew this initiative of Xylouris and the actions they have taken, which are - be careful - two days before the meeting at the Maximos Mansion. He states that he was aware of you and that he would soon have the permission to make this spread throughout Lesvos, refugees and immigrants. If so, if it were in your knowledge, then the meeting of Maximus was a mockery and underestimates us all and you as organisers and us as participants. If it wasn't in your knowledge, then the NGOs what are they? Do they act as a state in ignorance of the sovereign Greek state? Or is everything done with the tolerance of the government? However, Mr Xylyrgyris himself claims - as I am told by Mytilini - that he had the government's permission and encouragement for these actions. Mr President, we want an answer not so personally, as the Lesbian people are on this issue, because the situation is devastating. Finishing my prototype, could you tell me what measures you intend to take for the economic elevation of our islands and especially of Lesvos? We have not heard anything about this, of course only words. From political actions, do you have anything to mention from implementation? Because it is now widely understood that, in matters that you consider crucial for your policy, for example television licences, the amendments are tabled overnight, while for the problems of our islands, you have done nothing to relieve people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u51	If you wish, complete your thoughts, Mr. Athanasios, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u52	At the same time, citizens' safety is at risk. As long as I can tell you, following on from the repeated incidents created every day, especially in the centre of the city, but also in Kara Tepe and in Moria, the situation is so steep that there is great concern - and you know them very well - from these situations. Yesterday Immigrants set fire in a large dale with feed behind the castle of Mytilini. There have of course been tenders and are being examined by the investigating authorities. Right now that we're talking, there's a big riot and it's going on in Moria with great catastrophe and damage. I am making ten photos of them recently, which were taken a little while ago. [[At this point the Member, Mr Charalambos Athanasios, presents for the Minutes the above photographs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Minister, do you know that tourist arrivals in Lesvos have been reduced this year to around 70%, that the economy of the island has been destroyed and that you have abolished all concepts of islandity? All this is impossible not to know. Your Members, who come from our islands, who do nothing but call them right-wing and xenophobic ordinary citizens who protest peacefully and without violence, are also aware of them, people who have changed their daily lives rapidly, fearing of daily events and that their lives are destroyed together with their economy. However, the problem remains.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u53	Mr Athanasios, you have exceeded time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u54	I shall conclude, Mr President, in seconds. I will make a point: In 2014, when the war in Syria was raging, some seventy-seven and seventy-seven thousand immigrants entered our country. In 2015, eight hundred and twenty-five thousand entered Greece, five hundred five thousand in Lesvos. We took care of them and proved that the Lesbians are neither racist nor xenophobic. In 2016, we do, as you have said, have reduced flows from Turkey, as you have said, with the satisfaction of other colleagues. That's true. But what's due? It is certainly not because of the coordinated actions of the Greek Government, but because Turkey is trying to introduce a free visa regime and that is why it is pressing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr. Athanasios. I would like to make a statement to this House: First, the Ministers of National Defence, Economic, External and Economic Affairs, Development and Tourism submitted today, on 24-10-2016, a draft law: ‘Preparation of Amendment No 2 to the Agreement on Administrative Nature between the Ministry of Defence of the French Republic and the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic on Cooperation in the context of a Technology Demonstration System for Unmanned Fighting Aircraft (Vehicule Aerien de Combat Sans Pilote, UCAV)’. Secondly, the Ministers of National Defence, Economic and Foreign Affairs submitted today, on 24-10-2016, a draft law: ‘Repeal of the Technical Agreement between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Chief of Staff of the Republic of Turkey (acting on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Turkey) on the one hand, and the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Minister of Defence of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain, on the other hand, on the staffing, financing, administration and support of the EUROCORPS General - European Military College - NATO EUROCORPS - NDC.’
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u56	The staffing, Mr President, not manoeuvring.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u57	I read what he says. You're right. At some point we have to replace the word'management' with the word'management', because it is obviously about women as well. Third, the Ministers of National Defence, Finance, Foreign Affairs, Shipping and Defence Policy and Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on 24-10-2016, tabled a draft law today: ‘Signature of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria on cooperation within the Athens Multinational Coordinating Centre for Strategic Maritime Transport (POSECTHAM - AMSCC) and the Technical Arrangement between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria on the implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of National Defence and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria on cooperation within the Multinational Coordinating Centre for Maritime Transport of Athens (POSC)’. They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Parliamentary Evros of the New Republic, Mr Anastasios Pschakis, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Minister, the government is deaf in the complaints that have seen the light of publicity about opaque procedures regarding the projects that have been made available and related to refugee and immigration. The policy you pursued in immigration - refugee - was criminal. You have created a Ministry of Migration Policy, without there being any need to see the problems. Because of your ideas, artificially confuse the refugee problem with illegal immigration. All foreigners have baptized refugees and Syrians, and in the past you have told them Palestinians. You have followed the open borders policy. You invited them to come to our country wearing the solidarity cloak. Illegal migrant groups hiding behind their refugee status make themselves seafarers, and you did and make lifeguards. You think you're fooling. No, Minister, you're not fooling anyone. Others laugh at us because we must guard our borders in accordance with Article 12 of the Schengen Borders Code and we do not care. For all you're interested in is making hot spots on remote islands, destroying the finances. You have allowed local communities to raise the burden of immigration - refugee issues on their own. The results are that there are tensions in these areas, such as this one in Lesvos. And it is not only the islands that accept this peaceful attack, but also Evros, with armies of economic migrants and refugees being trapped. You've let NGOs set up parties and you're just observers. All of this adds to the shadows Mr Buddour leaves for financial scandals regarding awards without contests. You seem to be sensitive only to the economic migrants and the refugees, but not to the money of the Greek people, who are spreading without any misgivings, a people who have been kneeled by the memorial policy that you are following and who is even more kneeling at the uncontrolled accumulation of refugees and economic migrants. But, Minister, it is time for you to reply. In particular, you ask: Have you sent Buddour's case to the prosecutor as a competent minister? What are your operational plans for border guarding? Did you take advantage of the assistance of the Member States of the European Union? What is your position on the European coastguard? What action did you take on this matter? You had decided to create a safe road through the special foreign, refugee and economic migrants, in Evros to the height of Andrianoupolis and Kastania. Have you ever been to Evros? Do you know that? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr. Prussakis. Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides, Member of the Council of the New Democracy, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Fellow Members - as there is no colleague - the country is at a dead end from the policy of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks and on the issue of immigration - refugee. The unwise policy of SYRIZA, which had electionally declared the country of open borders, that famous sign "come and wait", unfortunately we have seen how it works. Since April 2015, Minister, we have drawn your attention to the issue of the particular pressure on immigration - refugee flows. All the pressure from North Africa to Italy has been transferred. We have seen from Morocco, Tunisia, sub-Saharan regions, from the depths of Asia, the pressure on our country. And we have reached that large number of refugees of one million. And of course, what did you do? You came to the topical question, which we had tabled in April, in order to help you, and we came to discuss it in October. In October, Minister! Remember. And of course you discovered - or rather the President-in-Office discovered - in August that there are sea borders and you had to come to the summit, sign up for the seventeen points, which we were obliged as a country at the beginning of November to implement all those points or in any case a large number of them. None of this has happened. You have tried to combine the refugee - immigration - with the evaluation, and you have allowed the time to go unrealised, Mr Minister, so that the big issue is raised as far as what you committed, with fifty thousand refugees, immigrants - as you want to call them - in Greece, in the sense of hospitality centres, rental programs, etc., on the basis of subsidies. None of this, unfortunately, has happened. And you started another way and referred yourself in February of '16 to the fact that the issue of public debt is about - or at least, you say - 600 million or 0.3% of GDP. That is what you referred to, and that is what you said in February of '16. In other words, what you are saying today is also called the Greek Statistical Authority: the country's primary surplus will be 0.63%. In other words, half of the primary surplus has been devoted to it through public expenditure, so that - if you like - the Greek taxpayer can pay all this, that is, the non-absorbing of the funds of the European Union, which, of course, reaches 509 million. According to the Communication from the European Commission, Greece submitted a zero clearance in February 1916 in its annual report. No expense, no payment. Of course, your former secretary, whom you fired, says that you arrived at the absorption point of 28%, and of course he also refers to a parallel system that you developed, or the one you mentioned to us in October 1915, for the parallel programme. I shall refer to my denture not in the parallel programme, but in the parallel'square'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr. Cryazides. The Deputy Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction now has the floor on immigration policy issues, Mr Ioannis Mousalas, for 20 minutes and then we have the order of Parliamentary Representatives. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are not here today - so we have now found another opportunity to say the same thing again every time. You will not be convinced, because you are seeking in your general fight against the SYRIZA and ANEL government to show that something is happening in the refugee situation. I wrote it down before I heard you. I heard you all. I'll listen to you in your dentistry. We have said the same thing in the previous question, we have said the same thing in the previous question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u63	If we don't do anything, Minister, will we leave it like this? And we have more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u64	Mr. Cryazides, I have not interrupted you. I'm trying to respect you. If you try too, we can move on to the debate. Unforgettable border: Again manoeuvres this fairy tale. Reassurance from NATO, assurance from FRONTEX, assurance from the European Union that we are guarding our maritime borders in the best way. You don't like it. But there's this thing. There is! It's written. It's paperwork. ‘Health bomb’. And that was said. It'll be re-examined in dentistry. There isn't. It didn't happen, it didn't sit, not by accident. We have submitted to you, we will again tell you that in the centres we have, every ten days there is a full-stage health check. It's not what you're claiming. 'No plan'. For God's sake! Lack of plan? A million people have passed without a nose opening, without a problem. In your years you have started reconquering from the squares, from the streets. Refugees, immigrants on SYRIZA - ANEL are in structures not always good, eat, have health care. This is not only good for refugees and immigrants. It's good for our place, because the other solution would be to be in the squares, it would be to be outside the houses, it would be an increase in crime. There isn't. Did you forget the gangs, newspaper headlines for foreign gangs here, for foreign gangs there? Where did you have the foreigners? Where did you have them? I told you in the previous question. Millions have passed. Where is he? Did you throw them out in Europe in a way? Tell Europe that you have increased secondary flows. Say it! Go on out and say in Europe: 'Our government, our borders were unguarded'. Get out and say it. I don't claim that. Where's the four million that went through? You were booked five thousand.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u65	Nobody said four million.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u66	Four million. I've got the evidence, I've submitted it to you. You've come here undetected. Can I talk to you now? Are these serious things? Submit to the Minutes and see you from Facebook and television. What do you testify for? Take it back from me. Publication of the "CORDER Subject" is the document you deposited. The other is from the column "Policy" by another newspaper. That's what you testify to. Is this your scientific study of the refugee? I'll give it back to you again. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr Ioannis Mousalas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned publications, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] ‘Financial burden, tourism’. You're right. It could be different. Could all these people go through the islands, stay all these people, and there's no burden? Anyone who deals scientifically with the refugee - immigration is doing damage management and trying to make the least possible damage, and then this thing can take another path. We've done a good management of damage lamely wrong. Forgive me, I do not speak professionally for others, so I use the words in fact. Yes, whoever thinks that it has the boogey to deal with the biggest migratory phenomenon since the Second World War and then in Europe and say: 'We have done so excellently and no one is like us' is a liar. Sloppy-wrong, 'cause we found something. We've found a thousand forty-nine hosting places and we've built fifty thousand and you're telling us they're denouncing us? Three times you have been condemned by the European Council. You have been convicted tens of times by humanitarian organisations and all of this. For God's sake, be careful about what we say and what we call it. I don't like this thing. I don't like to stand up to you, but it can't be. They can't, they're lying. 'No plan for the islands'. Of course there is a plan for the islands. Mr. Athanasios, your resignation does not agree to make closed centers on the islands. You don't agree, that's unprecedented. In your program you put closed centers. We're asking to build closed centers to limit some phenomena and tension and deny them and create movements.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u67	We want a balanced division in mainland Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u68	You cannot want an equal distribution unless you go out and say: 'We do not want the European Union-Turkey agreement'. I challenged you last time. Say it! There is no point in saying: 'We have changed, you have told Chios for forty-eight hours'. When we told Chios for forty-eight hours, that was true. The circumstances have changed. Immigration is dynamic. Do you want Chios to take them in forty-eight hours? The Agreement is hereby repealed. Say it: 'We don't care, take them and let the agreement be abolished'. Do you know what the deal's gonna say? I showed you this last time. He'll say four to seven thousand every day! That's what she's gonna say. Are we gonna fight it together? Are we gonna try together? I don't see a mood like that. Honestly, I'm telling you, it's from the rare times, I don't see a mood like that. I'm tired. All the same and the same. And can I tell you something? It's your party's positions. They are positions of the People's Party. And there are positions, some of them, within your schedule. But there. Now, what was added to this permanent? The story added with Mr. Buddour. I don't know how SYRIZA would react and I'm not in this position, nor do I have a reason to tell you that. It's possible Mr. Kikilis is right. But that's none of my business. I'm dealing with immigration - refugee. Mr Buddour's resignation has been requested. He gave it to her.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u69	Monsters and signs he denounces!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u70	I will finish, Mr. Cryazides. I've been denounced a newspaper that at a gay pride party I was dressed as a bride. Would you have me tell you if I was dressed up as a bride? But I'll tell you about this. I'll tell you. He was asked to resign, to give it up, to be accepted. For me, the matter is over. We're moving on to the problem. Now let's go see the specific complaints. However, I would like to say again that you have to adopt them from now on. It is not customary for a Minister or a Member to prove his innocence because someone said something. So let's go very specifically. As far as SOFTEX is concerned, this is the famous camp, where there was an estimate of 1.5 million and finally, based on planning, etc., there was a debate with non-governmental organisations - the cost would be about 6 million. It's construction. I will then submit to you, so be careful, the answers and how this construction took place, namely how the UNHCR was consulted, without any evidence being provided, how UNHCR gives its opinion without any information being requested and how after the UNHCR has been made public about the refugee camps and says that "you did not tell us exactly what you want, you did not tell us who it is, what facilities it has, how many people it has, in what homes it will have, what houses it will do". They'll testify here. This is about the first construction. The second construction concerns the dimensions with the houses. I want you to understand this, because regardless of the fact that today we will probably have a tension, the parties in democratic opposition must cooperate. There is, ladies and gentlemen, a risk. NGOs and institutional organisations, which have taken money and which are trying to leave them in our country, have a model, the model of Africa. That's not what I'm saying. I, too, went to Africa and to Afghanistan and worked all my years. I've been all over the world. This is the first time that these organisations have been involved in the implementation of their action in Europe. We claim self-evident. We call on the camps, which we will build and stay in our place, not to be like those in Africa, not to be tents - sacks, not to be caravans or houses that don't normally fit five families. We gave the NGO and the institutional organisations three - four different types of house, with only one condition, up or equal to thirty square meters - is the space for each one in these houses - to have kitchenettes and to have a bathroom. We discussed these with ECHO. I will present to you in my dentistry and in the debate with ECHO, the European Union, which accepted them. And I will testify to you in my dentistry and the UNHCR decision, which considers that our decision to create such larger houses is correct and undertakes to extrapolate to the houses that he has already ordered. I don't understand. They're constructions. You must be careful. Now look, let me tell you the last one. I'm not willing to apologize for such things. But I'm willing to explain. And you really know that I respect parliamentary institutions and I am at your disposal. I did not sign on to Mr Buddour. It wasn't necessary. Mr. Buddouris has jurisdiction under the law. In our view, they were not properly exercised. But obviously it's not my fault I didn't sign anything else. Did he want increased responsibilities? We can at some point respond to these too. But I don't intend to go on with this. Believe me, we have a very serious problem and we have to solve it. There are no skies, gentlemen. None of you testified to any of you. There are no assignments. One of you didn't testify for an assignment. A reference was made by Mr Mitarakis to 'BIAL'. He's right. We'll send him the paperwork. And I think there was a reference about the feeding by another Member of yours. There's not a single direct assignment. Why do you play this all the time? Who are you going to convince with this thing? It's too much of what you said. I do not know, Mr President, what time I have.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u71	You have eight minutes left for your protology, you have ten for your dentology and five minutes for your tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u72	I have time. So I think that ideas should be sought elsewhere. Same again. And, indeed, it doesn't make any sense. He wants a scientific debate. He wants suggestions. I said that for the unguarded borders. It's not true. NATO has said so, FRONTEX has said so, the Commission has said so in separate states. It's not true. As far as the separation of refugees and immigrants is concerned, we are doing so. I am the one who always separates refugees from immigrants in Parliament, and I give each one his social role and status. Do you think you could've made booking places for forty thousand? Why didn't you fix them? There was a year when you had seventy thousand! It's not possible when our jurisprudence system has fifteen thousand positions. Also, on the basis of the New Democracy programme, we no longer have illegal immigrants or refugees. We have 90% asylum seekers. In your programme, gentlemen of the New Democracy, you say that asylum seekers must remain in open centres. We also want some of the asylum seekers in closed centres to facilitate the process. I have it here with me your schedule. I can read it to you if you like.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u73	We're accepting it. That's what we're talking But we're saying they're leaving fast.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u74	Mr. Athanasios, neither have you found a way out of here, nor have I found it. We are currently giving the European Union a huge battle. Let me let you know. I was two days in the European Union. I had discussions with the European Parliamentary Groups of all the parties and with the Group of the Party of European Socialists. We are promoting a project - which is just as necessary with relocation - in order to build a European return mechanism. Without refunds there can be no immigration policy. We cannot, however, do as you have been unable to do. You have been able to return to Georgia, Albania and Bulgaria. I've got the lists. You haven't done anything in Syria. You've done fifty eight or fifty nine in Pakistan. No one in Afghanistan. At the moment the composition has changed. We are telling the European Union - and we continue with a marathon - that we want a European return mechanism. Help your party. The People's Party had a positive response to this as well as to other parties. Mr. Schultz, with whom I had contact, too. But that is not how we can say things that are not haunted at anything. Mr. Athanasios, I respect you. Is it possible now to talk about - I don't know what's his name - Mr. Xylouris and I can answer Mr. Xylouris and if I know Mr. Xylouris? Is that possible? Is that a level?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u75	Not you. I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u76	You told me when we had a meeting. Will the government be able to answer for Mr. Xylouris - and you moved it as paper, that we need to apologize - that Xylouris either is Xylouris, or whether he is a relative of the singer or is not a relative of the singer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u77	I don't know if he's related to the singer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u78	Is this conversation possible now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u79	Minister, this is a very serious matter, because it is not possible at the moment when we are talking inside the Prime Minister's office to do this!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u80	Of course he can. And you know that some of the NGOs are making independent moves and we are limiting them. I mentioned to you in the previous question that we had already made and put into operation for the first time on Greek territory the register of non-governmental organisations and institutions. Next week, we'll call people and parties to show it and show it how it works. That is a matter. We did not want it, it was imposed by the European Union. I told you in the previous discussions. In the European Union, gentlemen, the governments, the majority, are in your party, they are not in us. I'm not saying that you in your party didn't fight to get things done, but are you accusing us that we couldn't afford the money they gave NGO to get it for our country? Is this thing possible? Can I tell you something? We are going to a 'Dublin' now, which is very difficult 'Dublin'. We need to unite our forces to avoid things hard for our country. The last 'Dublin' went through. Can I go out now and tell you that I know you were opposed to the last Dublin and did not manage to convince the European Union? What am I supposed to go out and tell you now that all these years ago this happened and I'm gonna move the finger in the play? I don't have Facebook, so...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u81	And Europeans see their interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u82	Please, Mr. Athanasios. Can I go out and tell you you didn't manage five years ago to change Dublin? This thing doesn't make any sense. Come on, we can work together, without lying, without using lines for who has a better reason, who has a worse reason and all these things and, above all, trying to do a scientific job. I'm not gonna talk to you again, I'm telling you this thing. If a question arises again, which says that "the newspaper said that, he said that, what do you say?" ask him from now on. And I will tell you another example - somewhere you mentioned it - 'Why both Norway and Greece?' I could tell you too that this thing isn't the case, it's in Greece below, and you guys find it after that. You have no scientific study on these things. With a terrible longing you grab things, bruises and horns from here and there, you drop them here today, you drop them last week, you'll get them back next week to stop SYRIZA from being government. This is not how SYRIZA will cease to be government. I'll finish this. Does it not show good knowledge of the reality to ask and write "Where did you find that you have helped your refugees and humanism to refugees?" Don't do it, there'll be answers. And the answers are not good and we don't have to have these answers, we need to look forward. We have fifty thousand places, where people sleep, take a bath, have toilet, have medical care and eat a meal - not always good - three times a day. Asylum services are working better than before, not on the basis of needs, but better than before and we are constantly trying to increase them. Now what do you want me to say? In my second speech, I can have the list for every year, tell me where you put them. I at the Marathon knew where you put them in the stables and they worked, in the pumping stations, and they worked, in the traffic lights, collecting diarrhea and washing windshields. Please. Please. We've got a situation like this right now. We are moving on to a new plan, according to which plan within the next quarter will have a new decent camp. The decent camps are also security for our country. It is not only a right of refugees and immigrants. They create better relations. They help in the possible integration of any of them. So instead of each time starting the same thing and the same thing, put your back on helping the country become relocation, make it relocation. Help the country build the European committee mechanism and help the country support the European Union-Turkey agreement. You say in your question: And who recognizes, you are denounced by NGOs and NGO. We're being denounced, that's true. Do you want me to bring you how many people have denounced PASOK, how many have denounced the period you've been ruling together? May I show you decisions of the Council of Europe? But can I tell you something? Who appreciates the work we've done? It is appreciated by the Greek people and you know that and you are trying to undermine it. It's not helping. Can I tell you who else? They refer to Greece splendidly. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees. The Secretary-General of the United Nations. President Obama. Merkel. Olad. The Commission. Timerman. Mr. Avramopoulos. Mr. Stylianides. The DG-ECHO. And he goes by saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u83	Excuse me, Minister. Accreditations you're making, solutions you didn't give.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u84	The solutions we have given are solutions that go ahead. If you can imagine that here there's a tachychist who's pulling out of his hat magical solutions, I'm not and nobody can be honest here and suggest things like that. I say very specifically: so far we have dealt with it satisfactorily. We have done our best in Europe if you think that we have been in this situation for the first time. The asylum in Germany has been operating since 1950. The reception in Sweden has been in operation since 1952. We had a thousand hundred and ninety-four positions. Good. I can sit here and curse you two days that you've made only a thousand hundred and ninety-four places. And what about it? What do we get as a country from this thing? Minor. What can I tell you? I have a thousand five hundred minors. I won't be able to take care of them in six months. It's the least I need.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u85	Any minor or unaccompanied?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u86	Unaccompanied, excuse me, I was wrong. But I don't have anyone in the police department anymore, just in the process of switching it. But the problem with minors, for which we are not proud, is that they also have to leave through camps, by mixing them with other refugees and immigrants. Much more, as we did not try to hide, at this stage new entrants are now immigrants and not refugees. And that changes a quality in relationships. So, yes, we're not gonna lie to you, we're not gonna lie to the Greek people. But I think I'm tired of you. If I have to, I'll come back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Minister. We shall proceed to the deliberations of the parliamentary representatives. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Adonis Georgiadis, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u88	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I want to be honest. I was surprised by what you told us. You almost gave up on us, because you were criticised, while things go as well as possible. And you distorted all the positions of the New Democracy, and you represent a government for which you yourself admitted - and that is what he honors you - that the criticism that SYRIZA made about Amydaleza when it was opposition was wrong. And when you represent a government, which in the first half of 2015, on the state of your predecessor, Mrs Christodoulopoulos, did everything possible to get to Greece, as many refugees and illegal immigrants as possible, you come here and make suggestions to the New Democracy? You told us to help New Democracy create the European Return System. Minister, do you not know that the New Democracy at the Conference of Marseilles the European People's Party in 2011 called for and succeeded in voting for the European People's Party to create the European Return Mechanism? The New Democracy, which at the very first moment showed you an extremely favourable mood, to give you time to face a problem, which the SYRIZA Government has actually caused to a very large extent, is now accused of having given you the effort, the national one, to resolve the issue? But here, we're not here to exchange nice conversations. Here we are to solve people's problems. Yesterday, Minister, I was in Chios with my colleague Mr Mitarakis, and I met both the Vice-President and the mayor and many of the factors on the island. Do you know what they told me at all times regardless of party origin? That they had drops in charter flights this year on Chios Island minus 70%, Minister, and for 2016 they have zero precautions, not one. Charter flights completely stop in Chios. Same clues and worse in Lesvos. Samos's the same thing, and it's the worst thing in Samos. As long as you, Minister, are haggling about the very nice words that the international organizations tell you, some of our fellow citizens are losing their jobs. What do you want us to say? Well done, how nice of you to do it? And you are completely distorting the positions of the New Democracy. You say that the New Democracy is contrary to closed-ended pre-regulatory centres. First of all, this language automation has been a little deformed. When we talk about closed-ended pre-intervention centres, to get to know SYRIZA colleagues, what did the Minister say? That he and the 'bad' New Democracy do not accept it for the islands? When we talk about closed types of pre-intervention centers, we're talking about Almonds. This was the Amygdaleza, a closed type of pre-regulatory center. Does the Minister of SYRIZA now come and tells the New Democracy, a disgrace to the New Democracy, who does not support closed-ended pre-regulatory centres, namely Amygdaleza, which SYRIZA said as a opposition is Europe's shame and will close it down? But now, Minister, is that the level you've done now? The New Democracy was never opposed to the Almonds. The New Democracy as a government made Amygdaleza, and the New Democracy is glad that now SYRIZA wants to do too many Amygdales and wish and do them, because they need them for those who are illegal in the country. But what does the New Democracy say? Is the area of the islands the right place to do this, Minister? That's what the New Democracy says. Let me tell you a little bit about it, why did you speak twenty-five minutes and a number didn't you say, but at the end of the day, for unaccompanied children? Chios has four and a half thousand refugees or illegal immigrants in a population of forty thousand, that is 11% of its population today are such people. Do you consider it reasonable in Athens to say, in proportion to five hundred fifty thousand? That's the analogy. Or is it none of your concern that Lesbos has eight thousand in a population of seventy thousand? Not to worry about the people of Chios? Don't worry about Lesvos residents? Don't worry about Samos people? And you didn't come to say the most important thing about which you're leaving before I go to the charges of Buddour. You said, Minister, with a very great comfort that we are accuseing you - it says - of asylum committees, of how they function and what Mr Metarakis said about hot spots. Excuse me, do you personally as Minister of Mousalas when you said you would make the hot spot on the various islands, where the New Democracy said yes to your law, in your decision, were the hot spots not to be a short-day stay of these people? Yes or no? You didn't go to the islands, and our MPs went and said they'd be hot spots and in two, three, four days will they leave? Isn't that what you told Kos to calm them down? Isn't that what you told Lero? That's what you said in the other islands, isn't it? So the New Democracy comes and tells you that, Minister, you told them it would be for a few days and sit for weeks and months. Do you have any answers for that? And you're saying it's New Democracy's fault? Or don't you want us to give up on you for that? Mr Minister, we therefore want a concrete answer. Are those on the islands hot spots or are they centers? So that local communities and local authorities know, and those who live there, because we're talking about it. Or unless you deceived them of the islanders and told them it would be hot spot but you were at the very beginning aim of making centers. One more, the other one. Thirdly, you brought in a law here and said that in a month and a half the primary and secondary committee will have judged who are refugees and who are immigrants. It's our law. Yes, sir. Shouldn't you give us a clue today? How many committees were there? How many people made a request? You said he made a 90% request. Yes, sir. Can you tell us, from this 90% requesting, what is their number, how many of them were judged - from primary and secondary - to refugees and asylum seekers and how many of them were judged to be illegal immigrants? That's what a serious minister does. He doesn't blame the opposition. He files the official evidence in Parliament and says we've worked so hard, that's what our law says, that's what we've achieved, take it. Instead of doing all of this, you started an attack on New Democracy. And why did you attack New Democracy? Because we invoked you for Mr Buddour's complaints. This is where we have to stand to make a few things clear, Mr Minister, because you have been taking me personally. I take what you said in your speech to word. 'Can the Minister respond to the complaints of everyone?'. I reply directly to you: No, no Minister can sit down and answer each other's complaints. We agree. The right question, however, is not here. The right question is. Does the Minister have to reply to his complaints by yesterday's Secretary-General? Because your general secretary is not everyone until yesterday. He's a man your government chose, you had him a partner, he was in your office. So he's not everyone. Let me accept - because I was surprised - that Mr Buddour is a slander. I would remind you of the Greek people who are listening to me what Mr Buddour said, to whom you have not answered today in passing. He told you, and he sent it to the Prime Minister. He said that in Norway, every immigrant costs 12 000 euros - this is the per capita cost of his management - and in Greece it costs 15 000 euros. If we sum up the sums, having sixty thousand people in Greece, there is an annual difference of EUR 180 000. In other words, your general secretary, not everyone, your right hand until yesterday, the man you had chosen as government to have there, blames you - does not say that you stole them - that you do not know what is happening, that you have lost control and that you are losing EUR 180 000. The Opposition doesn't ask you? Don't tell me it's Mr. Buddour's slander. Because at the SYRIZA conference I saw Mr. Budouris fine. First - first - he was in the chairs and he was watching the conference. I'm surprised. If what Mr Buddhour said is true, then you must answer what has happened with this EUR 180 000. If what Mr Buddour said is false and slandering, what was he doing at your conference in the first rows? Do you have slanders in your conference, who say you have lost 180,000,000 euros? Or is it New Democracy again because he's asking you? You have also passed on the question of arresting this poacher, saying that he wrote it the "First Theme". One minute because I must say that we cannot reach agreement, Minister. I want a concrete answer to that and I will personally not accept any evasion. Whether or not he wrote the "CORDER THEME", "AUGY", "KATHMERINA" or anyone else, is an issue to discuss with each other. Whether or not we care. We ask, then, explicitly. A major Kurdish or Turkish origin has been arrested - I may be mistaken as to his origin - in Corinth...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u89	Kurdish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u90	Courage, very nice. I'm glad you know. Arrested in a circle of smuggling illegal immigrants. He was a man who got paid with his head to pass them. He claimed, according to the police, in his statement that he was your partner, not your partner, but a coordinator in the center of Scaramaga. In this sense, therefore, it is chosen - in a sense - by the Ministry of Migration Policy. Is that true or false? That's what we're asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u91	I'll tell you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u92	What does it matter? I want to know. I have submitted to you a personal and relevant question from reports from the Corinthian press before the "CORDER THEME", since you do not want to reply to the "COURT OF AUTHORITY". It is a major issue for the Ministry of Migration Policy to have chosen for coordinator in Scaramaga, one of the largest centres, a person who is a member of a poaching ring. I am not even going to the debate on what international organisations say. First of all, because you know very well that the High Commissioner has made an announcement against you. I made a simple google search and two, three out, and that you don't let reporters get into the hot spots has made an announcement for the operation in Idomeni has made a announcement. If we start now counting each other's announcements, which each international organization has made for each other, we are not making any sense. I prefer to bring you here the concerns of the islanders I visit and weep their fate on the islands. I'm sure our Samos colleague knows that too. He knows very well from Samos - and let him be from SYRIZA - that Samos has fallen into tourism this year. What are you gonna tell them? You're going to the hotel in Samos and you're going to say to him: "But look at what beautiful words Obama says to me." With Obama's fine words, will he feed his children the other day? Get a little serious when you're talking to the House. Now let's go and pack it up. Minister, why does the complaints of Buddour matter to the New Democracy? I'll explain it. There was Greece, this general discussion that the Left supposedly had some kind of moral advantage. You were the good people and we were the right ones, the right ones, the center were the bad ones. I'm right. Don't get me wrong. I say the word 'we' in general. Here's what's going on. Mr. Buddour comes out and says that about 180 million. Yes, sir. Does Mr Artemio come out, the lawyer of offshore and the Panama Papers from Cyprus, catch him coming out of the Maximos Mansion and what does he announce? What he had, he says, at the Maximus Mansion to discuss a big investment. In fact, Mrs. Gerovasili doesn't answer us for what investment did Mr. Artemio go there? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just give me a minute, Mr President. Because in order to go for an investment in the Maximos Mansion and not the Minister responsible, it is a big investment. We are not told by Mr Artemios, by the lawyer of the Panama Papers and the offshores of Cyprus, why did he go to the Maximos Mansion and what investment was it? Because Mrs Gerovasili has made good announcements against the New Democracy and the President, but for the substance of Artemio she said nothing. Looks like the case's been going on all the time. Today is not going to pass, and I am going to read the letter to Mr Tsipras, the news director of the ERT and an old author of "AUGIS". Listen to what he writes, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and the rest of the parties, ERT news director: "I came to ERT for work and not jobs..." Do we understand now? "Business" means workmen. Does that say who to the government and to Mr. Tsipras? It is said by the ERT news director appointed you, the author of "AGEI". In other words, I beg your pardon, Buddour is a slander, who says he was lost 180 million, Artemio accidentally saw light and entered Maximos, who are in the "Panama Papers" and offshore, the Capato here, who blames him for not letting them do business is also a slander and they bring him with a judiciary clerk outside. Uh, what moral advantage on the Left, you guys, we're talking about? You guys in here in a year and a half you've been in all the tricks. We can't make it to you. That's what this is about. So you will not come here to blame New Democracy, but you will come here to tell us that Mr Buddour was wrong, because, for example, management is not in Norway 15,000 but is so or that in Greece it is not 12 000 but it is as per capita as Mr Buddour said. You will prove to us that what Mr Buddour says is slander. Because Mr Buddour is not everyone, but he is your Secretary-General, I repeat. It's a big surprise to me. I, if I were Minister and my Secretary-General, was making such a complaint, the next second I would have answered. I would have called an extraordinary press conference to go out and say: 'Does my Secretary-General play with my honour and reputation?' If New Democracy hadn't called you here today, you and Mr. Tsipras would not have answered. I therefore ask you very much, because this procedure is called parliamentary scrutiny, we have the constitutional right to judge you and you have the constitutional obligation to answer us, to tell us with evidence, how much per capita each immigrant, refugee, illegal immigrants in Greece, how much in other countries of Europe, to understand whether what Mr Buddour is saying is true or false. Whether you like Mr. Buddour, whether Mr. Buddour likes you, we're coldly indifferent. Last question. Today you appointed a new Secretary-General. You said earlier in your speech that you did not need to give him authority, speaking of Mr Budouris. To the new Secretary-General appointed today, did you confer responsibilities or have you followed the same model as Mr Budouris? To understand, in a few months' time, can he also come out and tell us that he can't work with Mr. Muzala and resign and do what he does or now, learn from the past and now give him authority? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis. Parliamentary spokesman of SYRIZA and MP of Chios, Mr Andreas Michaelides, has the floor for six minutes. The Minister will be gone for a minute from the Chamber, but he will be back. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, it has been said several times in this Chamber that the New Democracy often draws its opposition material, its opposition issues from the newspaper headlines, and, indeed, specific newspapers which have, as you know, taken on the government's degradation. Today, with the question tabled by my fellow Members, they seem to extend the area from which they draw opposition material and include a removed, dismissed Secretary-General of a ministry. Let me make a very brief comment selectively, of which they have already been heard. We have heard - and because they are listening to us in Chios, dear colleague - about four and a half thousand refugees in Chios. Some people are gonna laugh at Chios. I guess you're not well informed. We have heard an argument that the Chios Municipality was abandoned with a few hundred thousand euros to deal with the whole issue of refugee. Let me remind you, Mr Colleague, that the Northern Aegean Region has received EUR 5 million in addition to addressing these issues. I therefore believe that, as regards the substance of the question, which you have tabled, ladies and gentlemen, some of the answers have been answered and other answers will be followed by the Minister. I would just like to note on the part of financial management that in L.4375/2016, which this government voted for, there is, among other things, the establishment of an autonomous Management of Migration Policy Services in Article 28, as well as a Special Secretariat for Coordination and Resources Management from the relevant European Fund. I think that with two such institutions, perhaps a spoonful one will think that we are trying to trick them and follow the tactics that you refer to in your question. As far as the absorption of funds is concerned, I would remind you that the sums, which are sometimes referred in a naive way, concern the country as a whole. That is to say, not only the government but also the international and non-governmental organisations operating in the country, and indeed, within five years. It is not all directly disbursable, that is, the amounts you refer to, and the rates of absorption to which you refer. I shall also try very briefly to deal with the substance of the issues relating to the management of the refugee. First - you will allow me to highlight the unprecedented volume of the refugee and secondary migration wave, which in 2015 and until the signing of the Turkey agreement in March 2016 has, in fact, received explosive proportions. From our country in 2015, about three out of four out of the 1.2 million people who sought refuge in Europe. The unprecedented for post-war data, this refugee wave, few are denying it. A number of them, however, and the New Democracy, do not see it, as, of course, this can mean its management. A second point is the administrative weaknesses of Greece. This dimension refers first of all to the rapid weakening of critical state services, which was a central feature of your policies, beyond, of course, the abuse of the various policies imposed by the Memorandums, the inability of the state machine to deal with the refugee, which is, of course, linked, at least in a large part of the previous period, to the migration policy of the New Democracy itself. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A third point is the European Union-Turkey agreement itself. First of all, we must remember one of the main reasons for this agreement, which is that many European governments refuse to take part in the division, not even the closure of borders, with whatever problems this could cause in our country. I would also like to mention that only four days after the official announcement of the European People's Party after the Maastricht Summit, the leaders of the European Right are trying to make Greece a rival victim again, calling it the only person responsible for delaying the asylum procedure. It is, at least, outrageous to call this by forces that refuse to assume their own responsibilities. By the way, let me ask again What is the position of the New Democracy and its President on this communication? I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u95	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, these indicative references are the votes of a policy which we are implementing to address a complex issue, which obviously goes beyond any individual country. Our knowledge of the refugee issue is the timeless values of the Left, which you are using by system, colleagues of the New Democracy, solidarity and anti-racism, universal humanitarian values, the principles of European solidarity and, of course, international law. Instead of looking for supposedly'skies', instead of leaving their relatives to the unavoidable European right-wing parties and governments, rather than 'closing the eye' - as we see in some cases being the case lately at both the central and the local level - to xenophobic logic and practices, we call on the New Democracy colleagues to exercise their opposition role in terms of democratic accountability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr. Michaelides. Parliamentary spokesman for the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Panagiotis Ilioopoulos, MP Magnesia.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u98	Mr President, it would really be laughing at today's sitting if it did not deal with such an important issue perhaps the most important issue in our country. I'll start with the New Democracy. Adonis Georgiadis is leaving. I will shortly testify to something that concerns you, sit down, Mr Georgiadis, and you and your golf friend - the seat I mean - Mr Vorides. I have some paperwork on you. So the New Democracy has called us here today to talk to them about refugee, about illegal immigration, as much as it hurts you in the New Democracy, who have never mentioned this word, as well as you, of course, of SYRIZA, with the conceptions. So the New Democracy is calling us here today and I will read out exactly what its question says. We are unable as a country, to ensure the necessary living conditions for refugees and immigrants, but also to ensure the necessary level of management, transparency for both Greek and European society. Somewhere he asks: "What are the contracts as a whole arising on the basis of direct awards?" So the New Democracy only cares about that. Why are the misery today going to the symbiotes and not going to the neo-democratics and pasoktziers? Why are refugees and refugees not having a good time in the center? Because I don't know if you were there, Mr. Georgiadis, when your handwriting minister went to Amydaleza and he was proud to have air conditioned these centres, which you hosted, probably one centre, the one in Amydaleza. One you had done to show it, with air-conditioning etc. SYRIZA has the same and best convoys today. I'll read and submit to the Practical Publications of your Gymologist friend Voridis. "When I grow up Greece will have three and a half million foreigners." He'll have more. And he says: "Stop it, Makis Voridis". In other words, Europe has a borders. Not in Turkey, Makis Voridis". Another post is very interesting for you, the neo-democrats: "Photos and axes to the pilgrims, Mr Karamanlis and New Democracy, who sold Cyprus in 1974 and support the degrading foreign policy of PASOK, Makis Voridis. We agree and we increase. Also in another post Makis Voridis - who is not in his youth, codjam mantrahaul is here - with the Vice President of the French National Front. Bravo! Makis Voridis Democrat, and today he says other things. Last and best - let us show it to the camera - what you voted on, Mr Georgiadis, when you were going to candidate for Attica. I read exactly what your election brochure said: "No mosque in the Botanic. If you want the Athens centre to become the largest Islamic ghetto in the Balkans - and I read it, because I agree with you - by making the mosque in the Botanic, vote for one of the other nine. But if you don't, you have a choice, Adonis Georgiadis. Think of one thing. The concession of land to I.M. Batopediou was considered a scandal, the free concession of land and the money of Greek taxpayers given for the mosque, what is it?” I am presenting for the Minutes the articles and the poster by Mr Georgiadis. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Panagiotis Iliopoulou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned articles, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'll tell you what it is. It is the political flaw and yours and Voridis and everyone in the New Democracy, who you are voting in favour of the jams. This is the political atrocity. You're a comedian, you're coming back from party to party, and you can get a seat. Very good was what you said and agreed. But Parliament's seat is above all. The New Democracy therefore votes for mosques, with hands and feet and sends some here, supposedly the far-right wing of the New Democracy, Mr Vorides, Mr Georgiadis, some of the MPs from the islands to defend the fairs of the Greeks. This is the New Democracy. Do not forget your President's sister with Action Aid, with the mosques, again, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u99	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u100	Now let's go to SYRIZA. SYRIZA Minister comes here without saying anything. SYRIZA comes here with the ideas and incredible racism against the Greeks. Gentlemen of SYRIZA, you need to be looked at by a doctor. These ideas need a psychiatrist, because you hate whatever national, whatever Greek, you have a huge hatred against the Greeks and such a great love for illegal immigrants. Why don't you put them in your house? On education the other day, your Minister, Poppas, told us what he wants for the children of SYRIZA. I don't know what he meant. Apparently he meant someone other than your Chief, the Prime Minister of the country. We have to admit that it gives a good example. He sends his kids to a school that doesn't have any illegal immigrants in Hill School. Very well it does, it's just that the average Greek doesn't have a choice. You have deprived him of it, of the New Democracy, which you are smiling with, with the anti-racist law, because anyone who speaks against the illegal immigrants now falls under the anti-racist law, which SYRIZA and New Democracy have voted for. Schools Hill, therefore, for the President of SYRIZA and Prime Minister of the country, but schools with illegal immigrants for all other Greeks. That's your anti-racism. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Unless Mr. Pappas means association with illegal immigrants for the children of another SYRIZA minister, Mr. Skourletis, whose children do hang out with illegal immigrants. But why are they hanging out with illegal immigrants? To burn Athens, the Greek flag, the offices of the political party and proud of the false revolt Minister Skourletis. So this is SYRIZA, who, with his ideas, has filled our country with illegal immigrants. For education, I told you. You give millions of millions of dollars to get the children of illegal immigrants to school who don't even want to integrate. They want to get up and go. We want the same for them. As far as health is concerned, you have flooded the hospitals with illegal immigrants who enter - come out for free and do everything for free. If a troubled Greek cannot pay his insurance contributions, clearly the account comes through TAXIS and pays it for the rest of his life and if he lives.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u101	You're out of your mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u102	You and your whole party have lost it. You've lost it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u103	Please! Don't answer underneath. Don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u104	Unfortunately, I will once again...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u105	He's got free insurance for two and a half million people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u106	I don't hear you or see you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u107	Me neither.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u108	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u109	You are a 4% cut, a 4% shop.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u110	Criminal organisations don't see us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u111	Okay, nobody listens to you. You don't have a microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u112	I am addressing the President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u113	You're a 4% shop. You're redeeming this 4%, now that you've been hammered on us in the neck, in power. Very soon you'll leave and we'll get rid of you. Unfortunately, they will come here and you will all collide together, except Gold Dawn. You will collide and you will show your true face so that after the Golden Dawn of Hellenism comes, finally, and make the scenery clear, enter a class, become the state again, to settle. I will say very simply and so I will close that with all of you in here - I say this every day to all those who meet me - we are unfortunately in trouble. Fortunately there will be elections soon, you will collide and all the Greek people will understand your mess. Well, you don't even get 15%. You don't get 25%. You'll be forced to confront. The people will understand you. The masks will fall and the Golden Dawn of Hellenism will come whether you like it or not, at last to save our country, to save our children. Because with you the only future they will have, it will be sharia, terrorism and Muslims will be more than the Greeks. If you think this will pass, you'll be mistaken. Golden Dawn is coming to save the country. Laugh as much as you like. We will laugh at the end with the Greek citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u114	Mr Georgiadis has the floor for a minute, on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u115	Listen, dear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u116	Don't address yourself there, but here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u117	To contact the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u118	I'm not talking about you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u119	You made a mistake. I'm not like the others you think I'm not gonna answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u120	You're the worst.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u121	Be quiet. I didn't interrupt you at all. I never lose my temper.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u122	You guys from morning till night.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u123	Yes, sir. Well, listen now after I'm screaming. That's a nice poster trick. I could answer, for example, all the books and articles of Mr Michaloliakus and Mr Cassidiari in favour of Hitler and how you now say you are not nazi.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u124	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u125	So it would be very nice to have such a debate in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u126	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u127	As to the mosque, I was in a speech...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u128	That way, Mr. Georgiadis, not that way. We won't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u129	I was talking to five hundred people two weeks ago - you could have come - open to the public at the City Hall of Alimos and there I explained to those who asked me - five hundred people and whoever was inside - and they were all convinced by the arguments. I'll come back. But I will actually go because I am interested in the good of the Greek people in fact and not like you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u130	Always, always.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u131	Well, you gentlemen of the Golden Dawn, you are the ones with your vote in the presidential election, you have cast the government of Antonis Samaras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u132	And we did well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u133	And you did well, you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u134	Prophet Samara. And we'd do it a hundred and fifty times again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u135	Don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u136	Mr. Georgiadis, do you know where I was?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u137	Don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u138	I'll interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u139	Mr. Eliopulus, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u140	Mr. President, do you know where I came from to vote? From the Korydaloo prisons that I was shut down by this political scumbag, and he's gonna tell me that we threw him down?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u141	First of all, in prison, you got the justice and no Samaras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u142	Have you heard of Baltaco?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u143	But that's not how it works. Mr. Georgiadis...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u144	Here's Babis. Tell us, Babe, who sent us to prison...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u145	I'm coming back. I need a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u146	Please! Leave it for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u147	Golden Dawn is supposed to be a party concerned with immigration, through its action made Ms. Tasias Christodoulopoulos Minister, who opened the borders and came to Greece a million and a half and sits and suggestions in the New Democracy. To put it in the Minutes, Mr President, I would remind you that when we voted in this House to build the closed-type centres, the Amygdaleza mentioned earlier, the Golden Dawn voted "OH" along with SYRIZA. So people know...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u148	Sell a Quran now and don't talk!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u149	You won't tell me when to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u150	Mr. Georgiades!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u151	You're wrong! We didn't define you here as a spaceguard, who's gonna talk and who's not, okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u152	Don't say anything about your Samara.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u153	So you, with your vote, opened the border, and you, with your vote, shut down the centers. Well, don't make suggestions to us!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u154	Mr. Georgiadis, you're done. Parliamentary spokesman for the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Papatheodorou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u155	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, while listening to all this earlier, I wondered whether, by coming to the Step, you would start again with what you said: 'But should we say the same again'. That is what you said earlier. It would allow me to tell you - I have no controversy on this issue - that it was provocative. It was provocative, because you make such voices, Minister, unfortunately. We will say the same again and often again, because the problems exist, Minister, and when the citizens concerned come from the specific islands you are talking about, their problems want to solve, but not their individual problems. They want to save their territory, Minister! You spoke earlier. We visited with Mrs Gennimatas "VIAL" in Chios. You know what? We have heard two different colleagues from two different figures. One colleague says: 'Four and a half thousand'. 'The world is laughing' says the other colleague, 'it is not for four and a half, they are much less'. So you know what I'll tell you? We went to Chios - and I am not from Chios, I am simply in charge of this area - and I personally asked three different institutional actors on the island how many refugees and immigrants are on the island. Minister, I got three different kinds of answers. Do you know why I got three different answers? I don't want to expose people, but all three were right. So they were right because, when they come and get the trippets - you know what triplets are - go, because they can't stay, because the hot spot as a hosting center is loaded. They're coming back after a while, Minister, and they're staying where? Ladies and gentlemen, why didn't you say so? Where are they staying next? What did you call the city's ‘informal hospitality centre’? I imagine you've been there and not that you've only been there, but have you found that the conditions are not human? You know that they're sleeping everywhere, where they can, why don't there be no room? So, because that is exactly the problem, we must talk again and talk about these issues again. But you have said something else, Mr Minister, and I find that provocative. They sent it to me before and told me 'why does it cancel us like this?' You said there was no health problem on the islands. Have you asked the police and the porters? Have you felt the fact that they don't want to reveal issues that they will expose us, Minister, as a country? Do you know that many people from them are infected with disease and do not confess?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u156	Like what?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u157	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u158	You don't know? Please ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u159	What diseases?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u160	Ask the police trade unions and porters.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u161	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u162	I'll tell you what they've got. Do you know how many have been hospitalized or how many have been attempted to nurse in Chios and there are no drugs?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u163	They were attempted to be nursing?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u164	And you gonna tell me where?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u165	Have they been attempted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u166	In Chios, in your constituency. And because these people have a sense of duty, which I don't know if you have...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u167	An attempt at hospitality?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u168	No attempt. They tried, but they can't. There are no drugs. They don't find drugs, and you know what? You do well to say it because, when you return to your island again, they will explain to you which policemen have been hospitalized and which porters. These, however, are causing, ladies and gentlemen, this way of dealing. Have you heard of the mistress? I'm asking because you want to have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u169	What's a guess, sir, you know? What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u170	As they have not revealed, it is good for you to go and ask them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u171	I'm a doctor. What do you think? You're talking about a mansion? Madu means he got in touch sometime with a...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u172	Hepatitis, do you know what it means, Mr. Doctor? You know?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u173	That doesn't mean he's a patient. What are you talking about? Aren't you a little ashamed to say this from the Step of the House?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u174	Do you know how many people have been out of service on the island where you're supposed to be representing the world? That's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u175	What you're saying is inadmissible. It's a shame to say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u176	Keep time, Mr President, because it is not interrupted when I am interrupted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u177	You better stop talking because you're being exposed!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u178	I am simply telling you, then, that these are complaints from trade unions that exist. There are these complaints and they are names. You said before, Minister, that fortunately the new reception secretary, who has come, comes into an environment that has been stabilised. Has this environment been stabilised with these problems, when on the same island of Chios you know there is still no coordinator, after so many months? We went to an on-site visit to ask who is the coordinator who can talk to us about the problems and we found that there is no coordinator. On the contrary, Mr Minister, we read - and answer our question as well - that in some cases there is a decision to appoint certain coordinators. These decisions have not been made, at least we have not seen them. It's not known. Their responsibilities are not known. The scope of their powers is not known. Apart from a young co-ordinator known after a complaint by your Member - and waiting, according to the Minister, for him to be hired because he was judged, he says, he is well qualified - there are a number of others who have not been appointed and others who are heard as former mayors, of the Minister's children. Whatever everyone wants, because there's no plan. That's what this is about. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I ask for your tolerance because for at least two minutes I have been interrupted. We are very impressed by the management - which has otherwise stabilised! - the refugee. The budget of the two projects resulting from the increased refugee flow is EUR 12 million. While these EUR 12 million should have been granted as an emergency grant because of our country's conditions, this was not possible. On the contrary, is there or is there not a 25% participation of the Greek state in these two projects? There is. If there is - and answer me if I'm wrong - participation of 25% of the Greek state's budget, the 3 million euros at 12 million...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u179	What kind of plays are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u180	The first project is to train refugee children. The second project - I will give you it - is in the period 2014-2020 and has done the urgent measures that you should take immediately. As you said before, the European Commission has already given EUR 6 million under the urgent procedure. How far will the final budget of all this management reach? We had asked to know - and you did not answer - how much it has cost so far. I would like to tell you something else, and I will be waiting for an answer. Minister, is it so difficult because of the urgent situation, the emergency situation, to have a special page in the 'DENMARK' where everything will be posted so that no one can talk about commissions? Because until now neither from the Ministry of National Defence nor from the other Ministries have a total figure that says that so far it has cost so much and in the coming years it will cost so much. I'm hanging up with this. There is a planning issue. Indeed, the islands cannot withstand the stay of all these refugees and economic migrants. We have proposed, Minister, that there should be consultation with the European Union on even temporary decongestion, with the establishment of these people in the country, without violating the agreement, and you know that very well. The deal doesn't write anything like that. The implementation of the agreement you chose to make has entangled these people in the islands. Yes, but economic affliction will create a new migration, and the new migration is when our children ask that the tourist season is closed, we know that the year is 80% down, and from that point on, we will not be able to live on our island. That is what you have to answer. And that's what we'll talk about, and we'll talk about it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr. Papatheodorou. Christos Katsotis, Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, Mr President. The question as it seems appropriate for the racist delinquency we have heard from the Golden Dawn on other extreme right-wing logics or approaches to the subject, but also for the continuation of the disorientated game of corruption and interlocutory, which is all played in the last period, not of course that there is, but that will be as much as this rotting system exists. We also stressed in the previous debate that management policies on the issue of refugees are conducted with reasonable markets, business interests and conflicts because the money is a lot and this conflict is being transferred here as well. Behind today's question is the European Union's choice with which, gentlemen, you all agree that non-governmental organisations should be given a grant. Up to now they have received EUR 87 million, as the Minister said, unless otherwise provided in the recent period. From what the Minister has said, too, that these funds from the NGO are not being controlled by the government - they seem to have to offer a great deal of work to ensure that they are not accounted for in the Member States where they operate and are being subsidised for a specific project. So, from today's debate with this content, the cause of the refugee is the implementation of the imperialist planning in the region, which is confusing toys and war conflicts here. These designs are agreed by the bourgeoisie of our country, as well as by the political forces that serve it. The European Union's decisions on the management of refugee and immigration are being concealed, such as the EU-Turkey Agreement which traps double thousands of refugees in our country. According to our data, sixty thousand nine hundred nineteen are the incarcerated refugees and immigrants in the country. If we're wrong, correct us, Minister. The islands still have the lion's share, because according to our figures there are fifteen thousand six hundred thirty-five, again if we are wrongly corrected. In northern Greece there are thirteen thousand five hundred, in central Greece two thousand eighty nine, in Attica eight thousand six hundred sixteen, in southern Greece two hundred and one, in the hospitality structures of the High Authority nine thousand seventeen hundred and seventy one, in the non-organised two thousand ninety-seven and outside structures are estimated to be eight thousand seventeen hundred. Is it right, Minister, that they should be relocated from Greece to other Member States - sixty-six thousand refugees? Is it also correct that three thousand seven hundred have left the nine months of validity of the programme? Is it right that seven thousand have passed from the Greek authorities as well as from the European Union services, but the other Member States do not open up positions to receive them? You must also tell us what the criteria for relocation are. Are vulnerable groups excluded, minors? Is the profitability, the non-help of so-called welfare systems, or is it not? These are elements which you must give us, because at the moment these criteria have not been made public. Is the discussion of support for all political forces outside the JRC in this unacceptable agreement and the strategic consequences for refugees, migrants, but also for our country's population in the EU-Turkey Agreement? To the refugees, but also to the inhabitants of the islands, as well as to the other regions, you must all apologize to support this agreement. The Commission is threatening to return to our country as a first country of entry from other countries by implementing the Dublin III regulation, which you have agreed with him, Minister. The European Union is financing the NGOs and the Greek Government precisely because it wants to trap refugees in our country, to prevent them from going to other countries which had their destination. Living, hygiene and health conditions, despite funding, are still at a terrible level. These conditions lead to protests, clashes, hot spot episodes. Many are staying in tents and the winter that comes will be very heavy over their lives, from their health, and this needs to be addressed immediately. Already the delay is great and whatever still exists can be fatal for some of them. Food in many structures is not eaten. The responsibilities may be shared, but the main ones belong to the government, which can only guarantee food for people. Set clauses, Minister, whatever they play with people's lives. Refugees who have so far been registered in schools are only a thousand five hundred of the thousands of refugees depriving them of basic education. The other kids where are they? Unaccompanied children must immediately, without further delay, Minister, be transferred to specific structures. You said too that he cannot be in the CFP with the other refugees. They must be transferred to specific structures, and because money is there, and in any case no one will misunderstand you or ask you to explain it here because you have done the special structure and it has cost you so much. We must also say that the delays, particularly in reunification of children with their parents, are criminal, Minister. The reunification cannot proceed immediately. You must do everything here to get this process going. The implementation of the European Union's decisions has all these and many other consequences for the refugees and residents of our country. We must immediately dismantle the islands. We cannot understand, Minister, why they are not being transferred to mainland Greece at least those who have obtained an initial authorisation for the asylum request. Why can't that be? The argument that there are no suitable spaces cannot be repeated, Minister. The European Union, with its latest decisions, continues with restrictive immigration and asylum policies, policies that cause widespread human misery. It insists on the doctrine of the deterrence of the uprooted who seek asylum in the capitalist paradise. The protection of the external borders, the policy of preventing refugees and migrants are the directions of the European Union that is coming to implement the European Border and Coast Guard, which has already undertaken the project and the Member States are managing, providing equipment for this new repressive mechanism in order to achieve full capacity for rapid response and return by the end of the year. The rapid adoption of the revised Schengen Borders Code imposing systematic checks on all travellers crossing the external borders of the European Union is also progressing. It also proceeds an entry-out system before the end of 2016. The Committee's proposal to set up a European Information and Travel Licence system is ready to be carried out by security checks on travellers exempt from the visa requirement and not to be allowed to enter where necessary.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u183	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u184	I shall conclude, Mr President, if you will excuse me. Finally, I must say that the European Council is already calling for further efforts to be made to achieve returns from the Greek islands to Turkey, when resettlements and relocations are carried out at a very short rate. It also called for continued work on the reform of the common European asylum system. You did it here today, too. And we believe that it will be even more tragic for the refugees themselves, for their rights. It will be in an even more reactionary direction all the management of the refugee in the next period. The European Council will return to this issue in December, says, and from all decisions so far, it seems that this framework will be in a very reactive direction. We say, Minister, that they must ensure that refugees are safely taken to their countries of destination, that they have decent conditions of temporary hospitality until they have completed their registration and that the families are immediately reunited, with priority being given to the unaccompanied. Finally, with regard to the various complaints about financial management, we call for all these complaints to be investigated, for responsibilities to be attributed, if they exist and where they exist. And we must say that we are radically opposed to what you said about the new Almonds that you want to do in the islands and the rest of Greece. Hey, that's enough! The concentration camps must be finished. We have said temporarily open hosting centres and of course not to go back on the refugee rights, where they want, if you want, all these forces who are approaching the whole issue from another racist side. Those who kill them want again here to kill them a second time, through these great overthrows in refugee rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr Katsotis. The Parliamentary spokesman from Potami, Gregory Psarianos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u186	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have listened very carefully to the Minister, whom he personally, even though he is the Minister of this government, I appreciate and respect him, and I believe he is trying to do things. That is why I listened very carefully and heard what the Minister said on the subject, you said: 'Come and work together, set back, solve this problem, without lying', you said, 'and without insurgent'. You said that as a representative of the 'Pinochio Government', which has flammed us into lies and which for four to five years had a continuous, constant rebellious. Since this crisis broke out, which we said from the very beginning that "the crisis has brought the memorials and not the memorials of the crisis", you have seized us on the channels that we are the representatives of the lenders. You remember this, the current representatives of the lenders, the government you represent and in which you participate, Mr Muzala. 'The crisis brought the memoranda and not the memoranda of the crisis'. Now they call that symmetrical. Representing the lenders? Are there germans, donors, hoodmen, Cholacoglou, Quislings? In order not to generalize it very much and continue in this style and intensity, I would like to tell you that when we, at the beginning of the SYRIZA - ANEXEL Government, of the first-time left-wing government, said it was immigrants, refugees, and not illegal immigrants, but illegally migrants, there were many Syrians saying that 'there are no immigrants and refugees, all of them are', something such intelligent, something like such ideas. Nice to meet you. And the dead and the living people are, all human beings are, all beings on this earth are human. But there's more immigrants and more refugees. Another category wanted to be tackled and the other one and the third, namely illegal migrants. These are three different categories and they want three different confrontations. And there was Mrs Tassia, the Minister, who had opened the arms of the country, saying that we have a great heart and an open hug and that in the squares these 'immigrant-refugee-humans', who then disappeared for Europe. That's not what I'm saying, Mrs. Tassia says and a lot of other interesting things. You guys were gone then. I don't know if you were in the country. If you were here, you must have heard that. So when we opened the borders and welcomed with love not the Syrian refugees, but people from Macreb, from Algiers, from Morocco, from Mauritania, from Nigeria, from Zimbabwe, from Afghanistan, from Pakistan, from Pakistan, who were not refugees of the Syrian crisis, we gave the slogan that "We are an open country, come" and we were threatening Europe. In front of Mrs Tassia, it was Mr. Panos next door who threatened Europe that we would flood the 'Berlin' and Brussels with illegal immigrants that if you are not okay, we would open the doors and get you out of there. Mr. Panos Kammenos said that, of the left government. The Minister of National Defence of the Left Government! Today we had another episode, a sad episode again in Moria, Lesvos, another arson insurrection, fires, arrests and incubations. It was the most numerous time that happened, and not only in Lesvos, or Lesvos, or in Mytilini, I don't remember, in any of these islands. That was funny.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u187	That's a good joke.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u188	Good joke? Successful? Like the three hundred sixty-degree turn, the Prime Minister said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u189	Make another one!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u190	On the other hand!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u191	The Prime Minister said that. Graduate in polytechnic. The Prime Minister said "Don't expect me to turn three hundred sixty degrees". But he has turned and ninety and eighty and three hundred sixty and seven hundred twenty - five degrees. I would like to say that this government, and the first and second, the SYRIZA - ANEXEL, the left-wing government, has already failed to manage this crisis, which to a large extent has caused, to a large extent, a refusal from the outset to deal with it. He closed Amydaleza as a modern Dahow, because the conditions were very inhuman. Now we have reopened the Almondsa - and is it 'Musala Resort' or 'SYRIZA - ANEXEL Resort'? - and twenty more, which we have opened and should have opened up as mobility centres and assign asylum to those who are entitled to asylum and to facilitate those who want to go elsewhere and to go back, relaunch those who have no such justification to demand asylum or relocate to another country. In recent statements, migration inflows have increased 750% compared to 2014 and 2015. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will also take my second time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u192	There is no denunciation in parliamentarians. But you will have a tolerance as we have shown to the other speakers. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u193	Wait a minute, Mr. President. We have therefore heard the recent statements by the Deputy Minister for Immigration Policy that if the European Union-Turkey agreement falls, we will have very difficult times. It now calls on all parties to force European partners and their sisters in Europe to put their backs on this agreement with nails and teeth. That's right. We have heard the complaints made by SYRIZA's MP, Mrs Stabulli, that a member of the party not only took a job to feed refugees of EUR 750 000, but that this work will be controlled by his daughter. We also heard peaks for waste in refugee from Odysseus Buddour. I would like to raise the question: at the cost of life in Norway and at the cost of life in Greece, the difference from 12 000 there, with 15.5 to 18 000 here, as Buddour said on the radio, what is it? What's the cost per person here? The Minister must answer. How much is a refugee or an immigrant cost per person in Greece, compared to the 12 thousand in Norway? Norway, I think, does not get much money from the European Union to deal with these issues. We get a lot of money, which is managed by some NGOs and some 'locals'. I think that they are making a great deal of lisverism and there is a great deal of lalaver with the refugee, which the government uses as a lever of pressure towards Europe and as a system of 'to arrange for a variety of customers'. I do not want to say now names and addresses, what is happening on the islands, what is happening in Igoumenitsa, how many lawyers and whose party they were, who defended these people's human rights and said about the free movement of people, etc. These things we have heard dozens of times and with these stupid and stupid policies, incomplete and ineffective - not yours, especially the previous ones. But yours now aren't the best. You have told us here 'butts wrong'. I'll take it. But these fascist misery of racists and criminals and delinquents amplify, which are intensified and heard in this House - and I am ashamed to hear them - from such policies, foolish, incomprehensible and ideoleptic, that they are all human beings. In other words, the isovites from Morocco, who have five murders each and are here among us, are also human beings.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u194	Please complete, Mr. Fisherian. You've exceeded time a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u195	I would like to say many more things and with much more information and to give figures in particular for things that are happening in Chios, Lesvos, Kos, Leros and for summer tourism. The tents of Platanus, Kos, Samos, Pythagorio and Vathy and everywhere were chaos. Not to mention other things that were happening in Lesvos, which last summer and last summer I was there, making the dallaby with the inflatable and the inflatable. That's some other big lagers! I think it is really a national matter and I think we really should all do things together. But all together! You must remember that the "both or us" you said so. "They decided without us, we proceed without them," you said. "These are sellers, tons and sold-out donors," you said. Come on, let's all go together!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u196	We proceed with Mr Vassilis Kokkalis, MP Mr Larissa and Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank God, there are too many issues on which we can argue, fight, use heavy expressions in this Chamber. I think that refugee, but also immigration, is not a matter that needs and deserves such treatment. It's a national matter. Unfortunately, with the New Democracy's topical question, the opposite happens. He does not understand it, he does not take it as a national matter. I have heard features that Mr Kumucakos should say that we are not making opposition to the opposition. But let's start over. At the moment, the government is dealing with a very difficult issue, an unprecedented issue. No one disputes the difficult reality for certain islands. Nobody! Because we must finally get serious in this Chamber and not talk nonsense. No one's questioning it. No one disputes that there will be a complaint in thousands, as Mr Papatheodorou said. But I cannot be tempted to mention a bit of a historical event. What was and what was the point of the New Democracy's timely question? The absence of a plan? The living conditions in the hotspots? The funds? We cannot talk about the absence of a plan for these parties. I shall refer, Minister, to the Dublin Treaty. In 2015, it was impossible for all refugees and immigrants to come to Greece. And it is impossible for Tasia to blame refugees and immigrants. To know, gentlemen, the people who see us as not opposed to the Dublin Treaty at all. You did not say "My country as a foreigner, who passes through Greece and does not want to remain in Greece and seeks asylum in Germany to return here". Did you tell the world that? Did you explain? How many years has this Treaty been? The aliens were forced back here. My personal opinion is that most people didn't want to stay here. You have fully accepted this Treaty. The only one who had objected, first, to the immediate suspension was Panos Kammenos. According to this Treaty most were forced to live in Greece. So these particular parties are coming and now accuse the government of saying "you haven't had a plan since 2015. You have no plan in the management of immigration." We also call it immigration and refugee. I'm sorry, you should be ashamed of so many years that you didn't oppose this Treaty. It is well said by the Minister, 'Start back for Dublin III'. Put your back on. There are many issues on which we can fight against. But not for that. It's a sensitive national issue. The best answer to this topical question by the Members of the New Democracy is the European Council itself four or five days ago. What did he say? The European Council calls, with a view to Member States responding fully to the requests for funds identified by the relevant European Union agencies as necessary to provide support to Greece. In other words, the European Council recognises that Greece wants support. It acknowledges what the Greek Government has achieved, to transfer the matter to the European Union, to be European. What are you doing? The reverse. It's not Greek. It's European. You do not, unfortunately, contribute with your attitude to remain a European issue. For example, the need to support Greece is recognised by our European partners themselves, which you do not recognize. Of the four hundred interpreters considered necessary by the European Union, only the twenty-two or twenty-five have arrived in Greece. Also, of the four hundred and fifty-two experts deemed necessary by the European Support Office only a hundred and twenty were made available. However, all procedures have been launched as quickly as possible with the existing dynamic staff and will continue until the entire demand process is completed. We must understand that, as long as the demands and the number of asylum demands are increased, the need for staff is increasing. Asylum. It's a big talk. If I understood correctly, a speaker from New Democracy referred to asylum. Are you complaining about why the answers to asylum requests are being delayed? Is that possible? What was the legislative framework of previous governments in strengthening the Asylum Service, in the appeals procedure? Law 3907/2011 only. And now you come and tell us why they're not looking too fast. Mr. Athanasios, then the government had received funds for management. Where'd all this go? I repeat that it is not an easy reality for our islands, for Lesvos. It's not easy at all. There are many issues on which we can argue. But you must also contribute to this national objective, to resolving the national problem, - the Minister said so - and it is worth congratulating you on putting your back on Dublin III. Mr Simitis "criminal" signed and, unfortunately, Greece became what happened. This is the essence of the problem for the immigration plan, for the refugee plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u198	Thank you Mr Vassilis Kokalis, MEP Larissa, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks. Parliamentary spokesman of the Association of Centres, Georgios - Dimitrios Karras, MP II of Athens.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u199	Mr President, thank you. My dear friend and colleague will allow me, in advance, to correct: Asylum procedures with the last L.4375 and the amendment that came with the participation of judges in the appeal panels have deteriorated, because in law greater guarantees have been given, but in time they can only fail because four degrees of judgments are finally provided for in respect of a request for asylum: the first in the Asylum Office, the second indictment made before the Committee of Appeals and the Judges are involved, the third degree in the application for annulment of the administrative appeal provided for by the law and the fourth in the appeal to the Council of State. If you want to stay in Greece, even if you have no chance of success, of thriving, you will exercise these rights granted to them, you will create social, family conditions such as that which will ultimately remain, you will get a residence permit because of a long stay and that will not address the problem. But today, in this debate, which I must say that I have followed it very carefully from the outset, I fear that we must start preparing for the worst. I have heard Mr Muzala, who has made two major truths, but also two major confessions. Forgive me, Minister. So you spoke and said that the Migrant - Refugee is damage management. I fully agree with you. I fully agree with you in the management of damage. But what will be the extent of the damage that Greece, our country, will suffer from this crisis of immigration - refugee? Of course, it goes beyond the Greek limits and the Greek possibilities. I can't question that. But the loss management in this direction is also the management of economic resources. There too, I would like to say that the concepts and the treatment of state control which we are paying for have also prevailed in the management of economic resources. SYRIZA's good colleague was mentioned earlier in Article 28 of Law No.4375, which, in his view, created a self-sufficient management service for the migration-refugee problem. But that's not the truth. This so-called service, which manages finances, is subject directly to the Minister for the Interior. But we're leaving. What resulted in what happened? Do not give resources. The majority of European resources, Minister - you know this better than I do - are being channelled through non-governmental organisations or through UN agencies. I don't know the percentage. I know that's the case. And there was the next mistake to deprive the Greek state of resources. The Treasury spent an evening a strange law, in which he said he opened a special account, by way of derogation from the current public accounting provisions, to the Bank of Greece, so that the donations from the European Union and the other donations, by way of derogation from the public accounting system, would be directed. Do you know that this is a brake, because the European Union imposes, if a State receives money, that it is done through procedures and rules of transparency and European accounting? You wanted to avoid it. I'm not counting on Mr. Muzala. I don't even know if he knows that if he realized it because it came from the Treasury. I asked a timely question. I didn't get an answer. The Ministry of Finance told me that it was the responsibility of the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Economy told me that it was the Ministry of Finance. They didn't end up seeing who's in charge and who's unauthorized. They avoided the answer. I'm putting my question on the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Georgios - Dimitrios Karras, presents the above question for the minutes, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We are now going to the other issue of non-governmental organisations. Yeah, they're offering a play. I heard that you're trying to create registers and that in the next few days, you'll call the parties in dialogue. Is that enough, Mr. Muzala? Is there a certified non-governmental organisation in Greece? Do we know the rules under which they operate? Do we know the hidden purposes that they serve or have delivered to others, which we cannot control? I would be pleased, Mr Muzala, if you said that you were introducing certification procedures now, which should be implemented immediately, because we have not seen them. At least I don't know them. If you've introduced them, it'll be my ignorance, but I don't think so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u200	As you say, it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u201	Secondly, a great deal of truth about Mr Muzala, whom I have to say is that I see him with sympathy. He implied something that we all fear. He implied - he spoke with the word 'inclusion' - that no one really has to - live with dignity in camps, have all the opportunities for health, education, young children, have their health, have their hospitalization, have full feedingstuffs. All of this is respected and accepted. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude briefly, Mr President. That's where you implied accession, Mr. Muzala. You said there might also be a need to integrate some. Will this accession now be unanimous, in that neither the asylum office nor the Turkey-European Union agreement can function? I'm afraid of that, personally. Because of the international turbulence that exists around us, I fear that at some point the agreement of 18 March of the European Union - Turkey will not work, because Turkey's majestic policy will seek to solve other problems through pressures on Greece. It is not at present, but with regard to the flows which will arise - I fear - with a generalized war in the Middle East, we will face much worse things, which we are not even able to predict, and I do not want to predict them. For accession now, Minister. Greece - I do not have much objections to this - is ageing demographically. Greece has a problem of birth. He's in trouble - if you want - and new people. Can you achieve this accession, or will it be like in the previous periods, 'yourrings, everyone means', as those who are now in? If the sixty thousand become more, do you have an intensification program, in order to be useful in Greece, even if they remain? I would remind you of something else - and I conclude - because the New Democracy has not done better. I would remind you of Article 22 of Law No.4375 where there is necessarily 18 000 five hundred families, for which at least five years the request for asylum had not been examined, and for social reasons it was predicted that they have created families, that they have created working conditions and have remained in Greece. Are we gonna get to the same thing? Faced with this, Minister - not personally - the government as a whole, because it is unfortunately unable to solve this problem any more. And my last question: does the coordinator of the implementation of the agreement between Greece and Turkey, Mr Martin Fervei, have taken office, or is this also a hope of the future? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u202	We thank Mr Karras, who has completed the cycle of the Parliamentary Representatives. We are entering the course of the second readings of the honourable Members, first of all, Mr Kumoucako. Then will Mr Athanasios, Municipality, Ms. Kyriazides and the Minister. Mr. Kumucako, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u203	The description of the position of the Minister: A storm of questions, a drought of answers. Soon you would ask us, Minister, who is this Buddhist. However, you have had sufficient time and you have exploited it, shape and present to us the doctrine of 'cut-off'. It is the doctrine you will follow in dealing with the refugee. It is a dangerous doctrine, because the issue is a very critical one, it is a national dimension. You have also invoked us that we are saying the same thing. Mr Buddour's complaints, however, are not the same, they are new. We have heard the same thing from you, not from us. One more thing, because there was an attempt to teach the New Democracy that "this issue is a national" and you should not be criticising this kind of thing. It's a national matter. But does that imply silence in the Opposition? Where did these things come from? Just because it is national, precisely because it is serious, precisely because it is vital, when we see things going wrong, we will do our duty and our institutional role. And we'll do it strictly and justly. But I'm sure that's strict. You suggest to us, as far as our attitude to the European Union is concerned, and if we supported or did not support it, from the headquarters of the government they cannot be heard. It was the first thing we did. The President of the Party did so immediately after his election. We have tabled something to tell you about a traditional concept of opposition, as we did not have to - twenty-five proposals on how we see, how we deal with, how we think about the refugee issue. So where is the sterile opposition? But you asked for help, especially in relocation. Obviously, Europeans are not all right with Greece on the subject of resettlement. Obviously, there are great difficulties. And, obviously, these difficulties are growing, as in many states of Europe and the European Union they take the upper hand or in any case they increase their influence, extremes, from the darkest past of modern European history. And it's gonna get harder to relocate. Well, get ready. Prepare a plan B, because things show it's gonna be harder. It also needs a plan B, Minister, I hope you will have started working on it in your shadow Ministry, because it is a ministry without competence from what I understand - as to what will happen if the EU-Turkey Agreement expires. The possibility is not distant. We all despair it, but the possibility is real. Relations between the European Union and Turkey are not going well. And what is happening in the region at the moment is moving Turkey further away from Europe. It has no attitudes of a traditional ally of Europe at this time in Turkey. And I am talking about the question of Lausanne's dispute and everything else. So let's go to specific questions that you didn't answer. The history of travellers or non-transmigrants, who posted a specific Sunday newspaper, the “CORD”. What should Opposition do? To do that he didn't read it? Doing what doesn't exist? You didn't even deny it today. Disprove at least, to know where we are. As far as the cost of the refugee is concerned, what is the cost of the refugee? Can't we know? In February I told you that the Bank of Greece was talking about 600 million in 2016, you said 1 billion. We're approaching the end of the year. Can't we get an accurate valuation? Is it possible that we do not have an accurate valuation? What about that institution, Minister, of thousands of rented apartments for the establishment of refugees? How's it going? It is implemented, not implemented, are there any reactions, are there no reactions? Finally, because I do not want to exceed time, as far as the Ministry of Immigration is concerned, you cannot invoke neither your general secretaries nor the government that there is a focal point, without knowing who has responsibility, who has no responsibility, who has no right to sign, who has no right to sign. Go on to the issue of the Ministry of Immigration. It's necessary. Why? The refugee, Minister, you know it as a pilot - I think - well. The refugee has four phases, four stages. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, with that. The original is the deterrence. It is a good thing and every state must prevent the same reception of a shoulder wave of refugees from taking place as far as possible. The second is the management of borders, namely how to manage those who are going to cross. The third stage is control, order, security, public health. And the fourth stage is the familiarization of what stays with the new reality. I say reconciliation, and possibly integration of these people into the new reality. At the moment Greece at all four stages of the refugee problem is facing openly, very serious issues of malfunctioning, inefficiency and this is a very, very crucial issue. It cannot be tolerated in all four stages of the refugee question. Do something. Give us answers. And perhaps at some point on your own initiative an entire document or document that we have the full picture, that the National Representation will have it, that the people will have it, that the people will not have any misunderstandings, so that there will not be any - if you like - intercategories, without the evidence. Do what is imposed by your duty. Tell the National Representation, tell the Greek people exactly where the country is, what it is facing and how it will deal with it. As long as that's not clean, so much can we get into an endless conversation where we ask good faith and you don't answer, misguidedly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u204	We're continuing with Mr. Athanasios. Warm request, Mr Athanasios, to be very brief, because in your protagonists you have covered both the time and the terminology and the denology by four minutes. I think that the Bureau's view has been understood and I believe you will respect it, Mr Athanasios. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr President. After all, three colleagues have left before me, so I can use the time. I'm not gonna be late anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u206	Colleagues who are not in the Chamber by your parliamentary group and who were present in their first speech also covered the secondary issue which they were entitled to.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u207	Mr. President, I said that because I know...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u208	I'll tell you in particular. You had five minutes in your prototype. You two spoke twelve. The protology and denology of yours are a total of eight minutes and you spoke twelve minutes in the protology. So now I've put you three minutes tight. Respect the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u209	Mr President, please - if you like - you zero it? It's been a minute already.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u210	Mr. Athanasios, are you going to play? It's in my knowledge and time and I'll give you another twenty-five seconds that I took you away. Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u211	Thank you very much, Mr President. I wanted to say this very briefly, Minister. This year, the reduced flows - as I have been given the opportunity to say in my protology - are due to the fact that Turkey expects - and is pushing in this direction - to introduce a free visa regime. It is not because of policies and a programme by the government. Secondly, you have referred to a previous topical question that we have had and I cannot understand whether you said it less about former Prime Minister Antonis Samaras, who said that we will recapture the cities, apparently referring to - that is what you will probably be referring to - the report by Commissioner Müiznieks, who said that Samaras said 'we will recapture the cities'. But that was a political placement, a rhetorical shape. He didn't mean that Alaric of the Ostrogouts would come to take over Athens, but that there would be a security and a class in the center of Athens. Now for the islands. I said it before, analyzing the provisions and the agreements we have with Turkey, but also with the provisions of the law, which you voted in 2016. Where does it turn out that those who enter the islands must remain? On the contrary, in accordance with international rules and with the provisions I have mentioned, it can be very well given that the structures on our islands and especially on Lesvos, which I am referring to, are not enough to go to other parts of Greece, to mainland Greece, to Crete, perhaps - for example - in Tripoli, to Attica. So we cannot claim this much more when I tell you, Mr President, that in Lesvos the real hosting opportunities in Karatepe and in Moria do not exceed two thousand. So if it's twenty thousand tomorrow, they're staying in Lesvos? It's something I can't understand. To identify the committees now. I told you in particular that we were in agreement and we would vote, especially in the secondary committees, in the appeals, to be also retired judiciary and administrative pensioners - so that we could have more possibilities for the committees to be staffed. We wouldn't have had any objections. Now for what Mr. Coke said, whether or not we have a programme, I don't understand. Mr. Red is gone. Is there a problem, and is that where you invoke Europeans? I have said this once again and I am glad to say that all these Europeans who came from one - and let me say this - have a hypocrisy. They came to our homeland, made findings, but we never saw a solution. I would mention the examples of Feinman, Chancellor of Austria, Mr Schultz, artists too many, who have come and I cannot understand why we are coming back.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u212	To finish, Mr. Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u213	The New Democracy programme will be on four lines. Then, Minister, I did not expect you to say it - who are you talking about? Do you know how refugees lived in the centre of Moria until 2014 and early 2015? Today you have picture of the condition of infections, which exist, with congested people, mothers in the sun to breast-feed their children under trees, etc.Huh? What are you talking about? We had decent conditions. Of course, we had less people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u214	Mr. Athanasios...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u215	I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u216	I think that the limits of the Bureau's tolerance have now been exhausted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u217	I'm only talking about something because it was said. Our program is very clear. We want immediate decongestion of the islands, the direct staffing of the asylum committees, so that the asylum committees can be speeded up, effective control of the sea borders in the Aegean Sea and, above all, of the Greek forces, control of the NGOs with regard to the granting of licences and the operation of those committees - we have said how this will be done - and measures to alleviate our islands. That, of course, is not your responsibility, but I think that especially on this issue, which we committed ourselves to in a meeting of Maximos, and Mr. Flampouraris said it would help...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u218	Good, Mr. Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u219	For VAT, so that it won't be abolished...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u220	You've completed, Mr. Athanasios. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u222	The reason for this is that Mr. Pschakis, who was the only one of the honourable Members who was consistent in the time of his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u223	I will also be in dentistry, Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u224	I must point it out, Mr PR.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u225	Minister, the fact is that it is also proved through the complaints of your Secretary-General that all these months you have been blind to the issue of immigration - refugee. You have been consumed in rough solutions and the worst is that by showing more arrogantness you did not accept any proposals we made. But I asked you a question in my protology. If you'll send the case to the D.A. You didn't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u226	What case?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u227	I urge you to order an adjudicated administrative review of whether or not the complainants have been found and the conclusion of this ESA to forward it to the public prosecutor, irrespective of whether or not he will order a preliminary investigation or a preliminary investigation. But you founded as a party and as a government a Ghost Ministry. It wasn't necessary. Without structures, without infrastructure, without principles, without values, you made it walk. The Managing Authority was the Greek Police and the Port Body. In this respect, however, you ignored the bodies of security and practically abolished them. After you wanted to build a Ministry, why didn't you establish a ministry for universal Hellenism that we need? Five hundred thousand new immigrants are abroad, all over the globe and need the protection and guidance of the Greek state. Unfortunately, however, you did not even give them the vote they were asking for. However, you do not guard the borders as you should. You did not ask the Member States to assist the common guarding as you had to. In the most difficult historical phase of the issue of foreigners in Greece, as far as our country is concerned, we have the worst government and a bad minister, who does not understand the scale of the problem and its mission. We have often called for a common immigration policy - refugee policy, but you have chosen to follow your own path, which has led us to this chaos. No historical opposition has ever given such great tolerance to a government and instead of telling our President a thank you, and even in capital letters, you are giving us all here in the Chamber of the Greek Parliament. Do you know what this is called, saying a thank you, but do you leave us here ten Vice-Presidents on a timely question? Since the start of the problem, the Armed Forces have also been involved in the management, with the result that they are seconded from their main mission, which is to defend the country's national defence and integrity in Evros, on the islands and not just on the islands. It is up to the Greek soldier to serve those who violate the borders of the country and above all, then make them poor and prejudicial to us. Greece accepts, Mr. Minister, a peaceful attack on our islands and on the acronym Evro with a siege of your government. Others come from Eastern Thrace and others who have been here trapped for months are leaving for Turkey. The police and the Greek Army at the Evros border are awkwardly following this picture, this rape of the Greek borders, the borders that were depraved by struggles and wars. I say it's me who's five hundred meters from the Evros River, where I was born. You were born in Athens and you do not know our own pain.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u228	Mr. Purchass, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u229	Minister, I would like to stress that you are the government of all Greeks. You have historical responsibility. History will judge you strictly, because you did not guard our country and abandoned it at the mercy of foreigners. You have created and created an explosive climate and a mixture in the country. Those who come remain as a precipitation, because you brought the modern Austro-Hungarian with your own oligoria and indifference to our northern border. At last, guard the borders. You owe it to the Greek people in our country. If you can't, go. The economic problem Greece has sooner or later will overcome with great pain. But what you are creating will not be easily overcome. The pain will be a pain of destruction. I am very sorry to make this statement, but I know what I am saying. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u230	Mr Kyriazidis, the last honourable Member of Parliament, has the floor for two minutes, with a minimum tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Mr President. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitris Kyriazides, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Minister, you will have to answer today because we will come back again. It is a national issue, it is a serious issue, we cannot overcome it by mere references. They entered and left the country, as you say in your papers, about a million people. How many of them have we recorded? We need to get an answer. Secondly, as far as the disease in the hotspots is concerned, because you said that everything is going well, I have to say to you: we have sixty-nine cases of hepatitis, and I refer to what has been said. We have eight cases of malaria, a disease that the country had forgotten. We have twenty-four cases of tuberculosis. We have six hundred and thirty-five cases of windshield. We also have an insult to ports. These refer to official documents, which I shall be tabling. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitris Kyriazides, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Secondly, when did police officers, firemen and porters get the means, the materials for protection? Three months ago. Unprotected for so long.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u232	That's how we found them. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u233	You didn't find them that way. Because you made this report, so you talk about the center of Athens, but it was blocked by a permanent occupation. Congregations of the whole of Athens have been breathtaking. The stores operate in areas such as Psyros, in the period 2012-2014.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u234	When?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u235	You know that very well. And if you were the ones who protested as to pre-repeal, closed, amygdalae with those voices of anarchists. It's known. As far as I am concerned, Mr Minister, the reports you are trying to avoid from your Secretary-General are as if they were, as someone said. He's not someone. It refers to the provision of houses in dimensions, and it refers to around 8 000 euros, you, of course, choose the different by more than sixty centimeters to 12 000 euros. For Cordellio's SOFTEX. As far as NGO is concerned, human aid through the mediation of Christos Stylianides, two and a half thousand posts, so that two and a half million jobs will remain, you from your office say that you have rejected and led to 8.6 million. These are recorded and you must take a position on them. It's nothing abstract. It's specific. Your Secretary-General. Let's see, because I said before, closing my prototype, for this parallel scam. We have the amendment here, which is late in February, just to give it to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u236	Mr. Cryazides, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u237	I shall conclude, Mr President. It says that, by way of derogation from any legislation and any European legislation, you are making commissions. I shall also table the amendment tabled by you. I come, of course, to how you treat these hot spots, which you have made or hosting centres in the prefectures. I am reading to you the recently-expected Regional Governor - officially expressing from the Step of the House the condolences of all of us for a worker of Local Government - Mr. Pavlides, who says that we have been helpful, we have helped. Up to now we have not received any financial support from the state and in the absence of funds we are no longer able to ensure that we stay at this hosting centre, I mean BIP Drama. These, Minister, while we see, on the other hand, how on your part, your own people - they have also been mentioned by your colleagues in Serres, Kalamata, Chios, Litochoro, where there were two hundred refugees at the choice of SYRIZA youth, because that is where the young people of SYRIZA chose to do their holidays - you chose these centres, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u238	Mr Cryazides, you have already exceeded your time. Please, please, get it done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u239	These are logged and specifically, to see what your choices are and how the assignments were made. Nine and a half euros a day on your part, while in the previous year any citizen was 4.5 euros a person.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u240	What 9,5 euros?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u241	That's what the Greek state paid, the Greek taxpayer here for the hospitality of the refugees...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u242	And that is what you have done, Mr. Cryazides.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u243	...and then the same hosting center, created in a specific center in Litohoros. Let's get to know each other, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u244	Mr. Cryazides, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u245	I submit the relevant documents in the Minutes. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u246	The Minister has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u247	How much time do I have, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u248	Minister, you have the floor for ten minutes in your dentistry. But all of your time is twenty minutes the protology, ten minutes the denology and five minutes the tritology, totaling thirty-five minutes. You spoke 15 minutes in your prototype. So you still have plenty of time. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u249	Let's get on with it. Mr. Papatheodorou, we have a plan for the islands. It's possible she doesn't like it. But we have a plan for the islands. Here to make this clear, and I am sure you know that. We cannot transfer people from the islands without losing them from the Europe-Turkey agreement. That's for granted, no matter what we say. It is written, it is the view of the Commission, it is the opinion of the Member States. We're struggling to achieve it. We haven't succeeded, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u250	Negotiate to change that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u251	All the time, Mr. Papatheodorou. I've seen eleven interior ministers in a month and a half. Last week I saw all the groups in Parliament. I have been to Turkey three times for this, because Turkey must agree. It's a good idea. It doesn't matter whether it's ours or yours. It's important that we agree. We are very trying to do this and I urge you to help each of you through its parties in Europe. From there on, I think that what is being concealed by the islanders is that if the agreement between the European Union and Turkey is repealed, we will not get those on the islands and all the milk on the islands. The four, five, six, seven thousand per day, every night, will come back and see what the solution will be for tourism. What will be the solution for the problems of the islands? This is undercover by the islanders - not by you, not by your party. So we're trying to get rid of the population. We are really carrying on - one Member of Parliament mentioned it - those who have been judged not to be returned to Turkey. It's been over twenty-five days that we keep downloading people to Athens and putting them into other structures. We want to create better accommodation spaces to break the tension and we want to create closed centers, as they existed, but they were neglected before SYRIZA arrived. In Mytilini there was also in Chios. In Chios, in Myrsinidi, we have operated it for a short time. The aim is through these closed centres to have a message against the inconsistency which some of the irregular immigrants actually present and at the same time to be able to facilitate the asylum service. It's against the New Democracy being done on the islands in this thing. And that, gentlemen, is your problem. It's not our problem. If you want to tell us that you're glad we're going to do this, I don't mind, but you're fighting this thing on the islands. You're right about the coordinators. It's a bureaucraticly complex process. Right now it's in a contract notice and we think that within the next 20 days a month the coordinators will be placed in their place. This does not mean that the islands had no coordinators. This means that the islands had a combination of the army and the reception service, which was trying - and we think that in most cases they are successful - to balance things and bring them under very difficult conditions. You're wrong about the tuberculin for the mantle. You've got bad information. The tuberculin has ceased to be imported into Greece from the Memorandum prior to the coexistence of PASOK - New Democracy, because Greece had something to do with the Pasteur Institute and had ceased to import. We don't have a tuberculin for the Greeks either. The tuberculin we have brought came through the NGOs at their own expense and at the expense of the European Union and we have met all the needs. Your proposal for a special page in the 'GENERAL' - I am not an expert - does not sound bad to me. I'm gonna recommend it. I don't know if it's a paperwork, but it sounds good to me. I don't have to oppose anything. As far as asylum is concerned, we are making huge efforts. We received an asylum that had two hundred thirty. Today we have eight hundred and we're going to increase it. As you know, asylum is a strict legal service. That's not how the number can be increased. I mean, he can't go from two to two thousand. So we're trying too hard. We've got a huge improvement. But we're behind needs. Appeals commissions. We're building another eight. We already have seven. We believe that on 1 November they will have been created. This will all help to ensure that the returns to Turkey become normal, which they have already acquired at a small level. In other words, over the last few weeks we have been going around sixty to eighty a week in Turkey. We believe that by the end of November this will involve two hundred people a week. If EASO comes too, which we need help and pressure in Europe, it will get better. We're checking the NGOs now, as long as we can. The register shall be the certification of NGOs. It's the first time it's happened. In Lesvos, NGOs were controlled and found with economic and insurance irregularities and they are already toward the courts. Mr. Fervey is helping in the refugee, migration and coordination. Listen, time's too short. I realized that this was all done today to find out this: First SYRIZA will fall, then the New Democracy will come, then the New Democracy will leave and the Golden Dawn will come. That's what happened here today. What are you defending? What do you claim? Let's go see your schedule and your comments. No refugee, street immigrant, squares, fields. In your years were refugees and immigrants on the streets, squares, fields and every two years you made a gathering. Now, they're not on streets, squares, fields. Now, he's on camp, not very well. It's better than those that didn't exist. Economic migrants return to their countries. Readmission procedure in Turkey. How many did you get back? I'll give you the list again. How many did you get back? How many have you returned to Afghanistan all the years you've been a government? How many Syrians did you return? How many Pakistanis did you return? How many Moroccans did you return?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u252	How many were there, Minister, in Greece?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u253	I'll tell you. Four million have come to Greece in the last 13 years. How many did you get back? Where did you have them? Where is he? I told you before. Where is he? The border was opened by SYRIZA? Did SYRIZA do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u254	Who did it to Idiot?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u255	Four million came, Mr. Cryazides. Five thousand were the places you had for detention. Where did the others go, Mr. Cryazides? Where did the others go? What do you have to say about that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u256	Every month in Drama, we had protests.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u257	The others were in the squares. The others were in the fields. Some probably with traffickers - I don't associate you with the traffickers, for God's sake...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u258	That's all he was missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u259	It's not certain, because you do it, Mr. Kumucaco.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u260	You don't do us a favor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u261	I could tell you what you're talking about. I'll answer you, Mr. Comrade. Let's get together, though, a little bit. We need to know what we're talking about here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u262	Let's see what happens with unaccompanied minors.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u263	I'll tell you about unaccompanied minors. You've had fifty positions. You have interrupted fifty places and made a thousand hundred in six months!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u264	With what general numbers, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u265	Mr. Kumucaco, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u266	Please! We've made a thousand and we'll fix it and cover it for the next six months. What do you have to say? You've had three positions for a minor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u267	How many were in total?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u268	Get out and move your fingers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u269	Don't interrupt, please. Minister, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u270	Fifty children were two hundred.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u271	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u272	That's what you've done ten years to fix them. And you blame SYRIZA for making only nine hundred and fifty places in six months?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u273	Minister, with the couch of European money you have received...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u274	You're telling people...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u275	Same conditions as we've got today were they?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u276	People listen to us, and I think they understand us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u277	It's what we had.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u278	Please, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u279	We realize your irritation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u280	I'm not upset, gentlemen. I'm disappointed. You came here to make hot spots, not hospitality structures. Gentlemen, what do you say to the islanders?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u281	You swallowed the Buddour and attacked us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u282	All right, all right. What do you say to the islanders? You think they'll leave? The deal's over. Get out of here? Take a position clear. It is not enough to say 'in my view it is not overrun'. It's devastated. I come from Europe where we have spoken to everyone. It's devastated. He's leaving? You're not helping. You're cultivating an insecurity. You're cultivating a fear. You're causing this thing. I'll tell you later about your speeches.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u283	To go to other places, Minister. They should go to mainland Greece as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u284	It's forbidden, we'll tell you, under the deal. Find them with the leaders of your parties in Europe who do not allow us to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u285	Bring me the orders.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u286	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u287	I have analysed the provisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u288	Are you against this, Mr. Kumucaco, with the agreement?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u289	Did we sign the deal?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u290	Would you like us not to sign her? Take a seat. You say: 'We have signed a wrong agreement'. Did you have anything better? Take a position and say that "the government of SYRIZA poorly signed the agreement, the agreement, which from fifteen thousand to ten thousand a day has thrown them into a hundred". Can I talk to you, Mr. Kumucaco? You're expressing yourself wrong. You said we have a new increase in the last three days, three hundred and thirty people are here. That's it. Seventy and a hundred people a day come.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u291	Is that a little bit?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u292	It's a little bit, because five thousand and seven thousand came before the deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u293	You led the country to accept five thousand a day.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u294	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u295	Please. Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u296	You know, you're always interrupting me. I didn't interrupt any of you. But you can interrupt me. As far as the closed press is concerned, I told you before about the Almondsa. I told the House that Amygdaleza never closed down, that Amygdaleza was failing, because Amygdaleza had uprisings, such as the ones that had in Moria, and when we came as government, she was burned, and you know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u297	Who burned it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u298	And what I discussed with Mr. Dendias, Mr. Dendias was kind enough not to give him the dimension you're trying to give him. I didn't apologize to New Democracy. I apologise to Mr Dendia for a very specific event, which was and which Mr Denkias accepted and the story has gone through. It makes no sense from there, because, gentlemen, it is clear that we have disagreements. We have disagreements, because I'm afraid you have ideas. Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf, throughout Europe the army is dealing with refugees and immigrants, throughout the Member States of the European Union. Only here are you afraid the army will be destroyed? Do you have that little confidence in the army? Only here are you afraid we're gonna be Muslims? Do you have that little confidence in our national traditions and the power we have as a people? For Christ's sake! I mean, you don't take care anymore. I think things are getting out of hand. Mr Georgiadis, this man, in fact, is involved in the Scaramaga camp - we do not know whether or not it was his fault - in illegal trafficking in illegal immigrants. Of course you can use it: 'Look who they put'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u299	Did you really get him?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u300	Yeah, yeah, we got him. He had played a very active role, and he had helped us very much in Idomeni. But now look at something. What I'd like you to see and you understood is that at the same time as we put various, our services were above all, so that we can just find such things that might happen. Also, now I could tell you that the mayor in Mesolonghi was arrested. It doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u301	You forsake us?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u302	It doesn't make any sense. I'm telling you. We've got our eyes on top. And I'm telling you that not in the context of the fight we're doing, but in the context that we have a strong concern about security issues and we are very trying to be above. I believe that so far we have done it. You can't tell about the future how things will go, but our attention and our cooperation with Intelligence and the police are strengthening day after day. And I am presenting this to you outside the context of the previous fight, which will continue. Let me tell you now about Buddour's evidence. It doesn't make sense. You tell me that Mr Buddour said that in Norway it costs 12 000 and in Greece it costs 15,000. So, if he doesn't have a study behind him, which says what matters in Norway, what counts in Greece, there's no answer. This thing you can understand. We're all scientists in different sciences. In particular, can one answer them, but a general discussion of what costs Norway 12,000 and Greece 15,000, based on what evidence does that come from? That is where I say that you should have had a study, which says that the evidence that supports this is and, in my view, you should not use a structure that leads nowhere. This is the issue that one raised "the houses have 10 thousand, the others have 12 thousand". It's not true. International competitions are being opened and the NGOs are being proclaimed for these things. We have the agreement of Europe and we have the agreement of UNHCR. I explained to you before that is what it takes to make the conditions as better as possible. As I am going to submit data on subsidies last time. Let me tell you here this: there has been no special assignment. Not even one!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u303	Where does that come from?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u304	You guys will look for it. I'll tell you where it comes from.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u305	Bring us evidence, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u306	No, I won't bring you my innocence. You'll bring the guilt. We're not bringing in our innocence. And you know that thing. There are other times when someone had to prove their innocence. So I repeat that there was not a single delegation here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u307	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u308	It's worth studying, so next time we're a little more crowded. Here there is evidence of how many people entered these years before 2015. And you're really gonna wonder about me, where'd everyone go? How did you get along so well? Where did they go? What should I go out and tell Europe? That we did it? That they left? Where did they all leave? Mrs Christodoulou has opened the borders. How about you? Where did they leave? It's not in Greece. Here I have the correspondence showing the myth for 'SOFTEX'. Please read it. I'm completely honest. And, you know, everyone's name is very important to him, and I don't want there to be any shadow. So here I have all the operation of construction, how this myth was built. No competition has been opened, nothing has been done. I also have the answer from the non-governmental organization, which disguises what you ask, based on what Mr Buddour says. I will submit again data on the management of the refugee crisis, European Union-based money. Forgive me, but I will also testify to you the convictions that our country has suffered from the European Council for poor treatment of refugees and immigrants in the years of your own administration.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u309	It's what you mentioned. It's what you denounced.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u310	I will also testify to stop scaring the Greeks with the 'health bomb', evidence that every week in all camps we have health reports from epidemiologists, who prove that things are progressing safely and nothing happens accidentally. I will also submit information on how the construction was made for SOFTEX. The last one was for the houses. You should be looking for things before. I was available if you wanted. I will submit the Minutes from the debate that has taken place in ECHO on the houses that we have proposed for refugees and that have been accepted by ECHO. In addition, I will also testify to how UNHCR did it, and she accepts not this type of type, but as houses larger so that they can fit families with dignity. I will testify to the ministerial decisions which have taken over the entire period, which you say another opinion has not been carried out, they have already made progress and are moving on to the Ministry. Finally, there are two ways forward. I really need the second one. So we can be here and fight. I am not taking the right away from anyone to make an opposition. Besides, I don't have the power to do this. We would like the proposals to be specific. Today there has been no concrete proposal and no specific complaint except two. One is for VIAL - which is not true - and one for food where it will be answered. The data have been provided on several occasions. The General Accounting Office of the State has been filed twice. Every time you ask, we give it to you, but I think it would be better to move on in another way. Ladies and gentlemen, I will once again end by telling you that, in spite of all the difficulties, we will be able to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u311	Thank you, Minister. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Georgiadis, has the floor for a second reading.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u312	Mr President, Mr Kumucakos wanted the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u313	Mr President, I wanted to speak on personal grounds for one minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u314	What's personal, Mr. Kumucaco?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u315	Mr President, the Minister referred twice to my name for allegedly wrong questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u316	Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u317	Minister, the fact that Qualified Opposition exercises parliamentary control cannot make you feel irritated. This is a mistake, both institutional and political. We are doing our duty here and from the information we have in our hands, asking questions and making democratic control, transferring citizens' concerns. Do not confuse us for that, because that is what democracy is demanding. You have lodged a number of documents. Why didn't you testify to Mr. Buddour before he came out twice and caused you the problem, which you're almost apologizing for today? Why are you bringing all this information today and didn't your Secretary-General know about it? People ask. If he knew, you would obviously not be here today to answer our question. Isn't that right? Is it absurd what I'm saying? No, Minister, we have no advisability. There is no desire to create problems where there are no major issues. We control this with a sense of responsibility. We won't hurt you personally. There's nothing personal, but when the place does, what will the Opposition do to silence? Is that what you want? Hey, you won't have it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u318	Now I'm answering this? Or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u319	No, Minister. Mr Georgiadis will be seconded, and then you will, after all, have the possibility of tritology. Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u320	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'm starting with Mr. Buddour's. I'm going backwards from what you said, if we can reach agreement. I will read - to hear the Greek people too - what Buddour said about the houses and what you responded to earlier. "Mr. Buddouris accused Mr. Muzala of insisting on sixty-inch older and more expensive than the High Commissioner's specifications and expressed concerns about the procedures to be followed to obtain them by the Ministry. The High Authority has had houses of 8 times 3 metres costing about 8,000 euros, while the Minister prefers 8 houses by 3,60, which cost 10,000 to 12,000 euros. The High Commissioner has or has contracts with factories that can deliver them in a few weeks, while the latter will be delayed by creating pressure for direct assignment." That's what Mr. Buddour said. You told us that the High Commissioner approved your plan. But Mr. Buddour does not say the High Commissioner did not approve your plan. Mr Buddhour accuses you of choosing a bigger guy than the standard - to get to know each other - and that will create the need to direct delegation and thus opaque procedures. You come and tell us that the High Commissioner has approved it. In other words, you are answering something you have not been asked about. So I repeat the question: Is it true that what you're asking is not the standard standards of the High Commissioner and there are no ready contracts with factories to deliver them to you in a short time, so will you have to go directly? This is Mr Buddouris' question, not if the High Commissioner has approved it at your request.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u321	What's your position, Mr. Georgiadis?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u322	I am not Minister for Immigration Policy. If I become Minister of Migration Policy, I'll make a decision on this matter. I want to see if it is true that the Greek Minister is asking for a procedure outside the standard. If he asks, what's he asking for? How much more will that cost and what procedures? It's over. Anything else you answer to me has nothing to do with what we're talking about. But let's go to the most important issues too. You say in your denture: "We will open the closed-type centres that existed before SYRIZA arrived for the islands", to highlight the inconsistency of the New Democracy, which is now contrary to the closed-type centres. Obviously, that's what you said. You didn't say it all, though. You should say: "We will open the closed-ended centres that existed before SYRIZA arrived and where SYRIZA denounced them as Dahau, as a third world and as concentration camps". That's what you should say. Because 90% of Greece's complaints and convictions you brought here and filed, Minister - if you do not know, I will tell you - are complaints by SYRIZA officials who went to Europe and accused Greece. So what does SYRIZA Minister say now? It tells us: These closed-ended centres that were there before SYRIZA arrived and that SYRIZA denounced them as Dahow, now I will reopen them - that is, you, told us that these are Dachau and that are now fine doves and very nice centres - and why the New Democracy is inconsistent that now does not want what the New Democracy has?' So we can't figure it out. In your political hypocrisy we find no sign of it. Question No 2, by Mr Ephremidis You're accusing us of having a lesser number of positions. Here, Mr. Muzala, I really admire you in this. You've had a very calm look and now you've lost your temper a little bit. And if one does not know the subject, he can say: 'Wonderfully, man says it'. But this is where you're gonna get us all mad. I'm sorry, Mr. Muzala, do you know how many illegal entrances to Greece in 2014? Do you know the number?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u323	Seventy-two thousand.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u324	Seventy-two thousand. Do you know how many were in 2015?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u325	How many?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u326	Tell me the number. You know that? One and a half million. Question: Can you have the same number of posts and the same structures as a state, when you have a seventy-two thousand influx, and the same number, when you have one and a half million? The answer to what you are accusing us of is very simple, Mr Muzala. You have come - and I mean your government, not you personally - and Mrs Christodoulopoulos, who has the main responsibility, and you have opened the borders. How did you open them? Let's go to how you opened them now. You opened them up because the port stopped patrolling, as he did over the Samara government. You opened them up because, if you remember, Mr President, the night Mr Panosis was fought with the Brigadier and Mrs Christodoulopoulos, Mrs Christodoulopoulos gave a mandate as Ministry of Migration Policy that those who come to Greece for six months will have a legal residence permit. So you invited the other side to come here. And after you opened the border and all of them started coming here, then you tell us that you have more positions. But you have more positions because you have created a much larger flow and because of the greater flow, Europe gives you much more money. In fact, at seventy-two thousand, the two positions are far more than a thousand percent in a million and a half if you just know math. I say it because in the end you'll drive us crazy. So when you talk, as I told you in my prototype, I want you to be serious as you show. Say an apology that you said Dachau's closed-ended centers. Go back to your parliamentary group and say that "Yes and SYRIZA exaggerated as opposition and closed-end centres were necessary". Apologise to the opposition for what you were saying, so that we can once come to an understanding. We didn't have a fight. I take the third example. The new Republic's rapporteur tells you in his prology about the Kurd case. What's your answer to your prototype? "But now he's written it the "PRODUCT"". Yes, sir. I'll be right back. What was the answer to your dentistry? "Yes, it was true." Question: Why was that 'Yes, was it true' that you said in your dentistry you did not say so in your protology? Why did you get involved in the "CORDER"? What's the point? To impress? Next time the Prime Minister, when New Democracy President Kyriakos Mitsotakis took out the paper with the auctions, said: "It writes the first theme". And the original post was from "THEMERICA OF THE CONSTITUTION". Is that how we're going to have a debate in the House? Yes, well, I also take political responsibility - I consider it brave as you did - that a man you chose in Scaramaga was arrested for trafficking in illegal immigrants. Is that a small matter? Shouldn't the opposition show it? You're saying you're watching it. I didn't say you were smuggling illegal immigrants to God. But I said that one of your partners, whom you put in a critical position, was arrested for this thing. Shouldn't the opposition show it up, Minister? Shouldn't we ask you? So why are you blaming us? And I close with a personal remark to my friend Mr Katsothotis, because I heard before what you said to me. I don't like it at all, Mr. Colleague, to twist my words. I, in my speech in Chios, did not tell Greece to ban or close in prison anyone who believes in communism. I said that in a number of Eastern countries this type of practice applies, because they remember the time when they had communism and have very bad memories of it. This is a historical type of conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u327	Because there the Nazis are in the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u328	I, in order to get to know each other, believe in liberal urban democracy and like everyone to express their political views freely, and you too. What differentiates both of us is that if you ever ruled and come communism, we would not be allowed to speak, because communism is a party without a parliament. We are a liberal party and we want a parliament with many parties, and with you inside. Where I have wronged you, possibly, and this is what I want to correct, it is where you have taken it as a match with SYRIZA. Well, we'll make it clear. In SYRIZA, in fact, most of its members come from the JRC. Mr Drasakis almost became Secretary-General of the JRC. Mr. Tsipras was in the CNN. I'm telling you this so we can get to know each other. But, indeed, to speak Marxistically now, they are not communists, such as you who are pure communists and consistent opportunists, to speak with the Marxist ideology. The fact that they are opportunists makes them even more dangerous. Do you know why? Because, since they are stalkers, to take power and to keep power, they have no barriers, no political nor ideological ones. That's the difference with you. You are normal communists and, in this sense, not only my political opponents, but also my ideological opponents, because I believe in liberal urban democracy. These are opportunists, they go where the wind blows to get the chair. That's the difference. If I've suited you in any way, badly, I didn't have that intention. You're another thing you guys, another thing they do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u329	You're judging the odds!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u330	But, to get to know each other, my statement has nothing to do with what we are going to do in Greece. In Greece we will do what we do, which Constantine Karamanlis re-established after the junta, a liberal urban democracy that everyone can express an opinion, even you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u331	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u332	You have the floor, Mr Kattotis, on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u333	I am sorry, but I cannot now answer an issue that has been said by the Vice-President of the New Democracy. First of all, Karamanlis didn't legalized us, we were legalized by the communists' struggles tens of years ago before Karamanlis. They do not imprison communists who in these countries, but governments that are far-right, praise Hitler and generally the Nazi ideology. So those who serve capital today and the monopolistic groups do not want these parties, which serve the workers and their own needs, who, if you like, serve this fight for their own power. That is why they are being chased, as the Communists in our country were chasing them with prisons and exiles and with what our people have experienced, know them very well. The communists here have won what we call 'free action'. It does not give it to anyone that freedom of action. Of course, we're rivals. We want power of another kind, another kind of economy, which really serves people's needs and not profit. Of course, you have a different perception. There may be many parties, but, as we have said many times, it can in many respects serve the same strategy, namely satisfying the needs of big capital. We're on the other side.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u334	Thank you, Mr Katsotis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u335	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u336	Not provided. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u337	He called us haunters. Excuse me, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u338	We're in the close. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u339	Mr President, please don't mess it up for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u340	Minister, will you three-way?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u341	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u342	He called us desistors and you are not giving us the floor, Mr President. I note that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u343	Listen. First of all, it's not personal. Secondly, there is a government representative who can answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u344	He called us the political chasemen. Looks like you're enjoying the characterization. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u345	It's not personal. Please. Please. Mr. Muzalas is here and, if he wants, he can speak. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u346	So Mr Musala, by the way, clearly says that SYRIZA has proved that they are not major persecutors and that we are moving forward now. I wanted to say to the JRC Member that he does not regard the lack of respect that I did not respond to what he said. Look at something. In most of your findings, I agree with you. There is, however, a fundamental difference in the fact that we have to make decisions in real time, that is to say, yesterday. That's where we disagree. Our disagreements are important, but they are legitimate. Mr. Georgiadis and Mr. Kumucako, no sense of staff or anything like that. For Kurds, I told you, I did not understand that with the "PRODUCTION". I'm telling you. I didn't avoid anything. After all, it is well known that I often speak truths here, which create another sense. For the houses - and I would ask you to close it - we asked the DG EKO for bigger houses than they existed. In other words, they already had a UNHCR contract for these houses so that we could create better conditions. This entered the negotiating table and when I tell you that it was accepted, I say to tell you that we were right to ask for bigger houses. The price difference I don't know, the orders we don't make, the contests we don't publish them. I hope I covered you in this thing, because it's very important to me personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u347	I'm sorry, who published it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u348	The organization, which will take it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u349	NGO.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u350	NGO, with an international competition. And there are hundreds of companies that do whatever houses you want. Just as well one could, you know, reverse this. And to say that the one who wants to detain this kind of house well has something suspicious. That's not true either. It's the way they worked so far. We want to adapt this to our own conditions that are European. Let me tell you about the closed-ended centers. I have never concealed from this House that closed-ended centres were working. And Immigration without closed-ended centres can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u351	Why don't you tell them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u352	But let me tell you - and this can create friction again - that a closed-ended centre can be Dachau and a closed-type centre may not be Dachau. This is something left to see what it was, how it happened and all that stuff. For the structures you make a mistake. The one million that came in and went through here, was leaving within three or four days, in more official ways than those who used to leave before, and you did - that we didn't see them. We started thinking about structures when they closed the border when we saw they were closing the border. I - you must remember that - I had come out and said to TV and said to the House that, with the illegal closure of our borders, we were stolen a month and a half from which we could have started creating the structures. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] We have had to create them as quickly as we can, they are not bad, but they are not good, we make them better and we move forward. And in that, I think, you have no particular objection. You'd like it to be better, and we'd like it. We're doing a very hard job on this. Do not say again - it is irresponsible - 'we have opened the border', do not say 'The Port did not do patrols' again, do not say it again. They may be said after other things. It's not good for the place. The Harbor was patrolling. We didn't open the border. We have not come out to say 'Come on.' He didn't drop Aleppo because SYRIZA came! They didn't cut the piles in Turkey and the schools for refugees in Turkey closed because SYRIZA came out! That is when I say that it will be good to make criticisms, clearly you have the right to make criticisms, we have the right to'require' proposals. We do not see the proposals, rather than in a general form, while the day-to-day thing is running and there we need them. I'm stopping here and thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u353	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The debate on the number 1/1/4-10-2016 topical question to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the official complaints and shadows in the management of the refugee is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-24-S1-commons.u354	With the consent of the House at 22.09 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday, 25 October, at 16.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's legislative work: according to the agenda that has been distributed to you.
