ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS Before entering the debate, however, I am recognizing a transferee from the Government Secretariat. "We hereby inform you that regarding the debate on topical questions within the framework of the parliamentary control on Monday 19 September 2016, it becomes impossible: (a) the Minister of Finance, Mr. Euklidis Tsakalotou, as he will be meeting with the representatives of the institutions, (b) the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, as he will also be meeting with the representatives of the institutions, (c) the Deputy Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction Mr. Nikolaos Toska, due to unreported obligations, (d) the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Amatidis, after consulting the Minister and the Member, (e) the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Panayiotis Kouroublis, due to unreported obligations, (f) the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Security, (e) the Minister of Home Affairs and Reconstruction, Mr. The other topical questions will be answered in good time.’ The first question under number 1261/13-9-2016 of the New Democracy MP, George Stylios, will be discussed with the Minister of Finance, on the financial problems faced by suppliers of MARINOPOULOS. Mr. Style, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I put this question because last July - on 13 July, in fact - I had tabled a paper simple question on the subject of the MARINOPOULOS company and in particular the suppliers of MARINOPOULOS. A large number of suppliers exist in relation to this company throughout Greece. A large number of suppliers exist both in Epirus and in my special country of Arta. You are well aware, Minister, that the specific suppliers I am referring to are the small and medium-sized suppliers, who supply their products to limited customers and several of them exclusively supplied their products to MARINOPOULOS. They are therefore companies such as: cheese shops, fishermen, transporters for all sectors and, above all, companies, packages of the primary sector. MARINOPOULOS was introduced into Article 99. One of the problems is as follows: Suppliers have issued invoices, which remain unpaid, because this company does not pay them or have issued post-paid checks. In fact, for the invoices they have issued, they have paid the corresponding VAT. So this is a very big problem: will they be taxed on those invoices they have issued? Because you know too, I know it, and everyone knows it, and in this country that they are not paid, and they are probably not going to be paid unless there is an initiative from you. So I ask you, do you intend to take action in order to facilitate suppliers who provided services to MARINOPOULOS? If yes, what are these actions and what do they include?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u3	Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. You raise a point on which I have already answered this question in the House, and you are quite right to highlight the issue of the particular area of your prefecture and of small and medium-sized enterprises. What I want to say is that the government's criterion of what it has done so far for this company is how the jobs of workers in the MARINOPOULO Group will be secured, how the suppliers of the company will be secured and how there will not be a huge problem in the market, because if this whole thing is not sorted out, there will be a huge problem in the market. Already the moves that have been made - the government is dealing with this issue very successfully by the Minister, Mr Flavouraris - have led us to a situation where, as the suppliers appear, 100% of what the company owes them, from a limit and over a large proportion of debts will be paid. I don't have an accurate picture. In the next few days, I think these issues will be finalised. With regard to the tax issue, I have to tell you that both VAT and income tax are specific provisions, which I will tell you, which are not due to the legislative initiatives that we have taken, are legislative provisions, which existed before our Government. On the basis of these provisions, therefore, as regards VAT, it is provided for under Article 19 of the VAT Code, a reduction in the taxable value in the event of a total or partial non-payment of the price on the basis of a specific opinion of the Legal Council of State, which was accepted unanimously and which provides that only in cases where the undertaking is subject to the special winding-up procedure referred to in Article 106, there may be a reduction rather than in the resolution procedure referred to in Article 99. So we, too, expect legal developments in this matter to proceed with the implementation of the VAT of alpha or beta provision. With regard to the issues of income taxation under the applicable provisions, i.e. by L.4172/2013, it is foreseen that the time for the acquisition of the income is considered to be the time given to the document, regardless of whether it was paid or not. I understand - what you're about to say - that this gives rise to an injustice. This, unfortunately, is the tax system. As far as this company is concerned, we also expect judicial and business initiatives and other initiatives to be finalised so that the government will then come with specific legislation and deal with the issues of the company's debts - because there are many debts to the public of about 150 million - and to deal with the debts to the supply companies. Because there are too many businesses and many workers who, if they are not paid by the Marinopoulos Group or by the group that has succeeded in these obligations, will also be in bankruptcy, disaster or other situations. I would like to assure you, therefore, that the government is doing everything possible. He is following this and once we are ready, we will bring legislation to protect these businesses.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u5	Mr. George Stylos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would like to point out that the economic situation in the country is not good. Despite the government's announcements, the reality is quite different. Enterprises every day try to meet their many and heavy obligations both to the state and to the market, where there is a reduced demand, so that their products can be promoted. So the environment in which businesses are called upon to survive is not good. I refer to and draw attention to small and medium-sized enterprises, because that is where the heart of the Greek economy is beating. The backbone of the Greek economy is small and medium-sized enterprises. I say this, which I take as your commitment, and I want you to clarify it to me: you said that in the negotiations that are taking place, you will put a limit down. I would therefore ask you to go to a limit below, in order to protect small and medium-sized enterprises and not those who can cope with liquidity, having stocks, having funds, or being able to borrow from the banks, if - I say again - in relation to VAT and income tax, the legislation that exists today leaves these suppliers uncovered. So I tell you that we must hurry, we must run quickly, because they cannot afford to secure a small liquidity from the bank. They're waiting for an initiative from the government, from the political leadership. We, as a New Democracy, want you to know that this matter will be monitored and closely monitored and we will be very strict judges to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u7	The reason is the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Tree Alexiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u8	The criticism always helps us, Mr Papoutsis. Our criticism always makes us better and we are neither afraid of criticism nor of proposals. I will also submit to you the relevant documents given to me by the relevant directorates, so that you can have a more complete picture. I would like to agree with you on the issue of small and medium-sized enterprises. Small and medium-sized enterprises have suffered a huge blow all these years since the economic crisis - not to open up a debate on the causes and situations - and we do not want to burden them and create problems. We want to do everything possible to help them. Unfortunately, we are bound, unfortunately, by the specific legal framework that we have and we are bound by, and by the specific budgetary situation that we are. I wish we could do much more. I would point out, however, that in relation to VAT and income, there are specific provisions. The government has not signed or imposed any agreement on what will become business. Businesses are talking to each other. We want to help, but we expect developments to be finalised at legal and business level, and then, of course, we will come by provision and deal with the company's debts, to see how this whole agreement will be ensured and how to deal with the issues of VAT and income for these businesses. We expect, however, that we too have a full picture, precisely what needs to be done. Make sure we give the best solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u9	The seventh question will be discussed under number 1222/5-9-2016, the second question of the Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, concerning the unjustified dismissal of the frog-management unit from Agios Kosmas. Mr. Panayotarus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister, after and, as everything shows, the upcoming selling out of Greek this week, the Submarine Missions Unit, which has its seat in Agios Kosmas, as it is called in the adjacent to LAMDA DEVELOPMENT, must be unravelled, and at the same time the Greek state has not taken care of at all, where this relocation will take place. In a previous question I had asked the previous government on the same subject, the Minister responsible then promised and said that this unit is not going to leave, stay without a roof, and that everything will be done properly. The years have passed, from what things seem to be happening very quickly, and the Submarine Mission Unit, this unit you are using for your personal security, as well as many Prime Ministers and other Ministers, does not know where it will dawn after the agreement with LAMDA DEVELOPMENT. I think you are aware of this issue, Minister, and we would like your answer, about what is missing from the relocation of the Port Authority Submarine Missions Unit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. The main answer to your question gives you the article 7 of Law 4081/2012. You will allow me, Mr President, to present this article briefly, but the honourable Member, as well as the House, must be informed, because that is exactly what gives the basis for the answer to the question. It says in Article 7 of Law 4081/2012: ‘In paragraph 1 of Article 7 of Law 4062/2012, the following indent is added: ‘Subsequently to the property located at the National Sports Centre for Youth (ESCN) with its buildings and other facilities, the general annexes and components of the total area of 9,360,95 square meters, shall be determined as follows and shall be indicated by the ABD...CHAPOSA (Annex 2) with a date of June 2011 and a scale of 1:500, considered by the Head of the Technical Services and Housing Department of the Ministry of Finance, and of which a copy shall be published in the Official Journal of the Government, used by the Submarine Missions Unit of the Port Authority of the Greek Coast Guard, the TEA is required to discover and grant to the Ministry of Shipping and the Aegean Ministry of the Aegean, at least that objective of the Hellenic Republic, which is at least as far as it may be. The costs of the construction of new installations are borne by the GOI and their completion precedes the release of the space by the Port Body.’ That's what the law says. We didn't vote for him. The previous government has voted for him, and in that respect we have no criticism of this regulation. This is not enough, of course, because we have a road ahead of us, but, of course, it does not mean and there is no eviction, and neither can there be any extermination from both the law and the concession agreement itself. The House will see all these issues tomorrow and vote accordingly. It is a contract that - you as you described it - will be judged by the plenary. In any case, what is now being voted on in this House is quite different from what we have received as a government, with very significant improvements and interventions and very important safeguards. However, this will be discussed by the House. In any case, then, there is no eviction. In my second speech, I shall refer also to the further steps already planned for the completion of this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Panayotarus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we are sure that it will somehow take care of the Greek state in order to make this relocation. The point is when and when. Because they are close to ninety families who run the Submarine Mission Units. They must therefore learn - and not at the last minute - where their new seat will be, their new place of work. Very important, too, is that the GOI speaks of land, not buildings. You said, of course, that it would make sure that new buildings were built. Will they be young? Will it be an area with perhaps some toll in it and they will say, 'Here are we doing what the contract says?' Or is there going to be a building, if anything, in addition to the existing one? Because the existing one - if you know and I imagine that you have been informed - needs improvements. Everything is evolving so the Submarine Missions Unit - one of the best in the world - is evolving and has new needs. It is a chance that this change will take place in the right way. The responsible officials who are members of the Submarine Mission Unit must have the first reason for how this relocation will take place, how these buildings will be built, whether they are, together with the premises and vessels of the Port Authority - because at the moment as you know very well, otherwise the Headquarters and elsewhere are ships - and whether things will be better operational than they are now. Because the events in the Aegean Sea, and what is happening in the Southeast Mediterranean, require that the Submarine Missions Unit be fully ready 24 hours a day and of course its executives do not accept another blow following the economic blows - which happened to all the other Greeks - and to dawn a better tomorrow for them. I'm going to make a little comment on what you said. You described the Greek sale agreement in all appearances and in all respects, regardless of whether - you support - some improvements have been made. Also, the fact that this agreement will probably pass by 270 votes will honor you or not? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u15	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u16	What I can assure you and the Prime Minister can confirm is that we are not selling. And that won't be a sale either. You know the course of things very well. The Greek people know it. It was called in the September 2015 elections just to give its opinion and to ratify by its vote whether after the 2015 agreement was signed - in which privatisations were legally included, and only those that had begun - will this government continue. And this is the binding responsibility of the current government following the appeal to the People's verdict in September 2015. However, we will see them on Wednesday that the House will discuss them. I would like to say to you, without any wish to raise you, that of all the allegations and in writing and orally you are making, indeed the only claim that is correct is that the Submarine Mission Unit is a worthy unit and with high operational authority and preparedness and is ready to respond to very serious missions. That's true. The rest is already outdated and regulated. And the unit's executives are up-to-date. Okay, I haven't sent them a letter, but at every opportunity, the Headquarters and the Ministry have made sure they've been informed about the course of things. So I say, and I will not talk about our own government - from the previous government, and this has been regulated in a series of service procedures, which make no sense in detail, both the General Staff of Navy and the Ministry of Shipping and the Ministry of Islands Policy and other departments, and has already chosen a space of thirty-five acres in the Scaramaga naval fortress, which has been granted free of charge by the Navy General Staff. So that's where it's relocated. With regard to who will bear the cost not only of relocation but - explicitly and agreedly - of building and setting up a new modern unit, which will be much more upgraded than today's unit, you yourself said that this unit is using other spaces adjacent to the wider space of Agios Cosmas, because it is precisely the limited space of its own facilities that is not sufficient for exercises and use of floating spaces, etc. It is therefore not just a question of relocation and transfer, but of building new models of modern facilities. These couldn't start earlier. They will start now when this process is completed, because otherwise there was no reason, when the process is not certain, to start earlier. All the preparatory phases, however, have also been in terms of funding, both in terms of time and in terms of the main initial studies of what kind of facilities will take place. From now on, there is, I can assure you, the time, in accordance with the concession agreement that the House will be invited to vote on Wednesday, there is sufficient time to make this whole process. In any case, there is no law, but there is no contract case of extermination. From this point of view, the Ministry has provided and prepared the interdisciplinary and interdepartmental working group, which will work immediately the next day, to run them. With a ministerial decision this has been done in the previous period, and all the preparatory measures, I tell you again, have been taken. Now there will be just speeding up and launching, because now it is a mature reality to do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u17	Thank you. Before going to the third question for the day, we have already said that, following Mr Amanatidis' consultation with the Member of the Union of Centrals Mr.Ioannis Saridis, the fifth question under number 1220/5-9-2016 will not be discussed with a timely second question from the Member of Parliament, Mr. Ioannis Saridis, on passport visas with the words "Macedonia". Also, in the absence of Mr Katrugalos abroad, the third question under number 1265/13-9-2016 will not be discussed at the time of the first question by the Member of Parliament of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the reopening of the GP and standardisation of the Union of Agricultural Cooperatives (ESA) Argolidas "Esperides". But now we will discuss the eighth under No 1225/6-9-2016 topical question of the second question by the MP of Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, about the possibility of reintegrating into the regulation of the percentage of doses for all those who lost it and regardless of reason. Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. It is an issue that we have discussed here in this House before, but there are developments. The question of reintegrating into the setting of the hundreds of doses for some categories that lose it with the corresponding justification seems to be working. What is needed is to simplify the procedure and not so much research is needed for the reasons, but if it pays the corresponding charges, it can be automatically reintroduced, regardless of the reason. The second and most important issue, however, concerns those with late payment, who have not been included in the regulation at all and who want to join it now. They're asking if there's gonna be such an opportunity. Of course, things have changed and the problem can be dealt with, according to the Prime Minister's announcements from IDU. The Prime Minister said that the outstanding debts until 31-12-2016 to the OAU and the Self-employed Fund are 'freezed', since of course the current contributions are paid. We want some clarification, Minister, because this may be the solution and you do not need to answer the question of integration into a new sustainable rate regulation. What does the Prime Minister mean as arrears? Since when will this apply? Why is the OGA not part of this process only the OAU and the EAFRD? And as we arrive at the end of the month, I would say that it is very important to make it clear whether it is also about those who, for various reasons, will stop paying for the arrangement at the end of the month, that is to say if they are also part of this option of 'freezing'. Because, if they do not join, there must be the appropriate information to ensure that they do not lose the regulation. It will be very useful, in other words, to answer these issues in detail. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u19	Thank you. The State Secretary, Mr Petropoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President, my colleague. In May we had this debate again, and I said that every reference to the old arrangements often causes temptation to some who are aware and pay their debts positively and things are very convenient, to think about stopping paying these doses. I said then that it would be criminal if they did, because they would lose the benefits of those arrangements up to a hundred instalments, which would be up to 100% of the increase and fine-free. I would like to say this again: do not think that certain insured persons would stop serving their debts, which had been subjected to such doses, because they would not benefit them from such a decision and lose all the benefits they had. Of course, after that answer, your questioner's part with regard to those who are already regulated and what happens if they stop paying has been answered. It's not even, and it shouldn't even be in these people's minds. As far as the Prime Minister's announcements are concerned, the Prime Minister said something that really is a vital solution for us in the area of insured professionals, who are insured in the EBRD, in which he actually accounts for much of the debts, most of the social security debts to the same system that every month has to pay pensions. It is a decision that will actually lead to a better return to the funds, because we will be able to get back too many people insured in information, and that is the purpose of the Prime Minister's announcement. The details, as we have said, are details that we are working on to implement this announcement. In detail, Mr Kegeroglu, after completing their processing, we will give them for the use of our insured.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, listen, I want to close today with a political commitment, a commitment that will give a breath to hundreds of thousands of small and medium-sized free professionals, who are struggling under the burden of debts, with the satisfaction of a permanent request from this sector. The insurance contributions of the free professionals and the self-employed in OSCE and the EFF, which become due up to 31-12-2016, also include future dues - "frozen", without, of course, being deleted, so that they can be insurance-related information if they are consistent with their current debts. And it explains below that from 1-1-2017 we will have a new system, etc. This is the Prime Minister's statement. What does the Prime Minister's statement say? All dues and dues which will become due until 31-12-2016 ‘frozen’. They have no problem with the old debts of the self-employed and the self-employed, as long as they pay for the current debts. It is quite different from what you said to me, with which we would agree, to urge. It is quite different what you said, that "you have the regulation, don't lose it, even if you're rooted". That is what you said: 'Even if you root, don't lose it, because it won't.' That's what you told us. We want you to make that clear to us, Minister. If you can't today, I really don't pressure you. However, it must be done at some point and by the end of the month that it is intended to pay the dose, because there is a huge risk that the misunderstandings that due to late debts - due to weakness, not due to feasibility - will not be able to close the dose at the end of the month to pay it. Will this weakness include those who will freeze or be to those who lose, as you have called it? So this is a crucial issue and I want you to answer with what logic has the delayed insurance contributions to the OGA been excluded? Self-employed are farmers, they are freelance professionals. Essentially all these small businessmen are the same category. Why this distinction, why this exclusion for farmers? Minister, I will present the Prime Minister's speech to you in the Minutes, as he has said, so that you do not think that I have said some extra things from what the Prime Minister said and, of course, stay in the Minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, too. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Kegeroglu, there's nothing different than the Prime Minister of the country has announced. I said that whoever has made adjustments up to a hundred doses has benefits that have no meaning to talk about. Because people are misled by many articles - and that is why I said what I said - and he is thinking of stopping from serving his regulations, while he has received a full discount for his old debts on interest, fines, charges. In this respect, then, it is a question of soundness that no one chooses to throw all these benefits away. The Prime Minister did not say, nor did he urge anyone to stop paying the instalments. Of course this proclamation applies in full. It does not make any sense, however, to those people who are already in the arrangements. Obviously, all dues created until 31 December 2016 will be incorporated into the relevant regulations, which, as I said before and repeat, we are working on the details. These are things that we have not set right now. The Prime Minister made a mature announcement. It is something that we have been working on for some time now. And in May I told you that we were looking - if you see my answer of May - to find ways of paying their debts to the insured. I did not go into details, but they are things we have to do in the most effective way. There is therefore no contradiction in relation to what I said and what the Prime Minister announced. After all, you will notice that to date all our own care was to be able to keep the insured in the social security system. That is why with my own circular since February 2016 I explained to the CRL that it is not considered a new levy to impose a fine for other reasons and not to meet with the debt to the insured. We have also done other things in the meantime, such as reintroducing those who have lost regulations for reasons of inappropriateness of their own. We have done so and our initiative has been announced on several occasions. Of course, I said that the new way of calculating contributions in relation to net income would lead to a very large reduction in the insubstantial categorisation of charges that do not correspond either to the current reality or to the financial potential of the insured and would bring a real, serious possibility in this world to pay old debts. This whole picture will be seen when we're done processing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u25	What about the OGA?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u26	You're right, I didn't answer you for the OGA. OGA is the case of a gradual adjustment of contributions. It's not the same thing as the other cases. We will have within this transition the corresponding processes that we have to do for farmers. However, this will be done in a long time for farmers. It's not the same. We may be able to have treatments for them too until time is over, but it is not something I can tell you at the moment in a binding manner.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u27	Yes, sir. We have already referred to a coma from the Interior Minister, which is why Mr Javarra's question has not been answered. Therefore, the first question under number 1260/13-9-2016 of the First Cycle of the New Democracy MP Mr. Konstantinos Javara to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the declaration as the theocratic multiplier of the Municipalities of Andra and Pineion and the adoption of measures to compensate the affected citizens, will not be debated as a result of an impediment by the Minister. Also, the second question under number 1253/12-9-2016, first question by Evia MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Michou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the "displacement of 36,769 Greek children from the nurseries, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. Series is the ninth under number 1231/6-9-2016 topical question of the F Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the drastic reduction of disabled pensions and allowances of HEIs. Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. The results of the policy and the present government as a follow-up, of course, to the policy of the previous governments, Mr President, are the same people with disabilities as the families of the disabled and those with the drastic reduction in disability pensions and allowances. To this end, a basic mechanism is essentially the centres of disability certification, known CEPDs, where the drastic reduction in disability rates results in thousands of disabled but also in time in which disability pensions are reduced and reduced. In particular, more than seventy thousand seriously disabled were left without an allowance since of the two hundred twelve thousand who received an allowance in March 2012, they are now under a hundred and fifty thousand. At the same time, and according to experts' estimates, the heavy disabled in our country are over five hundred thousand, while the disabled with an average disability rate do not actually have any support. In fact, an event that is coming to worsen even further the already dramatic situation is the latest area taken by the refusal to provide services of the municipalities, on the basis of the Ministry's guidelines, not to award allowances to the severely disabled persons of the OAU. Thousands of disabled and chronic sufferers are therefore forced to undertake poorly and also to stop their treatments because they cannot pay for increased participation or even fully pay for the health necessary. Therefore, the questions to the Minister, Mr President, are whether he will respond to the acute needs of disabled people in order to return pensions, benefits to pre-cutting levels for disabled people, but also to family members, and whether measures will be taken to support the unemployed people with full support. It is notable that 95% of disabled people, disabled persons, who have the potential, have no access to work and no opportunity to work.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u29	Good, give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u30	The second is that no further reductions should be made to disability benefits and pensions, but also to the disabled, who have long been suffering regardless of the rate of disability to have absolutely free medical treatment, technological aids, health materials, etc. Thirdly, to extend the above benefits to categories of people with disabilities, such as deaf people who are not recognised, but are suffering from old dementia, Alzheimer's disease and multiple sclerosis. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. I wonder, after the previous question, if the one you did, Mr. Lambroulis, feeds up papers again that we are cutting off the wheelchairs. You don't have that intention. It is simply time for everyone who wants to play with the social security system, because it gives matter to a lot of people, because it is a sensitive issue, to buy leaves from the kiosks. I have been thinking about this and I am thus starting my speech because, in fact, we have repeatedly stated that disability pensions have in no way been reduced. I have said that exactly the quotas and procedures laid down since 1951 have been in force since IKA. This Regulation shall apply. In fact, in Law No.4387, we expressly state that even for the calculation of EUR 1,300 in the sum of basic and supplementary pensions as a limit of protection, there is no consideration of the pre-tax benefits. We also say that there is no possibility of any pension income being cut, even if there is a disabled child in the family. There is therefore a number of explicit references to the law, which do not justify such a reservation or a relevant question as to what is going on with supplementary pensions. It is up to us to regulate in a uniform way the relevant provisions relating to supplementary pensions, because public-sector employees, public-law legal persons or different categories of insurance in the private sector have had different provisions on the treatment of disability. A Committee has been set up with the participation of representatives of the Higher Confederation of Disabled Persons, which examines the homogenisation of the terms of invalidity insurance, always based on the protection of persons with disabilities. And it seems that our aim is to protect people with disabilities. We are already saying, under the provisions of Law No.4387, that people with a severe disability of over 80%, who fall under the provisions of Law 612 should not in any way be cut or adjusted and that they should receive temporary pensions and one-off pensions. We are not counting on the income criteria for the ESS - we have said this before - and it has already been supplemented since 8 September, whichever cut was available for people with a disability of 80% or more. And, as I have said before, for the EUR 3,300 limit, we take into account the case that there is a disability for some of these people in the family. Our concept is therefore a concept of protection for people with disabilities. You will see that the effect of all this work will be to protect these people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Look, the Minister's approach is on the basis of the current CEDEFOP regulation, i.e. the CEDEFOP. You know very well, if I'm not mistaken, that for three years, four years has changed this regulation, resulting in the IKA for example - these data I mentioned earlier are indicative - of the 14% for disability pensions and benefits of beneficiaries falling to 7%, 50% wholesale. This was because the disability rates were adjusted. Of course, what you're saying runs into the law, but if you have 80% disability on top of it. See now and I'll submit it in the Minutes to get to know: A woman of seventy-eight years with a disability of 81%, a pension of 310 euros and cut her off. It is the request - an objection to the relevant committees, the institutions - to re-subsidise the EVS with what this implies, with EUR 310. But even with the ESS I don't think she could respond to issues relating to her disability, medical coverage, etc. It is an indicative example. That's all there is to it. You have not answered and I am waiting for the denology of what is going on in the question, and I have also developed it in my prototype, as far as the municipalities are concerned, that is to say, to deal with the services of the municipalities and, if there is indeed a direction, a mandate - as you say - from the Ministry itself, from the government, if you wish, that is to say, the insured of the OAU. See now, the benefits are not so that these people, people with disabilities, can live. It was established, regardless of when and how, in order to be an ancillary amount to their pension, which will be complementary to the pension in order to meet the increased needs due to their disability. That was the right thing to do. What do we say? I have developed them in both questions and you have read them. It will ensure that the state returns to its level at least - we say - before a crisis, because we put them on a number of issues about wages, pensions, etc. And with any draft law we've tabled? Will they come back to these levels, or will they be in this dramatic, tragic situation, which the majority of our people are, of course, experiencing, but even more, families and people with disabilities themselves? In view of this situation and the development of the situation, there is another fact, which, of course, rightly fills with insecurity - but is also a revolt and I think it is in the Ministry's knowledge - the families of the disabled, the announcements from the Ministry of the new institutional framework for disabled pensions and allowances, perhaps by the end of the year as has been said. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] It is justified to revive much more in the area of families and SMEs, because it has been well known with publications in our country and abroad, which have not been denied by the Government, by the Ministry, on the decommissioning of the State and the insurance funds from the responsibility for the award of disability pensions. On the basis of the plan, disability pensions will be provided by private insurance companies following special insurance contracts signed by employees with employers. We know that, and you know that, you are simply following this policy in this area, which, of course, is moving within the framework and directions of the European Union, but also through the implementation of the OECD's proposals for Greece, concerning the drastic reduction of disabled pensions and allowances, through their connection to the lowest guaranteed income, the assets as well as the so-called functionality of the disabled. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing again and again.]] I come back and close and thank you, Mr President, and apologise for the abuse of time. See now: The sclerosis, to have these benefits you mentioned in your prototype, Minister, must have 80% disability. However, if the patient goes by plaque walking, for example, because at the time, his health problem is in recession, due to his treatment, they will give him 50% disability and lose all or part of the benefits from the benefits, etc., from whatever.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u35	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u36	I mean, the other guy in the wheelchair - I know these things very well, because I'm a doctor - should be, in other words, in a phase of exacerbation of his problem and wait for the committee to give him those percentages. So this is an important issue. Besides, of course, the policy you're following...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u37	You're clear, Mr. Lambroulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u38	...it is important to tell us what will happen with the CSR and with the degrees of disability, and if the Government, the Ministry, if you will, carry out new revisions to these regulations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u39	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u40	As a doctor, Mr. Lambroulis, you will agree with me, that I am not a doctor, that people suffering from this disease, hardening by plate, are not disabled. People suffering from this disease are not disabled in any case. It may be a small degree of the condition.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u41	What does the term 'disabled' mean, Minister? What does "healthy" mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u42	I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u43	Tell us about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u44	I consider every man who suffers as a man of potential rights. So our care should be...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u45	Yeah, but you're depriving them of these rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u46	Let me tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u47	You're welcome, Mr. Lambroulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u48	I was surprised to hear you say 'plaining'. With multiple sclerosis, I know too many people...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u49	I know, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u50	...which are very healthy, otherwise, to provide work, to work properly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u51	I'm sorry, Mr. President. Let the Minister not be mentioned because he does not know, not because he is not a doctor. He doesn't know what's going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u52	It is in the judgment of everything that the Minister says and what you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u53	Good. The CSDPs judge the extent of someone's inability to work - that's what they judge - and the condition and the size of the condition. That's why he has quotas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u54	They shall determine the degree of disability based on the mobility of the disabled to the disease concerned. That's why I told you. If the other one comes with a wheelchair in the KEPA, they will give him an 80% disability rate in the exacerbation of the condition. That's what's going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Lambroulis, you were clear. Let the Minister answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Lambroulis, I thought you'd agree on the need for every person to treat him as a decent person who has a rightful ability. In this sense I said that I do not consider anyone suffering from a disease that is absolutely impossible to provide for his social life and his economic activity. The CSDPs shall determine the size of this possibility. I can't get into the details of how the CPS works. From my point of view, however, it is something that concerns me to see how it works, how the CEDEFOP doctor really meets his obligations, and we need to see it, because it has many aspects of this side. We need to expand the number of forty-three diseases, which have been defined as what it is to prevent anyone from returning to the examination process. We need to expand them. I note that diseases are lacking and there is no point, since these exist, in driving the insured person, the person being examined, from the CSR again to the committee. We need to broaden this. I have said that and it is something we are doing in this process. You will therefore agree that it is something that we must see with great sensitivity, in a way that really has the focus of the man who has competence and not a person who leads to a miscarriage from social and economic life. Of course, they are neither in your own thoughts nor in our own.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u57	Nobody said that thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u58	On disability, which some people thought to have cover by private insurance companies, like accidents, etc., heard this - it was said by a number of circles, we in papers - it is not even possible to discuss. The government has declared this. It is not something we can even consider as a start of discussion. Social security, above all, must protect the weakest and that is what we have done with our legislative initiative since April 2015. For the first time we faced the problem of welfare policy on the basis of people's real needs, because we have a humanitarian crisis and since April 2015 we have provided a sum of about EUR 900 million for our subsidised policy. Under no circumstances have we directed the municipalities to make cuts as a ministry. No way. I have seen within the work we do in the Ministry the initiative of municipalities, which alone, from their own funds, the municipality, have introduced some of their own privileged benefits of their own inspiration and which cut them down. That is something we do not know. We know this might happen. On the initiative of municipalities, some money has been given. I conclude with the example you said: You said about insured seventy-eight years with 81% disability. The amount of the account is currently in existence from 8 September. Any person who had lost such a disability was returned.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u59	Her application was made on 9 September. You said 8 September.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u60	It's true. It doesn't matter. So what we are announcing is, as is what was announced about the freezing of contributions, because tomorrow it will be a title that I said something else today. I'm saying this again what the Prime Minister said about the freezing of debts. It applies to the integer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Minister, for your presence. Parliamentarian Mr Panagiotis Mitatakis is requesting a absence permit in the United Kingdom from 3 October to 5 October 2016 and a absence permit in Qatar from 26 October to 30 October 2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u62	The House therefore approved the requested permission. We enter the discussion of the fourth under No 1257/13-9-2016 topical question of the First Circuit MP of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister of Rural Development and Food, on the fair compensation of the affected producers since the glacier in March 2016, which caused extensive damage to the trees of Larisa. Mr. Red, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u63	Minister, on March 26, 2016, the region of Tyrnavo was hit by an ice-cream. In particular, many pears, peaches, apricots and vineyards have suffered considerable damage. According to the ELGA regulation, the glacier exists when the temperature drops below 0 degrees Celsius. According to the valid weather stations, in the area that night the temperature was -3 degrees Celsius. The damage is, in fact, too great, especially in pears and apricots. On 24 May 2016, a meeting was held at the Ministry, in which the commitment as set up by a committee was undertaken in order to compensate all these producers due to climate change. You ask: What is the course of the work of this committee? Also, the reasonable question that all producers of pears, peaches and vineyards are waiting to hear, especially in the villages of Trees and Platanulia, is whether you intend to compensate them directly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u64	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, thank you for the question. I have to tell you that the producers in the Tyrnavos region - because they were not only in these areas, but also in Thessaly and Macedonia - were anxious, so they also came to the Ministry twice, as to whether the recorded ice temperature will be in place, taken into account by the ELGA and the compensation will be paid. The Ministry's view is that the law and the regulation should be applied. Do we have an ice temperature record? Are we under zero? The ELGA services will move to provide compensation. In this case we had a contradiction between some meteorological stations, but it is quite clear that there was -2, it is registered by the official stations, so it is true. Therefore, the procedure for compensation has been initiated, i.e. the necessary labelling has been carried out and the announcements have been made. Let me tell you that in the Damasian region where we had the ice-cream a thousand nine hundred statements were made. Thus, the work of individualised assessments is under way for vines and almonds at the moment, as are overall estimates - not individualised - of nuclei fruit crops. Then we will have a notification of the findings and the payment of the compensation will be followed. Where there are findings in which there are disagreements, there is the procedure of objections. What I have to say and which farmers know very well is that there is an ice-cream compensation procedure, once we have flowering. Therefore, if the frost finds the trees in the flowering, as was done in these cases in the Farsalon region, we have compensation, and that is why we have started the process, and that is why the statements have been made. You have referred to another matter. I'll answer my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u66	Good, thank you. Mr. Red, do you have anything to add to your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u67	Yes, Mr. President. Minister, while, of course, there was no consistent disagreement at the meteorological stations, it is clear that the temperature was at -2. The disagreement was on which stage of the crop the frost, in the flowering or in the fruit, because as far as the fruit is concerned, this is a secondary damage. What I know is that there may have been statements, but they have not come to assess the damage at the moment. On 24 May a commitment was made to set up a committee whose role and purpose was precisely that, compensation due to climate change. I am conveying you the intense concern of the farmers in the Tyrnavos region that they will not be compensated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u68	Thank you. Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u69	I think it has become quite clear that farmers affected by the glacier are being compensated and the process is under way to respond to the thousands of ninety-two claims for compensation. That's ice cream. We're done with this. There is one question which we will answer once again in the House and which has been raised this year with the so-called 'carrots'. In the opinion of some scientists, it is due to the weather in the early winter. This acarpia first appeared in Crete, the Peloponnese and then in Thessaly and Macedonia. It is not provided for under the law, by the ELGA regulation, compensation for incarpia. What did the ministry do in the first phase? Because it is not only the meeting you are talking about, but there have also been meetings between the Ministry and the ELGA with producers from all over the country. There was a scientific committee from scientists from the Ministry, research centres and universities, which brought about an estimate that was not recommended due to a timely change, due to the phenomenon of climate change. In order to be able to enter the ELGA regulation, namely the law, which is the cause of changing the regulation, the law - and therefore the compensation - we need a documented recommendation. The Governing Council of the ELGA is currently in this direction. We are discussing the issues of changing the regulation, which are in five directions. One direction relates to the issue of plant health and plant health compensation. For each of the causes a documented work is needed, a study is needed. The second area is veterinary. That's where we have the same issue. And farmers have issues that put us and we need to see if there is to be a change in the ELGA regulation. There is a third issue that is legal. There is a fourth issue, which is insurance, management issues. And the fifth is the issue of modernising the administrative machine, so that there is multiplication in response, speed of response. So these are all issues on the ELGA board and the Ministry, which are under way. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u70	Thank you. The sixth question, under number 1227/6-9-2016, on the situation of red loans in Evros and Thrace, will not be discussed because Minister Stathakis meets the institutions. The third, with number 1226/6-9-2016, a topical question by the Member of the Attica Parliament, Mr Georgios Vlachos, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the abolition of police departments in the Region of Attica, will not be discussed due to Mr. Toska's misguided obligations. The second is the second with number 1266/13-9-2016 second time question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Athanasios Vardalis to the Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Rural Development and Food, on the problem of heavy rainfall in the Municipality of Thermaikos of the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki. Mr. Bardalis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is well known, I imagine, that the disasters from the recent heavy rainfalls. With my question, I would like to dwell mainly on the Thermaikos Municipality of the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki, where we have had extensive disasters. They flooded houses, streets, workplaces, mainly shopping and catering shops. Cars were dragged into the sea, rural roads were destroyed and, the most tragic thing I would say, they were at risk of human lives and from what we learn, according to the reports, we also had a death because the missing woman from Machinery was found, unfortunately dead. Minister, I imagine that because you are from Central Macedonia, you know that this situation with the Municipality of Thermaikos is not for the first time. Six, seven years ago, the same or close disasters were caused by the corresponding floods, and in general the inhabitants of the region were faced with smaller or larger disasters. The problem and, above all, the cause of the problem is localised and, if not directly addressed - I am referring to it - it is certain that we are still at the beginning of autumn - such flooding phenomena will occur again in this region. In other words, the real cause of the problem has not been tackled for so many years, obviously some people bear responsibility. All governments have been responsible for your own government so far. You've been closing for twenty months. Of course the "principles" of the local administration are also responsible, and the region and the municipality, because they support such a policy, which anti-flood protection works are last in the hierarchy, but also because they remember to claim similar works only after disasters. And we ask specifically, Mr Minister, fourteen days have passed since the floods. Has an exceptional allowance been granted to meet the first needs of those affected? And, in any case, how do you think, will you give such an allowance? How do you plan to support the wounded? For example, beyond the floods, there is also a storm of seizures for'red' loans, etc. Will these affected residents be excluded? The same applies to PPC's invoices, etc. Secondly, we ask whether you are going to finance specific anti-military projects that the region needs in order to solve this problem, whether damages have been recorded and whether you are going to compensate 100% of the disasters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u72	The Minister has the floor for the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u73	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague, for the question. You will allow me, of course, to say that the question refers to three ministries, and I cannot have the authority to speak on behalf of the other ministries. You know that the topical questions are addressed to a ministry and answering a ministry. I would like to tell you, therefore, that the damage that was done on 6 September opened immediately for the part concerning the Ministry of Rural Development to make statements about the damage suffered by vegetable crops and vineyards in the area of the Municipality of Thermaikos. I visited the area and a happy thing is that it had become the harvest in the vineyards and so we had little damage to the winemaking industry. There's a fortnight to object. It's 15 working days. They haven't finished. They end tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. Therefore, ELGA collects the statements of the affected farmers and farmers. Because the livestock damage is growing faster and has an eight-hour deadline, I tell you there is a statement. Of course, there are enough animals that have been killed. It's ninety-six, a flock. It's a loss of a herd to be compensated. You have referred to other issues relating to flooding, road and water works. Let me tell you for your information - to have an overall answer - that the Ministry of Interior for this year's period has subsidised the Municipality of Thermaikos for projects in this direction with the sum of EUR 500,000. The Ministry of Interior has also requested the decentralised administration to assess where the costs are incurred and to make the corresponding allowances. The Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare, with which we discussed, provides funds for flood support, whether they concern household losses or other losses. He's waiting for statements. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I want a second, Mr President. No statements have been made requesting the Ministry to pay the money. It is a question of co-ordination between the municipality and the region in order to reach the relevant ministries and to obtain compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u74	Mr. Vardalis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, first of all it is not an excuse that the question is addressed to three ministries. It is addressed to three ministries because all three are responsible for dealing with this problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u76	I don't want to tell you. The President will inform you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u77	All right, the president will know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u78	The Minister does not question this, he simply says that he cannot answer it himself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u79	He said you'd let me know. The problems that have arisen...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u80	I'm telling you, every department is answering for its responsibility. In order for the other ministries to answer you, therefore, you should put a question to them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u81	That's understandable.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u82	Minister, you're telling me that I have to ask the same question three times to get a specific answer because the disasters...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u83	That is what Parliament's Rules of Procedure says, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u84	Go on, Mr. Vardalis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u85	We ask three government ministers about specific things. In our opinion, this is not an excuse, but it is an escape from answering the specific questions we ask with this question. Secondly, we have heard various promises compared to certain conditions, if there are, on the days when applications have to be made, the bad coordination, because the applications of the affected have not yet arrived and they have been said. In any case, we have heard that if they are submitted, they will be examined and, if I understand it, they will be dealt with positively. Minister, first of all we don't have a trial of intent. I told you that this disaster has been done for the same reason. The people of the region now have experience and, in our view, must be 'buttoned', because the most likely thing is to get from the previous disasters, that is, nothing or a very small percentage of those affected by the disaster. And I say that they must be buttoned because your general anti-popular policy is known. Of course, you are sweating to find a warm pit so that you can give the business clubs to come the long-hauled growth. Of course, you are sweating to find money to pay the creditors owed and everything you need to give for flooding projects. Our opinion is based on the previous flood in 2008, after which various studies have been carried out to address the problem. Eight years these studies are in drawers. Eight years no resources were found to finance these projects. Eight years of promises, promises, promises. Well, no more promises. No confidence should be given by the people to your policy. Only through its own struggle must it impose such solutions, and immediately repair damage and flooding projects that the region needs so that we do not live in such tragic situations. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr Vardalis. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u87	Mr President, I have referred to the Rules of Procedure of the House and the fact that each ministry responds to the brief time of a timely question, which is three and two minutes, that is, five minutes, for its own purpose. I thought you'd understand that I've done more work to serve your question. I should come and tell you what the Ministry of Rural Development says, "Thank you very much, glad and I have nothing else to say." I've asked for information to let you know why there's really a problem in the area. I would therefore like to say that I have not made any promises and there is no bad coordination. The law says that farmers who have been damaged have fifteen days to collect the information they need to make statements. And this fortnight has not come to an end. It's over tomorrow. There's been an announcement. People will be compensated for the damages they have done. I also told you that the Ministry of Interior asked the Decentralised Administration to take the evidence to compensate for other damages that have been done in the region and are in and out of the insurance network, the provincial network and the rural network and the municipal water network. I also told you that this year, in 2016, the municipality has been subsidised with EUR 500,000 to deal with the projects of the region. In addition, I told you that the Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare has funds aimed at the flood victims and at the construction and first needs and damage to the home or business. Applications need to be made. According to the document I requested and I have it here and it has a date of 16 September, the Ministry says: "We have no applications yet. If we have, we will respond." That's not a promise. It's the state's obligation. It's the Ministry's obligation. It's the government's duty. No promises. Application of the law and the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, too. It will not be discussed, due to the unreserved obligations of the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr. Stavros Kontonis, the fourth under number 1217/5-9-2016, a topical question for the second cycle of MP Pireos of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the published balance sheet of the Objective Federation (GCC). Also, due to a workload, Mr. Tsakalotos will not answer the tenth under number 1191/29-8-2016 an up-to-date question for the second cycle of the MP of Heraklion the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance on the protection of citizens against excessive bank charges. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Wednesday 29 June 2016 have been distributed and the House is asking whether they have been ratified.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u89	The minutes of Wednesday 29 June 2016 were therefore validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-19-S1-commons.u90	With the consent of the House at 19.28 minutes the sitting is closed for Tuesday, September 20, 2016, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's legislative work: according to the agenda that has been distributed.
