ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the agenda, I would like to tell you that today is forty-two years since July 20, 1974, where the Turkish invasion of Cyprus has sprung our death and refugee to more than two hundred thousand Cypriot brothers. No matter how many years it is, we must not forget. No matter how many years the memories pass, the feeling of gross injustice prevails within the soul of Hellenism. It is our duty and duty to demonstrate irresponsible determination and with the Republic of Cyprus to fight to put an end to the illegal occupation by the occupation army in Cyprus and its reunification. It is historically our responsibility to seek, together with the Republic of Cyprus, a peaceful solution to the Cyprus problem within the framework of the UN and international law resolutions. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to keep a minute's silence on behalf of the Greek Parliament for those who gave their lives for the country and the ideals of Hellenism, democracy and peace. [[In this respect, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks ……]] Their memory is eternity! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to announce to the House that the Ministers for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Economy, Development and Tourism, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Foreign Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic, Environment and Energy, Maritime and Island Policy, as well as the State Secretary for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks have today tabled a draft law: ‘The harmonisation of legislation by Directive 2012/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012 establishing a single European railway area (OJ L343, 14.12.2012) and other provisions’. This draft law has been classified by the government as urgent. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction: 'Representation of political parties, extension of the right to elect and other provisions concerning the election of MPs'. Yesterday we had a loose end - the Bureau had been informed in good time and had been approved - that was to say, the Special speaker of the Independent Greeks, Mr Vassilis Kokalis, had not spoken. So we'll start with him. There were also two more loose ends: Mr Theocharopoulos, who is here and I will give him immediately after the word, and Mr Theocharis, who is not here at the moment. If he comes here today, he'll be ahead, or we'll normally continue where we left off, with Mr. Demetrios Rizzo. I will say the first 50 speakers to be prepared for. It is Mr. Aristides Fokas, Mr. Konstantinos Spartinos, Mr. Ioannis Maniatis and Mr. Apostolos Vesyropoulos, and the list of seven minutes at present continues and if necessary to the end of the day we will see what will happen next year. I can inform you that in addition to the competent Minister, Mr Kurubli, who will speak about 18: 00, they have asked to intervene eight Ministers. Mr. Curublis, what is this thing? I wish there were so many ministers present in the timely questions. Anyway, no more than five minutes. And then, of course, the Minister will take the floor in parliamentary terms. So by 18.00 we shall proceed with our fellow Members and, if necessary, with the intervention of a Minister. Mr. Red has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since yesterday in plenary we have been discussing one of the most important bills, the adoption of the law on the introduction of simple proportionally as the basic electoral system. This bill is not discussed in the warmest terms. There's no chance of elections. This category, therefore, of the fact that the government exploits micro-participation, this bill is a waste. This government will be judged in autumn 2019. This legislative initiative seeks no political advantage on the part of the Government. On the contrary, there is the possibility of a programme of convergences and consensus between the parties, but above all, there is the possibility of a more proportional representation in Parliament. The warlords of simple analogy claim that with mere analogy, there will be immorality, that this place cannot be governed. Answer: In 2012 we had a three-party coup. Answer second: Is there a possibility that a party will be self-powered at this time? Of course not. The argument is therefore a waste. The Greek people have decided on the last four elections not to give self-reliance to any party. With this attitude he commanded that there should not be self-powered governments. He gave a very clear order, that there be consents. We cannot ignore this mandate and we must respect its wishes and commands. I remind you that the PASOK in October 2009 won the elections with 44%. How long did he stay in the government? About two years. I think that we cannot ignore this as a Greek Parliament, that is, the Greek people's already expressed opinion on basic cooperation governments, on non-self-government governments. No one can question that. Therefore, the argument that a mere analogue leads to insolence is not correct. And because I mentioned the PASOK, it suddenly remembered that these arrangements were fragmentary. I would remind you that last year, with an amendment, PASOK tabled the introduction of a mere proportional bonus and the abolition of the bonus. This bill introduces radical arrangements and I have sincerely waited for the Qualified Opposition specifically for the vote at 17 to consent. To understand how the bonus is removed that it is a micro-party interest, it doesn't consent, but why not a vote at 17? It was argued that the seventeen-year-old is incapable of a legal act. But, after the first debate in the committee, this argument came up when the serious opposition that says what happened? That the seventeen-year-old can even be married, can't he vote? The seventeen-year-old can go to court, can't he vote? Why were you afraid of the seventeenth vote? I am not only referring to the Council of Europe's resolution - that is the last argument - that all Member States have called for the vote not to be introduced at 17 but also at 16. What does the law say? He says that from 15 to 18 the child is capable of justice, of course under preconditions. He can be accounted for as an act. Because the debate has had to go on these legal issues, which you quickly abandoned, I would remind you that the Criminal Code places a refreshing refreshing effect from 18 to 21. What would that mean? That not even at 18 could anyone vote? Of course not. Therefore, the argument about the incompetence of a minor's juvenile, so he can't vote, is not right. And the world sees them. The seventeen who watch us judge and know. Also, as far as the 3% limit is concerned, we in the Independent Greeks are concerned with saying so - let me take this opportunity to speak in passing - to say yes, to abolish, to become 2.2%, 2.5%. No, our position is not to be abolished, for known national reasons. Because we are putting the national interest above all and not the party. We have always been in the national interest, and today the national interest demands the establishment of a more proportional electoral system. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the electoral law is not exhausted here. The issues to be discussed are the fragmentation of the large constituencies, the vote of the Greeks who live abroad and are closely linked to the legal order of Greece and not the vote of the homosexuals, as the New Democracy claimed. The kinsman votes elsewhere. He can't vote here. Let's see it. However, with regard to the vote of the Greeks who have left Greece for the last five years, they have been in close contact with the Greek legal order, yes, to open up the dialogue. Dialogue with the vote on the electoral law has been opened. We must be able to lay the foundations for a sustainable electoral system that does not change at once, but it will ensure the most representative representation in the Greek Parliament. In my view, however, the simple analogue signals the ending of the post-multiple system in which it dominated what electoral system? The enhanced analogy. I'm sure the Transmigration did. But I personally believe that he has damaged the country much more than he has offered. In Postpopulation, corruption was born, and the complexity was born. I will always say that the party called PASOK has created too many problems in Greek society. The controversy and party intentions which have prevailed since the first moment, in view of the debate on the vote on simple analogy, put on the table a question which is not at all theoretical. Can we, ladies and gentlemen, have an institutional change from above by the government, from the political structure, a genuine reform, such as the introduction of simple analogy, restructure the party system and play a 'educational role' to parties and political persons that are organically linked to interests historically integrated and dependent on the system of interlocutory? Because the simple analogue - followed by the debate on the revision of the Constitution - is not a simple bill, it is not a simple representation of the mandate of the Greek people or display. Is the simple analogue to play a 'educational role'? The answer is: Only if it depends on the successful or unsuccessful outcome of the government's conflict with its structural dimension. Only in this way can the resolution of the political system from above, as is the case with the draft law, succeed. Only in this way can there be wider institutional changes in the institutional and political system. Only in this case can a new starting point be established so that parties and formations can be forced to seek legalisation on the people's social base, meet the needs and social interests. Then there can indeed be coherent governmental shocks and long-standing alliances expressing genuine social majorities. This can only be done by the successful outcome of this government's battle with the implication - I stress it - on its structural basis. Just like that. Will the Greek people know what politicians put the finger on honey for the 'SIEMENS' case? What does the world demand from a serious government? Equality, pay for those who have "eat", hit the argument. Does it have to do with mere analogy? Of course it has something to do with it. Otherwise, if the argument, which is the will of the government, is not struck, because you see how much obstacles are to the government's well-known interests - simply proportionally will lead to a formal democratic expression. I'm on my way to 3%. Everyone has the indiscriminate democratic right to express themselves and to stand for their entry into Parliament. However, we must be very careful here and for the well-known national reasons this percentage must be maintained. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the mere analogous signifies the end of post-population. It marks the beginning of a new Greek democracy, along with proposals for the revision of the Constitution. It marks the principle of credibility of the political system. It marks the principle of transparency. Who opposes the non-correction of the mandate of the Greek people? Does anyone question the fact that this draft law, the simple analogy, is it fair? Who wants the opposite? Nobody. I think it's a one-way vote. We, the Independent Greeks are putting the national interest above all. I said before that we are in favour of a 3% reduction and 2.5% reduction, but it must not happen. They need insurance plates. We support this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Red. Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, society has already decided that it does not want self-powered governments. Since 2012, four electoral procedures have not turned out to be self-government, not even with the unacceptable bonuses of the fifty seats. It is therefore necessary to establish a mere analogy for the truest possible portrayal of the will of the citizens. It will liberate social forces that will not face artificial dilemmas of re-reconstructed bipartism and will know that the governments will come from cooperation. The existing electoral law favours the maintenance of a renewed bipartisanism which cannot lead to the crisis being overcome. On the other hand, we have seen this a few times before. On the contrary, with a system of mere proportional representation for citizens without having to adopt artificial dilemmas they will vote for that party, which will be closer to their positions, to strengthen it in the subsequent partnerships imposed by the new electoral system. We can no longer unleash the will of the citizens or overlook the country's need for an electoral system free of distortions and statistical alchemys, including the immediate abolition of the 50-seat bonus. Today there is a need for understanding, not division and artificial polarization. It requires an electoral system which will not only favour cooperation, but will impose them. I support the fact that institutional changes will lead to a change of attitude and political forces. On the other hand, DMAR and the Democratic Reconciliation have proposed a government of national consensus with a large majority of all pro-European forces. The adoption of this proposal will lead to political stability, by understanding, away from artificial polarization and division, leading to greater deadlock. This proposal is also served by changing the electoral system by abolishing the 50 seats bonus. Ladies and gentlemen, in the bill there is the positive element of the abolition of the bonus of the fifty seats that erroneouss the popular will. However, there are also significant omissions, such as the exclusion of Greek from the democratic process from the electoral process and the lack of provision for the necessary fragmentation of the major constituencies. However, the proposal of mere proportional with the abolition of the fifty-seat bonus is the first necessary step, which is why it has also been tabled to Parliament in the previous period as a proposal for a law without any other change. As regards my party, the Democratic Left, the abolition of the 50 seats bonus was proposed in 2013 in the House with a proposal for a law by the entire parliamentary group at the time, and the introduction of the simple proportional is a decision of the recent DIMAR conference, as well as of the recent Consensus Conference. Ladies and gentlemen, the Renewable Left always, when it set the necessity of mere proportionality, put it as a tool for governance. He didn't make discounts with practicability pretexts. He considered that it was not contrary to prudence. There has never been any other view in any historical Left leader. Ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of SYRIZA's governance, but also the programming statements in October 2015, we have asked the Prime Minister - and I personally in my speech in the programming declarations - to bring immediate changes that are fixed positions of the wider progressive space and the left space, such as the mere proportional to the abolition of the 50 seats bonus. Mr Tsipras did not react at that time and did not respond positively to the request. Today, SYRIZA, ten months after the elections, realizing that there is no room for a new electoral victory due to his deadlocked policies, brings about a change in the electoral system. It is clear that SYRIZA is moving and deciding on the basis of its micro-party purposes. The New Democracy, on the other hand, seeks to maintain the unacceptable bonus of the fifty seats to achieve once again an artificial parliamentary majority. A few days ago Mr. Mitsotakis said that the simple analogue is a bomb on the foundations of the system. Isn't it a bomb in clientele relations? Isn't populism a bomb? Isn't splitting and artificial polarization a bomb? And is it a bomb just proportional? And the words here lose their meaning. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, there is no larger state than asking as a party from the state to give you what society deprives you. That's the reality. But we have nothing to do with the logic of SYRIZA and the New Democracy, sterile denouncement and populism when they are in opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we are voting on a electoral law on how the elections take place. We are not voting on SYRIZA's stay or not - ANEL with fraudulent, populism and deadlocked policies. Our view is that this government is ineffective. But at the same time the elections must now be held firmly with the simple proportional system and without the unacceptable bonuses of the fifty seats. It's so simple. Ladies and gentlemen, today, on the occasion of the electoral law, SYRIZA and the New Democracy are competing in purposes and tactics. That's why I don't get into that logic. And the only reliable way not to adopt that logic is to stay firm in your position. This is how to deal with populism, right-wing and left-wing populism. Because today citizens seek truths, without measuring political and party costs. This will bring politics back to the fore. This will enable the country to overcome the deep economic and social crisis. To regain citizens' confidence in the political system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall start the list of speakers. Mr. Theocharis will speak later when the five of his colleagues are completed. Then there will be the first Minister, Ms. Theano Fotou. Mr. Dimitrios Rizzos has the floor. I repeat that the other colleagues are Mr Fokas, Mr Spartinos, Mr Manatis and Mr Veyropoulos. Mr Theocharis, Mrs Fotou, will be followed and we will continue with the list again. Mr. Rizzo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a great deal could be said here for the decades that the Left, the progressive and democratic citizens of this country, have done to establish the mere proportionality. To a large extent, the proposal for a law which we are debating these days in the Greek Parliament is justified. The issue of the abolition of the fifty-seat bonus is greater than that of the 50-seat bonus. It's about the whole Greek society. This is demonstrated by the measurements made a few days ago and shows that even by the voters of the New Democracy, 48% declares that it is against the bonus in the first party and calls for equality of vote. Especially this latter one, I would remind Members of the New Democracy, because they have recently presented a sudden worship of polling, but at the same time they are trying to hide the claims and wishes of even their own electoral base. The logic of mere analogy is that of democratic sensitivity and perspective, of strengthening pluralism and the co-formulation of government's work against election blackmails for the country's future, the risk of instability and instability. As to the present day, we have not had any parliamentary powerful and with atrocious majority governments, all being swept like paper towers in front of their misfortune with social needs and popular will. Supporting governments with stolen votes or stability or strong governments creates. Allow me at this point to make some more general comments. The problem with Civic Opposition, but also with other parties within Parliament, is not that they are simply opposed to a new electoral law and the abolition of the bonus, but that they oppose and react to any progressive change that incorporates elements of justice and equality. They do not want anything to change, for example, with television licences. In other words, they want the canals to continue to bleed public frequencies without giving the state corps a franc. They don't want to change anything with the biggrowers. Other lists forgot in drawers, others didn't see them. They didn't know, they didn't hear anything about offshore, about misery or black political money. They do not want and never wanted to collide with a system of interaction and interest, which literally broke out and ruins the country decades now. They mocked us when we put together the free health care program for all our insecure fellow citizens. They do not want to change anything in the way the NRP or other European programmes are managed to date, with citizens listening to millions, but projects not to see. Let the Jews ask about the new closed gym in Alexandroupolis, for which thirty years now they are listening, but only today, with the signature of the Deputy Minister of Finance, Aleksos Haritsis, is going to proceed, for the 3 million euros given for the new Archaeological Museum of Alexandroupolis, for the projects of the European programs that unlock both for the expansion of the natural gas network in the region of East Macedonia and for the projects in Alexandroupolis. All of this is not to give an ideal picture of the situation or to say that everything works clock. The daily lives of our fellow citizens continue to have great difficulties. I am referring to them to show that in reality there are two basic ideologies, perceptions that conflict, and that is easily understood in the debate on electoral law. One is the Civic Opposition, which seeks to maintain or maintain all those pathogens, distortions and interests that have led us to the current crisis. On the other hand, we meet today's government's efforts to reform, innovation, changes in public administration, legislative initiatives for equality, equality and deepening the democratic institutions of the country. Let me say a few words about the vote in the seventeen, but also about the vote of the new immigrants. For the first time, I have to say that I am unable to understand the dreadful lessons expressed by the people of the Opposition on this issue. The new generation, our youths, is always the point where we should look, look, look, look, the point of reference of all of us. Therefore, the vote from the seventeen, a direction in which the European institutions have been moving over the last few years, only a positive impact and a result can be brought for the country itself. After all, our young people are now growing in an environment with important and many times rapid political developments. Political time in recent years has been very dense, which allows us to be sure that the political criterion for young people and our young people and there is and we have nothing to fear of. All we have to do is listen to it. For the record, I would remind you that we heard the same thing when the vote was adopted at eighteen and even worse. As far as young immigrants are concerned, the people who in recent years of the crisis have been forced to leave abroad, this bill does not close the door to their vote. I'd say the opposite. We must, however, stress that we have discussed this and unanimously reached the Committee from the Greek Democrats, that the recording of these migratory flows must take precedence over and the precise conditions for their participation in the electoral process should be clarified. Potential problems can also be solved in the constitutional review process. It is deeply provocative and hypocritical for Greeks abroad, those who, forty years now, have not even been able to record the Greeks' internal populations organised and formed, suddenly appear as honors of their vote and their electoral right. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very serious debate which should not be put into the games of power and of small and medium-sized interests. At least, from the area I come from, we know very well what migration is going to mean for those who leave and for those who live. In conclusion, we must also say a few words about the paths of dignity that have been heard here yesterday in the House. Finally, let us be told by the Officerial Response: Which Prime Minister and what government did the Prime Minister not hand over the office to the upcoming Prime Minister as he was due in contrast to the President of the House at that time, who also handed over, but was present at the delivery ceremony? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, too. Mr Aristides Fokas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since the Central Association has made clear its position on the issue of the new electoral law, we have received an unprecedented and rational warfare from other opposition parties and a portion of the media. Our sin? We say "yes" to the simple analogue and the abolition of the chair bonus, our President Vassili Leventis's permanent position for many decades, because we believe that simply analogue favours a culture of substantial partnerships and will force the parties to leave to the end sterile micropolitical controversy and to sum up forces for the benefit of our country. This is a brave incision, regardless of why Mr. Tsipras presently brings the electoral bill to Parliament. Our attitude is a crystal stop, a stand of responsibility, and is taken by the Acoustic Opposition today as a hand of help to co-government. Of course, in the New Democracy, beyond all else, you have a short and selective memory. You forget it seems you who, today, blame the announcements of your former president, Antonis Samaras in Zapeia, when he declared with great confidence that he will never conflict with the destructive PASOK, as he said. He said: "If we made a government along with PASOK, we would be prisoners of his own policy. But we will overthrow this policy." "We would be captive of the weaknesses of PASOK", another line of your former president. And the next day, with a magic wand, it's all over. PASOK has ceased to be destructive and you have made a fine confrontation with those you have been daunting for years. And now you dare accuse the Central Association of giving SYRIZA a quantum, you who are ready for satellites. Well, this fairy tale has to end sometime. Cooperation is only good when it suits you. Find the first thing among you in the New Democracy, the "caramanlic" with the "mastics" and the conservatives with the neoliberals. None of us are to blame for the fact that, despite the repatriations of failed coexistence, you are still in the public interest. On the one hand, you are accusing SYRIZA of the Varoufakis plans for the nationalisation of the Bank of Greece and on the other, Members are asking you a question, denounced by the Greek banks. In a speech to your parliamentary group a year ago, Mr. Kikilis talked about the need for cultural cooperation, but he said 'no' to ideological confusion. But has there been greater confusion among your friends on the part of the fact that you have confronted PASOK? Stop insulting the intelligence of Greek citizens. This Babel, this political "whatever it is", is the best proof that partnerships are needed to win our country's rescue bet. I am sorry, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK, but you cannot! You have been tested by the Greek people and have been judged at least inadequate. We have also seen the one-party governments, at least from 1974 until today. They were changing PASOK, New Democracy, New Democracy and PASOK. You have in your hands the financial bleeding of the Greek people. You opened the door to the memorials and led to the conversion of our country into a feud. It is time to let egos and political superstitions, to propose the common good and to vote in favour of simple logic. Above all, it's our homeland, or while you're chasing your tail and looking for fantastic enemies, the story will overcome you if it hasn't already crossed you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u9	I invite my colleague, Mr. Constantine Spartan to the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the introduction of an electoral system and how, in the end, the citizen is represented and his voice is heard within our political system, it is not just a debate on the vote on another bill. On the contrary, it is a moment when every political body and every Member individually must take a clear position on the electorate and answer whether the functioning of the political system that we have lived for many decades and the quality of our democracy, which has emerged from this function, is satisfactory or requires radical change. For us, the answer is clear: we need more and more qualitative democracy. The government therefore brings an electoral law with this very rationale and as the first of a series of interventions aimed at the radical upgrading of the political system and the representation system, as well as of our own democracy. In order to counteract the tendency to depreciate and challenge the political system and its institutions and to restore citizens' confidence in democratic institutions. The years of the crisis, where too much has changed, are there any people who have understood nothing, especially those who have been devastated at this time? The people themselves turned their backs on self-powered governments, unlike the electorate. He imposed in his vote partnerships. Nevertheless, from the point of view of those who react to the substance of the draft law, we see a obsession with an elitist and sceptical perception, an opposition to the maximum proportionality of parties and citizens, on the grounds that there will be no stable governments and that the calm of the political system may be disturbed. They're talking about a bomb on his foundation. Obviously, they are interested in the tranquility of the political system built by themselves for many years, of the client state, of interdependence, of arbitraryness, of despair of the people's will, that is, of the political system which the vast majority of the Greek people, independently of political and ideological position, wants to destroy, of course, by ignoring these European cigars that stable political governments exist in most European countries. It seems that they do not consider Greek voters to be enough Europeans for now. They expect to hide under the carpet all that they see every day the light of publicity, now that for the first time after the Cultivation the connections are changed and various "margaritas" of the periods of their almighty are revealed. And we're just in the beginning. Many and interesting will follow and some do not seem to feel well. Of course, the position of the New Democracy is well known and we must admit that it is quite clear. But PASOK? He began his founding years, supporting a mere analogue. He forgot about the years of his almightyness and coexistence with the New Democracy. She's been reconstructed recently, no time ago. And today she renounces it by proposing a five-point electoral system, the four-and-a-half of which one could say that they do not constitute disagreements with the government's proposal, whether they are contained in the draft law or have the agreement to be discussed in the direction that the PASOK rapporteur was proposing yesterday. That is what I think has also been made clear by the suggestion made by the State Secretary Balafa. The half-point of disagreement refers to the use of bonuses for today's case of the first with 42% or more. It is a pretext to hide in an awkward way that PASOK and New Democracy are not matched. The result of today's general political embarrassment, its lack of political orientation, its inability to monitor developments in a large part of European social democracy, the possibility for the Group of Parliament to balance only at the lowest possible level, in point zero. The result of the similar political discomfort and inability to compose the views of the members of the Group of the European People's Party is the position of the river. Only this does not seem to be very disturbing in following the way of the New Democracy, however strange it may seem for at least some of its executives on a long-running basis to request the simple analogy. Enlargement of the electorate is another step, ladies and gentlemen, for more substantial democracy. They claim that at this age of seventeen there is no maturity necessary for this right. They're wrong. In recent years, the new generations have matured very much, ladies and gentlemen, especially in the New Democracy and have matured with accelerated procedures, in a violent and often painful way. You owe them that maturity, in your own policies and your allies, who have blown their unemployment, who have pushed away hundreds of thousands of immigrants who have been deprived of the opportunity to dream. So now you're afraid of their verdict and you prefer to keep them bouquets and invisible for the longest possible time. This electoral law is a deep institutional division. There'll be more to follow. In addition, it comes in time, far away from the next elections, as, as the Prime Minister has said, they will take place in September 2019. And if some people help keep the bonus for the next election, they'll know we'll be here to fruit it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Ioannis Maniotis is called in Stepma. Immediately after the speech Mr Vésiropoulos will receive. Mr. Maniatou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again the term 'prosperity' applies and has become common. A lot of debate, a lot of conversation, and at the end a constant request from the historic, the real Left, is faded with tachyty-tracking moves and a strategy based on veiling governmental tactics and political opportunism. Much more so that in this case the honorer and regulator of this particular game, which ended yesterday, was the Golden Dawn, since according to all the government actors, the votes that were to be summed up for the proposal for a law of the government were ninety-seven and of course the votes do not "smell". We are therefore at the peak of political and governmental selfishness and gloomy. No relation whatsoever to issues of morality or issues of faith in the established principles. If the standard principle of mere analogous by the SYRIZA Government was applied, it could well have come this legislation in 2015, in two and three opportunities. So we have a regular second party according to polls. And in this strategy everything goes hand in hand. They obey one side. At the same time, however, the currency is turning - because the currency is the same - and on the other hand, we have the acceptance and support of the extraordinary, out-of-real bonus of the fifty seats, which brings us back to times when the first parties were given sardines and forty-fives. Well, that story died, it's over. Society now lives in other rhythms. And since he lives at other paces, we have a chance, ladies and gentlemen, not to legislate a card, but above all on the basis of the proposal that we have tabled as a Democratic Compact and, given that the government claims that elections will take place in the autumn of 2019, to give the Greek Parliament, the political system, the time to postpone tomorrow's vote on the bill and so until September we will have the opportunity to speak seriously and maturely. As I do not hear - and I hope, for reasons of political rhetoric - some of my fellow Members will say that the Democratic Integration is inconsistent with its positions, I will once again table the five points of our proposals. First, dismantling the bonus. But if the people decide and give a percentage of 42% to the first party, then let there be a bonus of twenty to thirty seats. But only then. Secondly, we obviously agree on the vote at seventeen. Thirdly, it would obviously be incomprehensible and nationally dangerous - and we all understand what we are saying - to discuss the 3% reduction for reasons of regularity and government approach. That would be outside of every conversation. And we come to the two big issues. Where does the political complication develop? Where can the dark, black political money exist? Obviously, where the costs of the candidates are very large, i.e. in the large constituencies. Where is the moral evidence of alleged obedience to the permanent principle of mere analogy, without taking into account the fact that, in the very large regions, the greenhouses of opacity and corruption can be developed? Why is that not a question, an issue that we are asking for, and we have a comprehensive proposal? There is the last point - the fifth point - which, in my opinion, is an issue that can go beyond everything else. Ladies and gentlemen, a study was published yesterday, on the basis of which, from 2008 until today, some three hundred thousand Greek and Greek women who have been abroad working abroad, have contributed to the national economies of the host states 50 billion euros. They are Greeks of production, Greeks of innovation, Greeks of entrepreneurship, Greeks that produce, offer, tax on the places where they are installed. Those Greeks of productivity, entrepreneurship, the Greeks who can really help us overcome the problems we are in, do we not want to honor them as a political system and give them the opportunity equal to all the rest of us who live in Greece to vote? Is this not a top incorrect one - not to say non-ethical - addressing the great problem that all Greek citizens are equal? So because things are very clear, we, the Democratic Reconciliation, the Greek democrats and socialists say "no" to a law - supermarket, we say "no" to a law of salt card, we say "no" to a blender of political turbulence and we clarify our position. The country precisely because it has suffered a great deal, society precisely because it has serious problems, much more serious than the early debate on electoral law, wants us to go to two major pillars. The first is the pillar of reforms in taxation, public administration, justice, the productive model of the country, and the second pillar is progressive patriotism, again feeling Greece proud, again national self-confidence, institutional equilibrium in all international fora, to upgrade our geopolitical position. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we call on the government to stand responsibly and to reach agreement on all the political forces for an appointment of the entire political system in the country, where there will also be a new, proportional electoral law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u13	Mr Besiropoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, how many of you think that the major problem right now for the country and for citizens is electoral law when thousands of businesses and professionals are no longer unable to meet their tax and insurance obligations, when there are citizens who are no longer threatened with seizures, but are confiscations, when there is no real hope, outlet and development prospects for the economy? The methods and designs of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL conflict with reality. But you underestimate citizens. You can't mislead them anymore. Nobody believes you. Greek citizens understand the purposes associated with the content and the time when the electoral law is deposited. You are turning us back twenty-seven years, copying the practices and methodology of the Mini Koutsogiorgas. The electoral law was formed on the basis of the demographic findings showing the complete collapse of the government. The elections, ladies and gentlemen, will not take place at the end of the four-year period. They'll be sooner. You will have to go to elections themselves. It's a legislative development. Your goal is to prevent the formation of a government with a trunk of New Democracy, to create conditions of chaos, political instability and instability, to save you as a political motto. In your effort there are various 'usable' but also willing - without introductory terms - who will vote for this electoral law. But you're not good enough. Mr. Tsipras will lose in the elections with the same electoral law that he has managed to form a government, a electoral law that did not prevent him from forming a government. But it aims to prevent the New Democracy itself from being prevented by the electoral law that it has brought to the vote. Of course, if polls gave a different picture, and if there was even a case of a change in the political scene, Mr. Tsipras would not discuss bringing about a change in electoral law. In fact, some of the government's party argue, stressing that it is a matter of consistency for them by electoral law. In fact, this approach is another sign of political amoralism of the government's majority. Who lost the consistency of finding it for you? Ladies and gentlemen, by taking as a working hypothesis the electoral law you bring, we will see the distribution of seats in the last two elections in January and September 2015. If this electoral law were in force in the January 2015 elections, the division of seats would be as follows: SYRIZA 119, New Democracy 91, Golden Dawn 21, River 20, KE 18, ANEL 16 and PASOK 15. In the September 2015 elections, the respective distribution of seats would be: SYRIZA 114, New Democracy 90, Golden Dawn 22, PASOK 20, KE 18, Potami 13, ANEL 12, Centron Association 11. In both cases, that is to say, there would be a tent of insolence. They would need four parties to form a government, which is unlikely with the data of political geography and the differences that exist. The fact that the rule of law is not the only one I put it. The Minister for the Interior had put it two months ago, when he said that with the simple analogue the place could never be governed. Of course, it is not enough to form any government or solve the problem. The question is how stable this government is, how sustainable and coherent it can be, which is linked to common programming objectives. It may be in the mind of someone to form a universal government under the threat of intensity, in order to save themselves politically and to be able to play a role in the political system. The formation of a government, however, is dictated by the needs of the country, not to float some cork or to rescue and have the role of others. If you want there to be a common field of agreement on the electoral law, you would start from the vote of the impoverished Greeks and from the fragmentation of the big regions. There can be convergence on these two points. That is why the New Democracy has tabled a specific amendment. The government, however, serves selfish and fraudulent political goals, destroys institutions, seeks insolence and political instability. He's not gonna make it. The next elections will take place under the current electoral law and you will lose them, ladies and gentlemen of the government majority. The Greek people will take you down to your actual election figures. You are not worthy, you are not capable, but you do not have the democratic legitimacy to move on to institutional changes either in the Constitution or in the electoral law. You are a minority in society and the electorate. Whatever you vote on, it will not be worth after the elections, nor the paper on which the relevant FEK has been printed, because immediately after the elections a large political and social majority will proceed to change and abolish the electoral law that you are bringing today. The country needs political change, a new strong and firm governance with a plan, a new agreement of truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u15	Now the first Minister, Mrs. Theano Fotio, will make her speech for five minutes. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, as a fraud, the New Democracy condemns the bill on simple analogues. Dollars and the simple analogue. Questions of principle, democracy, etc. they do not concern New Democracy. For the right, the electoral system was never a matter of principle. He brought the most incredible electoral systems to secure power from 1950 onwards. That's a common secret. But he insists. The impotence of SYRIZA - they say - lies in the fact that the New Democracy, with the simple analogue, will not be able to form a government after the elections, which claims to come soon and win them. Two cases of work, both wrong, as historically demonstrated. And well, the New Democracy. The smaller opposition parties, how do they consent to it? Perhaps we should look after the position of a leading member of the New Democracy, Mr Kumucasakos, of the spokesperson. At the beginning of July, Mr Kumucakos warns those who are ambiguous that those who collaborate - i.e. vote - will not have the alibi of ignorance. They will commit a conscious political crime and cannot be included in the European reformist forces. In other words, they will find the door of the conflict closed when the New Democracy comes into their kingdom. The New Democracy has blackmailed you politically, my dearest of the River and my dearest ones from the part of the Democratic Partnership, with the greatest political cynicism and you have been subjected to extortion. Rather, you are prepared to share the state with the so-called '4-2-1'. Dollars, ladies and gentlemen, it is the election bill, which is coming at the last minute and serves last-minute polls. This is honest, because it comes three years before the next elections, the 2019 elections, which we will then do and win. It is honest and can produce immediate results in the political field, because this situation cannot continue where we experience a unanimous and identical complaint from all sides. This only benefits the Golden Dawn. The simple analogue enables the parties that are going to cooperate, to present to Parliament their opposition and their counter-proposals to each subject. Thus, in this way, each party can create the conditions for post-election cooperation and consent, but with a report, in front of the people for their proposals. However, none of the opposition parties today want to be exposed to what they will do when it comes to ruling or running. No one and take care of it. That is what Mr Mitsotakis does, on the other hand, is doing: Announcing daily, rhetoric of the type that Zappeion reproducing 1, 2 and 3. Did you hear anything specific? You hear exactly the same word of Zappiah 1, 2 and 3. Mr Mitsotakis, however - unfortunately - will be defeated, as will his predecessor when the time comes. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u17	Me too, Mrs. Fotio. Mr. Theocharis has the floor for seven minutes. Then, ladies and gentlemen, we shall be following. Cavalellas, Beyalas Katsafados, Karagkounis, Katsis and Bakoyannis Theodora. Mr Apostle will intervene, as the second Minister, and we will continue with the rest of the speakers in turn. And I won't forget about you, Mr. Dannelly. Here, Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, what have we watched these days? The government's defeat in trying to gather two Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u19	Lost?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u20	Lost. Don't be afraid of words.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u21	He's not going to be voted on tomorrow, is he?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u22	What are we going to do? - the agreement with the Golden Dawn, the agreement they have entered into to rinse out statements on the odour and colourlessness of the vote. Truly, how much they look like the statements made by those who accept money from criminal activities, that "money does not smell"! And, of course, there was a collapse of the agreement when the two hundred required were not found. But there is also awkwardness among all the parties that this indulgence has caused, a debate that is of interest to a few, and certainly not to those who need us, not those in the new precariat, to unemployment, to unpaid work, to black work, to those who cannot regain control over their lives because they are drowning obligations and debts. That's what we need to think about today. What do they need? With one word, security stability. Are you offering this? Can you give them what is necessary to live? Oh, no. Now you're doing the worst you could do. You cause permanent political instability in the country with your proposal for a mere proportional and complete dismantling of the bonus. In short, you have been voted to bring in simple logic and since you cannot, you are simply analogous. Why are you doing this? The Greek people have to understand that today's simple analogue is accomplishing two goals for the government. The first objective is to remove the ability to rule without the consent of the SYRIZA. After you collapse socially, since there is no possibility of recovery and victory in the elections, at least no one else can govern. This shows the impossibility of the government today. It shows despair and highlights the strategic defeat you will suffer tomorrow. It marks the beginning of your end. Let each of the Members of the House have no doubt that this defeat is of Maximus today. But since March, when the period of the list is over, today's defeat will be yours, because then you will fight for the cross. Then, with the cross, every vote you've given in here will bore you and prevent your re-election. It also shows how the elections are approaching quickly. You cannot convince yourself that you brought electoral law three years before the planned elections. Finally, it shows that you have lost every moral barrier. The entire Greek people are watching with awe how you have sold out every beginning, every left thought that has ever passed through your mind to keep a chair and everything that it ensures you. The New Democracy tells you you're not left-wing. Wrong big, gentlemen of the New Democracy! There's not just one left. There's a lot of left. There is also the immoral Left, the one who, when caught, sold her companions, because the moral left has driven her out of the SYRIZA and she is out of Parliament today. [[Noise - Protests from the wing of SYRIZA]] Even so, the people who had no problem leaving their chair are gone. You do everything, as long as you stay in the chair. But even so, today you are above every limit. Today you want to destroy the chair as well, since you can't keep it. Today you are putting a bomb in Maximos as genuine squats so that it can't be built again in the country. Neither right nor left-wing parentheses, today you are making national parentheses. Your second goal is to blackmail creditors' support with the threat of chaos in the country. The lenders support you to pass the full deregulation of everything without a plan, logic or strategy. The new collective effort, which I have the honour of representing as its parliamentary member, the Democratic Responsibility, will remain consistent. This is not the time for personal compromises. This is not the time for personal strategies. It is time for the individual responsibility of the MP and collectively, of movement. It's the time of strategic thought and exit from the crisis. The democratic accountability will do today and always. With a sense of responsibility it will decide without considering its specific micro-party interest. We cannot agree on something that may have a temporary profit for us, but permanent damage to the country. You want to bring changes to the political system? The 'black' of money is in the large regions and especially in the second of Athens. The power of the channels and their owners is there. You break it? Oh, no. Why? Maybe to close the eye in the licence process and to those who have promised today that they will get a license? Is it accidental that you're bringing electoral law today, as long as this process is culminating? Didn't you? Do you increase the value of permits by not breaking the large constituencies today? What are you doing with internal party democracy in the parties? On the presumption that small parties are leading and, in any case, more leading parties than large ones. The complete abolition of the bonus favours these small parties. Do you establish obligations, such as the mandatory selection of candidates by internal party elections, such as the Democratic Responsibility, is doing with its statute? Is it not the very structure of the parties that brought us here to bankruptcy? Simple analogue serves faithful legislative representation. However, in parliamentary systems such as the election of ours, it is also a government. There democracy must enable the citizen to vote for anyone who wants the government, but also to prevent anyone who does not want to rule. For example, Austria was prevented from electing the extreme right-wing candidate in the government, even if it is temporarily. In the long term only one presidential system can bring about simple proportionalness in a safe manner, but this requires other kinds of changes and wide social alliances. Do you even make moves to stabilise the government to balance the change of simple analogy? Oh, no. Do you even reduce the "bad" bonus in half, so that we can support it by the healthy forces and put the Civic Opposition before its responsibilities? No, no, no, no, no, no. All this proves that you do not want more democracy, you do not want to solve the problems of the country, but you want to win only communications points. You want authority at all costs. In this game the Democratic Responsibility cannot follow you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u23	Well, the Parliamentary Representatives have all asked, apart from Mr Dannelly, to speak, as is self-evident, after the Minister. Mr Danellis, however, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, let me speak two or three speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u25	All right, two more colleagues will talk. Thank you. Therefore, Mr Dimitrios Kavalellas should come to Stepma from the Centroon Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Gentlemen, it was time for us to show our true face out there, in society, in the Greek citizen who wants his vote to count 100%, especially those difficult hours. It's time to identify our young people with their maturity. The democratic world is asking for a fully proportional democracy, without distortions, without the bonuses of corruption. What did we achieve with the fictitious governments? They were plastic, but they didn't deserve it, but they ruled. To do their job, we see them now, we collect them. "Decision and ordering" were, in any case, nominations. So you want twenty votes and, under the pretext of intensity, ten more votes from the small parties. The excuses, gentlemen. The SYRIZA - ANEL to what they did, in what they did, made them a little too much sea. Now, however, they are given an opportunity to show the democratic citizen that they have been left with some frustrations of sincerity and democracy. Of course we all know why they have now remembered the simple analogue. They want to put a brake on the upcoming New Democracy. They are trying to wreak the media now, somewhere I see it as 'double and received', but in any case. We are interested in sincere people. We don't care about micro-participatory purposes. Cooperation governments are asking the voter today. This has been demonstrated by his recent vote and by the older one. We want a real picture of the will of the people. Of course we understand the new republic that reacts. But what do the other smaller parties have to say? What false excuses will they give to their voters? Looks like they probably got on the right. They seem to hope for some post-election cooperation. They seem not to want to conflict with the interests that we all see and none of them see. How will they respond to their voters? You know, your vote counts for 0.6% of you in the small party, while for the New Democracy voter it counts for 1.4%? You know, Greek voter, why is that? Because we can't hit the anxieties, the interests and the system. And how will the JRC justify this? He has to find something. And he found it, regardless of whether it is anti-national, the abolition of 3%, we want to show Turkey as a special advisor here in this House. Nowadays, the faces are falling. Today the democratic conception of each party will be seen. You need to be careful, ladies and gentlemen, some of you in the next election race won't be here. And you won't be here because you will have given your place to a New Democracy candidate. Do you see my hand? They called me "Chipra's harp," and they got some dogs to eat me. Humanity began, of course. And by the way, there was no word of sympathy from any party representative. Anyway! I support the standing position - and my own and the Centrons' Union - which is merit at all levels, from the vote to the smallest. We are therefore voting in favour of the seventeenths, because our young people today are much more informed, more mature, more educated, above all unjustified and are entitled to send a message with their vote, whatever that may be. We are voting in favour of a mere proportional, unfavourable analogue, honest representation. We say 'yes' to the limit of 3% for national reasons, 'no' to governments of dictatorial perception, 'no' to theft of vote, 'yes' to cooperation, 'yes' to our youth. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a statement to make to this House. The Ministers of Finance, Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, Economy, Development and Tourism, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and Deputy Ministers of Finance submitted a draft law on 20-7-2016 on ‘Amendment of Law 4099/2012/A’ 250 (incorporation into national legislation of Directive 2014/91/EU/L257) and other provisions’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Today I remind you it's the Prophet Elias. Happy birthday to colleagues who celebrate or work and people, the men of police who guard us. To those who celebrate men and women, many years on behalf of the House. Let's go to the next colleague, Mr. Christos Beyala. Here, you have the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the current electoral system has many constitutional problems. Firstly, because it does not define as a condition for the acquisition of the bonus a minimum electoral rate. Secondly, because it introduces a disproportionate bonus of fifty additional seats, which completely distorts the principle of equivalence of vote and rebuts any idea of electoral justice. Thirdly, because, when implementing it, it distorts the principle of representation at the level of the individual regions, with, in particular, the case of the quadruple regions, which are very likely to be the first party, even with a percentage of around 30%, gaining all the seats corresponding to these regions. And fourthly, because by unfavourable regulation against the coalitions of partner parties, it is blatantly violating the principle of equal opportunities between the political parties. The current electoral system was established with a view to ensuring strong mono-group governments. The transformation from 2012 onwards of the party system from bipartisan to multi-party and the low or yet not very high percentage of the first party in the last three elections -18.85% in May 2012, 29.66% in the June 2012 elections, 36.34% in the January 2015 elections - has now made the bonus not only anti-constitutional, but also inappropriate for the purpose established, namely the acquisition of parliamentary self-responsibility. Under the new data of the party, the artificial overrepresentation of the first party serves only to render the party's position dominant in the procedures for forming a coalition government. However, this objective, which is to facilitate the formation of coalition governments, is better served by the system of mere analogy, which also ensures the relative homogeneity of coalition governments and thus government stability. Ladies and gentlemen of PASOK, are you in agreement with this or not? Obviously with your position, they find you opposing. This is a passage of the explanatory statement, but not of the explanatory statement to this law, but of a law that, as a proposal for a law, said: "Representation of political formations, amendment of electoral law, abolition of the first party electoral premium. Athens 3 June 2015. Proposed Members: Evangelos Venizelos, Arvanitides Giorgos, Generators Fofis, Gregorakos Leonidas, Drivelegas Giannis, Kegeroglou Vassilis, Koutsoukos Giannis, Kremastinos Dimitris, Konstantinopoulos Odysseas, Constantopoulos Dimitris, Loverdos Andreas, Scandalidis Kostas, Christophilopoulos Efes). Ladies and gentlemen, your explanatory statement is no different from that of today's bill that we are debating today and we will vote tomorrow. You have a sacred obligation to explain to your citizens and voters why this conversion, why you have led the PASOK to the tail of the New Democracy, and why you do not contribute in your positive view to this bill, to go to co-operation governments, which have been so long for us to do. Governments of cooperation, however, which come out of an election result with the vote and with the assistance of the Greek people, and not with the cooperation that will take place because they will discuss parties, but because that is what the Greek people will demand. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard a great deal from both the rapporteur of the New Democracy and her speakers. One thing is clear: the electoral law and the simple analogue that is being voted tomorrow creates new data in the political scene. You know that, you realise, since the vote on the political scene in the country and until the election date is completely different. That's what you're worried about. You are concerned that the simple analogue will, in any case, be implemented. You told us it wouldn't apply. But how will that be, ladies and gentlemen? Will you abolish the Constitution? If we assume that in the next election, as you want to believe, you are the first party and you will be elected, what is it that concerns you? That you would be a right-wing parentheses while you wanted to make SYRIZA a left-hand parentheses? That is clearly worries you, because you know that in the next elections, when they take place, if you win, you will not be able to raise the two-vote votes again. It's not about two hundred votes tomorrow. It is the introduction of mere analogous, whenever the Constitution defines. If there were indeed the consensus of the political forces that they would give, they would be well-off, they would be welcome to implement immediately. The Constitution, however, stipulates that this electoral law will be implemented in the coming elections. Ladies and gentlemen, I have also heard Mr Theocharis, who has called us for a chair. But how is it possible for one who is elected by a party to leave this party, but does not hand over the parliamentary seat, keep the chair? Others are the ones who are interested in chairs and others who operate differently. I would like to say that this bill does not mark the beginning of the end. It marks the end of a principle that the SYRIZA Government will move forward to make both the change of electoral law and the other structural changes that we will bring with subsequent bills. It is referred to as a great and serious argument that this electoral law will bring the rule of law. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, you always speak of power when you do not rule themselves. You have a state-of-the-art concept and a view that the country's rule is only when you rule. Understand it: Things have changed, seasons change, political forces change, political staff change. I'm gonna hang up with something last. Mr. Mitsotakis said that this law is a bomb on the foundations of democracy. What you are afraid of is whether it is a bomb on the foundations of the New Democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u29	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u30	What do you want, Mr. Kegeroglu? You want the floor on staff. Listen, ladies and gentlemen. I'm clear. I'm not gonna waste any time. We're still in the forty-two speakers, and they're talking up to a hundred and fifty-five on the list. You who spoke must respect this in order to make time. For the first and last time, because Mr. Beyalas made the mistake and mentioned your name, I will give you the floor. I would ask SYRIZA's colleagues not to mention names. You don't have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u31	There is in the Minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u32	'I am tabling the proposal for a law in the Minutes'. Did you have to read it? For a minute you have the floor, Mr Kegeroglu, and we're closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u33	Exactly ten seconds, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u34	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u35	My colleague read the rapporteur's report which states that the bonus is unconstitutional because it does not set a percentage above which it is given to contribute to the formation of a government. But that is exactly what we are proposing, more than 42% of the bonus is up to thirty seats, what Mr Kurublis said up to three weeks ago. We are calling again on both SYRIZA and the New Democracy to discuss this democratic proposal of proportional representation and to prevent intergovernmentalism. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u36	Mr President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Theochari, why do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u38	He didn't personally refer to me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u39	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u40	Didn't he mention it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u41	You have thirty seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u42	Thirty seconds. Mr. Beyalas should be more careful when he talks about chairs. I was elected by a cross, and I took with my sword the position as I myself, I suppose. He was elected with a party in which his Chief made a statement that independent MPs, MPs...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u43	What do you say...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u44	Mr. Curublis, speaks your colleague underneath.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Theocharis, Mr. President? When we asked questions about the lists in Germany, where was Mr. Theocharis? "He made them tiles" with everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u46	Mr. Kurubli, first sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u47	Mercy, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Curublis, don't yell at me when I'm in the Bureau. Sit down. I didn't give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u49	You know how much I respect you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u50	If this is a show of respect, imagine if you didn't respect me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u51	There are limits. When people talk in here, they know what they say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u52	Finish, Mr. Theochari. It's not just you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u53	What lists are these, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u54	We're done. Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u55	I cannot tolerate attacks by people who change parties just to keep the chairs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u56	Finish, Mr. Theochari.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u57	I cannot accept such attacks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u58	In any case, the Bureau has protected you. Thereafter, there is no talk of it. Shut up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u59	So, to hear and write again in the Minutes, I would like to say that the President of the Party with whom he was elected himself made statements on 5 January 2015 that when parliamentarians are independent, they must keep their seat and, if they do not, the people who say so have fascist and Stalinist views.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u60	Good. Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u61	That's what he said in his own words.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u62	We're done. We close the triad with Mr. Katsafados and then I give the floor to Mr. Danellis and then Mr. Danellis will take the floor, Mr. Karagunis, Mr. Katsis and Mrs. Bakoyannis. The meeting was fine, we started the names now. Here, Mr. Katsafandou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u63	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, while the country is literally marginal, the government does not consider that its immediate priority is to relaunch the economy, attract investment, declining taxation and reducing unemployment. And I'm not saying that, Mr. Pittsilas, your man who put you in the TIAD, who a few days ago smashed the three well-known ministers, who with tear statements one take back and one go back ahead with the reforms and the demilitarisations that they have asked for. For the government, therefore, it is a priority to change the electoral law, in order to prevent the formation of the next governments, to create a dissolutionary scene, which will refer to a protracted period of political instability and instability. In fact, Mr Tsipras has already discounted his defeat in the next election, whenever they are. That's why he brings the electoral law in the summer. Because it is not just afraid, it is certain that the four years will not be exhausted, because the strengths of the country, the citizens and the real economy will simply be exhausted. The Prime Minister obviously believes that the change of electoral law can work and disorientately, to distract people from the existing and major problems created by the destructive eighteen months of his administration. You are using, ladies and gentlemen of the government, as a argument that mere proportionality is a proper request and that you remain faithful to your election commitments. It seems, however, that you have a very selective memory of what it has to do with your commitments to the Greek people, because I do not think your commitment was to abolish the EASA, increase HISPIA, increase VAT and all the tax rates and reduce wages and pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, never had a Prime Minister so much less responsibility, a Prime Minister who is mainly concerned about his personal survival. To ensure it, and before it makes this majestic precipitation, we have reached the point that the banks are closed, that we dissolve the banking system, that we load the country with a painful and heavy third memorandum and, of course, all this high cost of this eternal negotiation is paid by all Greek citizens. Today, this Prime Minister, this government, plays its change. It brings an electoral law based only on how it will prevent the New Democracy from becoming a government, but at the same time leading the country to a dead end. But you will not be able to do so, since the heavy political climate for the government is irreversible. The country paid too much for the illusions, ideas and conscious lies of the Left. One of them - perhaps the last one that is being attempted - is to try the simple analogues, a simple analogue that does not apply to any other country in Europe, where a dominant structural element of any electoral law is the possibility of forming a coherent and sustainable government. For the Prime Minister, however, he must be an insolence and chaos, along with populism, since he is condensing this with the possibility of the young people who are seventeen years old. We are not actually talking about seventeen, but about young people who have completed the sixteenth year of their age. But why would you give the right to vote on the young people who are 16 and not those who are 15 and 14 years old? You call for the democratic views of young people to be strengthened by voting for the sixteen. So why don't you also strengthen the democratic opinions of the fifteen, giving them the right to vote? However, since, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the time limit for giving the right to vote is linked to the age limit set by the urban and criminal code, I would like to know if you will also change the age limit. Already Mr. Kammens made the first relant, he talked about the possibility that young people should have a driving licence in their seventeen years. Ladies and gentlemen, all this is nothing but an extremist appearance of a political fiction of the worst kind. You who are allegedly cut off for voting rights in the sixteen, why are you denying the right to vote on young people who left Greece seeking better luck? Why refuse Greeks abroad to vote at their home, as is happening in all other European countries? You who are defending this electoral law and you have done everything, every transaction of this kind, to gather the two hundred votes, so that it would apply immediately, can you tell us what kind of government would be formed by the results of the elections in January and September of '15s? Because if the electoral law that you are bringing now were to apply to form a government in September, four parties would have to cooperate. And true, then, who would you cooperate with, with Golden Dawn, with the traitors and pilgrims of the New Democracy and PASOK, or would you take the country back to elections? Ladies and gentlemen, an electoral law is always tabled in a deadly political time and is not being drafted in the light of the interest of the government in the elections that are to be held. Essential elements that must have been proportionate and practicability. But you, unfortunately, have turned the debate on the electoral law into an Oriental bazaar. All you want is to keep the New Democracy from going up to the government. We could discuss the percentage limit and bonus of seats for the first party. We could discuss the right to vote on Greeks abroad, to partition the large electoral districts. But Mr. Tsipras didn't want and he doesn't want to have a debate on all of this. It gives citizenship and vote to immigrants, but denies the right to vote to the Greeks abroad, takes the bonus of the fifty seats himself and forms a government twice, but when he has no hope to be the first party he remembers the simple analogue. The Minister himself, Mr Kourublis, speaking on May 16 at a private television station, said that if we establish the simple analogue country, the country will never be governed. On the same show, he had spoken of a decrease and not of the abolition of the bonus in thirty seats and the break-up of Second Athens in regions that will have up to ten MPs. Of course, none of this happened. I would stress all this, ladies and gentlemen, in order to show the effort to trade, which the government has attempted to do and the cutting-up, in which it has served on various provisions of the electoral law, in order to find the magic number of the two hundred Members of Parliament. But whatever you do, ladies and gentlemen, you will not avoid the citizens' crisis. Such a debate should modernise the political scene, lead to new roads, make the parties more mature and lead them to programming conferences, which would determine the course and development of politics according to the needs of the place. Unfortunately, however, your lust to remain key players, even when your people turn your back after the next elections, has led you to this abortion of electoral law, which you bring indifferent to the insolence and dangers that will create in the country and unfortunately lead this debate once again to a dead end.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u64	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u65	I shall conclude, Mr President. However, the country, ladies and gentlemen, cannot come to a state of instability. And the next government's priority will be an open dialogue with both society and with all the parties to abolish this electoral law and to create a new one that ensures proportionality, but above all the formation of sustainable governments, which will provide stability and security for citizens and the country. This is the commitment of the New Democracy in parallel with the condemnation of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u66	Mr. Dannelis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u67	What happened now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u68	Mr Dannelis intervenes as a parliamentary representative who does not want to speak after the Minister. Immediately afterwards, the trinity we talked about will follow. Here you go, Mr. Danielle.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, today's Greek day, forty-two years from the Turkish invasion. This crime, however, does not make us overlook and forget the crime that had precedented and which allowed the implementation of this national crime, namely the overthrow of President Makario and Cypriot democracy from the Greek junta five days ago. We don't forget to never live again. Election law, ladies and gentlemen, is not only a tool for the formation of parliamentary relations and the election of governments. It is also a tool for the formation of the political system, a tool for the formation of relations between parties, as well as for relations between parties and civil society. I fear that today your government, Ministers, is losing a historic opportunity. He loses the opportunity to credit for the lawmaking of an electoral law that would ensure the country's rulership in a fairer and more proportionate manner. I fear very much that the way in which you bring to institutionalise a mere proportionality is, above all, unfair to the mere analogy and the philosophy of mere analogy. You have - and you still have - the opportunity to go ahead with the introduction of a law which would lead to the removal of multiple pathogens that characterise the functioning of our political system and the removal of pathogens that characterize and relations between the parties, as I said just before and between the parties and society. They are pathogens with which the Left has always clashed and which you claim to be your privileged field of action. How, in your electoral law, do you treat black political money, media candidates' dependence, their dependence on publishers and canalarchs? How do you strengthen the independence of the candidates from any possible unfair transaction, since you do nothing to limit electoral expenditure? You dare not even touch the monstrous regions of Athens and Thessaloniki or Attica. How do you deal with the customer relationships that have increased disproportionately from the battles of the cross preference, which is the foundation stone of interlocutory, as it is a decisive factor in customer relations? The river, far from toys of impression, in time, since last December, submitted to the public debate a comprehensive proposal that was the fruit of a different philosophy. In the electoral system we have proposed, we aim to create a new relationship between citizens and politics. We are dealing with the totalitarian pathogenesity of the 50 seats for the first party, because we consider that it strengthens the extortionist dilemmas and in an unacceptable way distorts the principle of proportionality. We are proposing a much smaller bonus in the first party or in the party coalition to ensure the governance of the place, without compelling the first party to make the blackmailing of small opportunities or individual parliamentarians nor jeopardise the government's shape of cancellation, as a matter of urgency. We have proposed the creation of a hundred and fifty single-bedded regions where, from a single list, the citizen could choose the perfect one and in the second round would vote for his choice party in his wider multi-storey region. We were talking about seven such regions, and here without a cross of preference, since the order of ranking would be set open to society, democratic, participatory processes, restoring lost, because of non-confidence, a relationship between parties - citizens. You are missing the opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, to shape and promote the democratic reform and the development of the political system, as well as the relationship between the parties, but also between the parties and society. We in the Potami, wanting to be constructive in today's bill, have tabled three amendments. We think that both of them have a significant improvement in the bill. The third, of course, is contrary to the philosophy of your bill. I'm referring first to two. As you have said, "you want to play an active part in a group of citizens that feels blocked and not expressed by the representative institutions, including Parliament, so that it channels its dissatisfaction into anti-social and anti-political outlets" and you refer to the young people of the seventeen years. Very nice. To achieve this, then, you say that you are institutionalizing the vote at seventeen. Obviously, we are not opposed. But that also applies today. In accepting our amendment, as we have said, Mr Minister, it is ensured that the sixteen will not be voted, as the actual calculation method for the completion of the seventeen is abolished. In particular, we propose the abolition of paragraph 2 of Article 4 of Presidential Decree 26/2012, which considers on 1 January as the date of birth of all those who were born in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u70	How else? Will we fill out the polls every week, Mr. Dannelly?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u71	Oh, no. But, Minister, you can predict. Because as you anticipate today...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u72	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u73	Then leave it as it is in eighteen, where on 1 January it is considered the seventeen...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u74	Eighteen and seventeen. That's why the New Democracy says it's not sixteen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u75	You won't solve it by speaking from a microphone. Make your location.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u76	But I do not think you believe that a teenager in his sixteen, who, according to criminal and civil law, lacks creditworthiness, should have the right to vote. Like also, I don't imagine that any of us want to become the school theatre...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u77	It's been since 1981...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u78	Mr Dannelly, you are addressing the Chamber and not Mr Balafas. Mr. Balafa, calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u79	We know very well who will run to make use of such experience. You don't want it, as none of us want it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u80	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u81	Mr. Katsotis, please calm down. Go on, Mr. Dannelly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u82	Mr Colleague, you can see what theatre is opening and who will want to make use of this opportunity in schools, which are already doing where they can. Furthermore, in the sense of non-exclusion: as we say, young people are not excluded, so accept our other amendment, which is in this very logic for those who are not entitled to vote, while Greeks of creation, are Greeks who are commonly professed to have chosen because of the conditions of being outside Greece and yet still written in the country's polls.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u83	When the time comes. Don't be in a hurry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u84	Good. I wish you'd accept it. I wish you could bring such an improvement amendment or accept our amendment. And because the era of party charterers has fortunately passed away, let us correct this negligence, because we may exclude young Greek scientists from the economic life of the country, but let us not exclude them from politics. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, do not go beyond the fact that politics is not planned or implemented in vacant but within specific political, social, economic and historical circumstances. Today the simple analogue you are proposing is dangerous for the country, since mathematically it leads to a complete weakness of forming a viable government. It is obvious to this option that you are only driven by the demographic findings in order to maintain a leading role in forming a government, even if when elections are held, you are coming to a second party. What unspeakable Greek today, ladies and gentlemen, can he say that in this very troubled neighborhood can the country withstand even one day's insolence? Do we have this luxury? Also, what good Greek thinks that the two big parties could collide in a large coalition when the bisecting speech and conflicting logic distinguishes the policies of both parties? I wish the circumstances were different. Let us mature them, because if the law you propose in September were to apply, then we would only have a government with the coup of a New Democracy and a SYRIZA. How realistic do you see that? Well, that's nice, but you can see it realistic? Spain's insolence after second elections despite the enormous differences in the functioning of its political system with our own, must seriously concern us. These micro-participatory methods create an additional gap between society and the political system. If you really are interested in simply analogous, which requires relationships of trust between the parties, why do you not invest in this direction? You haven't done it until today. Why don't you start investing in the direction of regaining trust? Are you both prepared for a large government mechanism in Germany's example? Of course, no unscrupulous comparisons are made with the federally structured Belgium, which also has an incomparable public administration. Public administration and regional structures, which in other circumstances, back in the 1970s and 1980s, had saved from the collapse in Italy when the political system had been liquidated. All these realities are not compared to ours. Today, with everything that distinguishes public life, with all the threats that we have in all areas from economy to security, the first thing is to build the conditions of confidence, because we should have realised that the absolute lack of trust between the parties is the main factor in our stay in the memoranda and in the prolonged crisis. We cannot ask citizens to trust the political system when the political system continues its outdated micro-party games. Simple analogue requires an advanced culture of understanding and cooperation. Furthermore, it presupposes large reserves of confidence and these at the moment, unfortunately, do not exist. I do not understand how you consider it permissible in these circumstances to take such risks and such precarious effects. We, the river, clearly want a fairer and more proportional electoral system. The 'no' that we say in the liquidation of the political scene through the mere analogy does not mean 'yes' to the maintenance of the deformative spiral bonus of the fifty seats. We're against the over-advanced analogue. That is why we tabled an amendment - it is our third amendment - which ensures a small escalating bonus in the first party, depending on its percentage, which enables the creation of stable governments and the first reason in the party that the Greek people each time chooses as the first. Look at her. The obsession of the New Democracy, on the other hand, in the existing deformative electoral law reveals its own self-interest because of the positive demographic findings for it. It defends, thus, a law that creates a body of distortions. Of course, New Democracy is stable in its view that, over time, as a conservative party, it had electoral laws for the electoral system. The law of Pavlopoulou, the defendant, manifestly plunders the second party. The introduction of 17%, I would remind you, for entry into the second division from the late Kostantinos Karamanlis in 1977, and the three-fascist systems back in the 1950s and 60s were the creations of the conservative party. However, contrary to what its current leader, who, of course, wishes to achieve in institutional modernization, which he believes and attempts, we see that today's attitude, the current New Democracy's choice is inconsistent with this attempt to modernise and, of course, hides a political cynicism and micro-participatory targets, which are equivalent to those of the government, just what is supposed to be fighting. However, I think everyone should realise that the Greek people no longer desire self-powered governments. All election results and popular results show this for four years. If the Greek people did not, ladies and gentlemen, give SYRIZA self-reliance, when he extorted the illusion of inaccurate hope and national illusions, and when he promised everything to everyone, it is certain that no party will take the self-reliance through the crisis. The governments of cooperation, the governments of emergency have become governments of regularity. We also see it everywhere in Europe. We must work on the sustainable cooperation governments rather than on an incomplete proposal with unfinished amendments, which ultimately reflect fears and hopes of others in the face of the demographic findings. The place needs consent, ladies and gentlemen. The further fragmentation of the political system will further increase already economic and investment insecurity. We cannot rely on governments that make up a multitude of unconnected parties, on governments that have no ideological relevance or common philosophy or common objectives, but are accompanied by opportunistic and opportunistic, limited to ineffective minimums of common illegality. The lost trust fund must be immediately regained. However, this requires sincereness and removal from gossip and selfishness. Today, after the temptation to take account of the vote on the Golden Dawn has ceased, do a great deal of overcoming, as much as that sounds heretic and unorthodox, Minister. Withdraw the bill. Go ahead, taking advantage of all the considerations and proposals put forward and still to be tabled, opening up a real dialogue with the other parties. So it will seem who wants the reform of the political system, but also who are seeking with temporary micro-partnership benefits its short-term exploitation. Connect your government period to a large hygienistic intersection that will change the relationships of the political system, as well as relations between the political system and society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u85	Mr Constantine Karagkounis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President. In the last seven years I have been a Member, I have taken part in many debates, but I have the impression that the debate on this bill, in my view, has characteristics of political surrealism. I'll explain it later. To conclude with the question of mere analogy, let me say that clearly ideologically and politically in New Democracy we do not believe in a system that has been tested, has led to tragic results, not just intergovernmentalism, but also, in addition to what you say, SYRIZA gentlemen, the mere analogue has been shown to create umbilical cord with complexity and corruption. And you have nothing but to see how the post-war Italian system of governments in the '45s and '50s collapsed, which actually devoured a kletonian democracy whose people are still in Tunisia today. But this is about politics. But here, I have the impression that it is something quite different. Here, science must probably intervene. Because the popular government of the 'first time left', which has not completed one more year in governance - that is to say, you are still on the honeymoon of your political course - has found with the simple analogue - so many say and analyse - a way to keep things. There is no doubt that this is the intention of SYRIZA. I address the good colleagues of SYRIZA: You obviously live on another planet. Although many of you in your contacts with the world - those who are still able to make them - should have understood that no electoral system, proportional or incompatible, Mr Triantafyllidis, simple or complex, horizontal or vertical, is going to change a very specific political reality, which is that SYRIZA has already begun since the beginning of the four-year period. In simple terms, from the 3% that started, 3% will get back to it. Do you know why? Because the financial results of the third memorandum and the consequences of psalmology have not yet been unfolded and so far have only been perceived by small categories of citizens. The public dividends, he said, and the beneficiaries of the ESS have already felt, what it means, "the first time left". But soon the tax burden, ladies and gentlemen, will be touched by every Greek. Next year in the spring, the real economy will have kneeled. And the collapse of public revenues, which will be visible from December, will have led the last Greek to realize that the "first time left" will not save it any analogue system, no mobs, no restrictions on free television, no declarations of hatred, as are often commonly used to eviscerate government officials. In a short time, in Greece now, the followers of Mr. Tsipras will be foreign solidarity, Mr. Karanikas and some migrants...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u87	And the majority of our people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u88	... for which the "multiple" living conditions in the Greek are, of course, an improvement compared to what was happening in Kabul. However, because, for all the others, the Greece of Mr. Tsipras will be the nadir of things, despite the profound analysis of the press that Mr. Tsipras seeks to stay - and indeed as a regime - in politics, I believe that the main priority will be to leave. That is why I think the debate on the electoral system is surreal. And since I from this Step I usually challenge myself and put what I say in the time crisis, I predict that the demographic collapse of SYRIZA, as it will be recorded in the coming months, will restore the fateful party that governs us in its historical sizes. And no praise, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Siomple will be enough to bring back those for whom the famous phrase of George Papandreou will be completely applicable, 'the ready-to-be'. Here we go, and we'll see. Cologne. We are voting against the proposal for political and ideological reasons because we do not believe in the simple analogue. In practical terms, however, either the House votes in the same way or because, as I said to you, no matter what happens in Greece, I predict - and I shall be judged on this - that SYRIZA will return from the point of view of percentages in the line and not of a second party in the list of political parties, I think that the debate we are having today is, in the end, a nationally dangerous diversion and nothing more. Your political destiny, gentlemen of SYRIZA, is specified. Because in politics, all things are judged by the result. And the result is well known. You took a country on a recovery course and broke it. That's the reality. The fact that you believe a few months after the election that the problem is how voting will be distributed on the basis of the electoral system shows that you are simply approaching desperation. The issue that should concern you, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, is not how the votes will be distributed, but whether there will be votes. And I'm very afraid that in your case, you'll be missing the politically prestigious and all that will accompany you to your long political night will be that in the end your Chief marched to the China Wall, in short, "Marco Polo's Travels", fairy tales for children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u89	My colleague from SYRIZA, Mr. Marios Katsis, has the floor. [[Noise in the Chamber]] It's 15.20 o'clock, and I see that you're in a good mood, ladies! Mr. Katsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Craigne, you're sewing a suit, aren't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u91	It's sewn from old!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u92	It'll show up along the way, because you haven't learned any of the mistakes of the past. But you keep sewing! It's okay. I have to say to the House that I feel very proud to be involved in a debate that at its heart has the enlargement and the best imprint of the democratic will of our people. The debate that is taking place today and the vote that will follow is historic and goes beyond the limits of the parliamentary and governmental present. The proportionality of the electoral system is a permanent position of the Left and the progressive forces. Our position was not born today. It is engraved within our historical course and expressed within it. After all, the Prime Minister himself has committed himself to this post immediately after the elections. The New Democracy and part of the Opposition accuses us of games with election law. I am really sorry, because on such a serious issue arguments fall at that level. But, once again, you are judging the odds of your own. Because you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and of PASOK, have been slapping with the electoral law, as it has done to you every time, and the result of this scaffolding is the current system, which is the enhanced analogy and indeed with a bonus of forty seats at the beginning and fifty later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u93	With bonuses, aren't you here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u94	That's why you've become government!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u95	So you don't understand democracy? You've done that scalp! [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr President, please protect me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u96	Calm down, please. Mr. Cassie, don't ask questions from there, but in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u97	Mr President, that is not the case! We're sitting quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u98	You came after dinner, and you're vibrant! Please calm down. Don't ruin our meeting. We're doing great!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u99	Do you not recognise the distortion of the popular verdict at the level of representation and that this leads to the non-existence of the entire political system in the eyes of the citizens, who consider it suspicious and directly that the game is politically established? In the end, do you not recognise that elections in urban democracies are preferable to representation and legislative power directly by the people, while the creation of the government in constitutional, so also in executive power comes from the House of Representatives? Don't you know that? Obviously you know it, but you do not want to strengthen the people's will. You are not comfortable with the deepening of democracy. You prefer governments that result from safe TV windows and not from the popular pure verdict.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u100	Why don't you break the big districts, then?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u101	I'll answer you when the time comes. You know very well that the vast majority of citizens, even those who are actively involved in your own political spaces, think that the 50 seats bonus is an abstraction in their democratic expression and yet you are deaf. But our fellow citizens see and judge. We hear from the Qualified Opposition that with the abolition of bonus there can be no stable governments. So, can there not be stable governments with the fictitious reinforcement of the bonus, which ultimately reflect the will of the electorate and can with the frustrated imprint of the popular verdict, such as the Papademos government, which had no social footprint? Let's be serious! Our political system is not only at risk from the abolition of the bonus, but I think it will be strengthened. With the new conditions that will create political dialogue, it will mature. The planning positions of the parties - especially the small ones - will become clearer and the citizens who are now conscious of the electoral process will have a very strong incentive to actively engage in political decisions. Just proportionally, therefore, it will be a exercise of political responsibility, a process of mature the electorate, which will gradually be adapted to the new electoral law, feeling that their vote counts as much as the rest. The arguments for defending the current electoral system are at the moment. Unfortunately, all they show is your commitment to a political system for a few and selected, a system that reproduces shielded against the will of the people. We, ladies and gentlemen, have come to power not to make it a privileged shop, but to strengthen popular sovereignty and the active involvement of citizens. The introduction of a mere analogous is not, as you are saying, conscientiously, but is part of a context of deepening democracy and restoring the public about the legal sense with the introduction of important modalities that this government is doing. And I would like to list them: First section is the bill for the colonisation of public administration, the restoration of human rights, such as the acquisition of citizenship of second-generation migrants and the extension of the cohabitation agreement, the restoration of transparency in the broadcasting landscape with the licensing of channels that are in progress, but also equal tax treatment, by controlling the big-growers you have covered. Also, a section is the bill that is in consultation and which concerns mobility, which leaves out routing and customer logic, a model that you have taught and established. At a time when democracy is being affected everywhere in the world and a crisis is taking place, it is important in the country in which democratic changes have been born, gradually, with a front, however, the release from the tough comitology in which you have ensnared us. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to dwell on this point and on the adoption of the vote for the seventeen years introduced by this draft law. The fact that we will enable these young people to participate in the electoral process I think they will press and reform the political positions of the youth parties so that they are also more targeted and more substantial. At a time when the new generation is affected by the crisis and experiences the exclusion that comes from it, it is very important that it can express its decisions on its future, a future that belongs to it. These young people already have obligations within society and accept the impact of the state's decisions. In this generation we must show confidence. It is mature, it is capable of being involved in democratic processes. Finally, I would like to comment briefly on the attitude of the parties opposed to the bill. We are being blamed by the New Democracy for the time in which we are tabling the simple analogues, that is to say that we are now bringing it to our attention. But any time we brought it, you'd find corresponding objections. If we did this in the first seven months - or even a little later - you would say that because we cannot close an agreement or an assessment, we are escaping from our responsibilities and throwing the country on the rocks. If we brought her later, you'd say we're supposed to do it because the elections are coming. The truth is, however, that you are afraid of the unfaithful judgment of the citizens. The Democratic Alliance has been unrealisticly exposed. Three times it has changed its mind on the simple analogue, and finally it ended up where we have been accustomed to in recent years, to be a tail of the New Democracy once again, voting against itself last year with a corresponding proposal for a law. The JRC insists on its logic 'all or nothing'. I have the political assessment - and it is my personal assessment - that it insists that 3% should be abolished so that the responsibility for forming a government will never be put on top of it, but that another new entrant should alternatively do so. And I want to say one last thing. You also blamed us for a Golden Dawn collegiate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u102	Please, finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u103	I shall conclude, Mr President. The attitude of the Golden Dawn to abstain, just as you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, on the order of the offshore "sitting you." Suppose, perhaps, randomly activated - perhaps - channels of communication from the Samara era that hold with executives and secret conversations with Members of the Golden Dawn? Watch your arguments because they're spinning boomerang. In conclusion, Mr President, we understand this bill as a historic moment for the country and the left against neoliberal totalitarianism to oppose more democracy. We are voting in favour and we support with all our forces the draft law as a necessary progressive institutional change. I am convinced that, regardless of the result of the vote, the simple analogue will be applied and the concept was understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u104	After twelve male colleagues and a colleague of mine, Mrs Bakoyannis Theodora has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, George Papandreou, the Old man of the Republic, said to younger colleagues: it is a good thing, my dear children, to avoid rhetoric questions because you sometimes get an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u106	We're waiting for the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u107	I am saying this to the fullest contributor, who with great enthusiasm has supported the position for the simple analogue and used SYRIZA's old vocabulary of neoliberalism and so on. You do not understand somewhere, Mr Colleague, what is going on around you, because now this argument of neoliberalism cannot apply to SYRIZA, after the economic policy pursued by your government. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the electoral law has taken place in this House many times, others successfully and others with failure. I'm not here to apologize for the '50s, as Mrs. Fotio told us. I wasn't born in '50 either. I must say, however, that the constitutional legislature, as well as the last electoral law, provided for something that urged Parliament to decide in a way that was consensually. What do I mean by that? I mean that the electoral law applies to the post-elections parliament - it was a good decision, because it was stopping the games on the eve of elections - but also the constitutional legislature with the numbers it calls for, at least in terms of democracy, trying to convince the parliaments that it needed greater consent to such decisions. And that really should have been. There is a change in the electoral law, which comes completely unprepared and fragmented. I imagine you will agree with me that it is not the product of a serious dialogue on three dates that the Prime Minister made with some leaders, in the hope of gathering some votes. And if this political system were to come out of this seven-year crisis, it would have to give an answer to the representation crisis that the country is experiencing. I, therefore, really believe that we have a crisis of representation and a serious and profound one, and we should give the Greek people some answers about it. How are we going to give them to you, ladies and gentlemen? What's the problem right now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u108	Politics.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u109	The problem is political. We agree. If, then, the problem is political, should we not sit around a table and sit down and see what it really is to blame and what results are we going to make? Is it clear and sure that if this law were to happen - which will not be done, you will suffer a parliamentary defeat and OK, we will go further - you believe seriously within you having experienced what you have experienced in this Chamber lately, in recent months, that the country could ever be governed by four parties, where each party's leader would try to blackmail the Prime Minister for alpha or beta or gamma? Do you really think so, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u110	You want one party.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u111	Leave the patriotic rhetoric now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u112	You want one party.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u113	No, I don't believe in one-party and don't interrupt me. I know I'm upsetting you. It's hard to try and answer arguments. In my opinion, however, it could not stand. But should we give a response to the policy of black money? Yeah. Did we all agree that one of the major problems was the big regions? Yeah. Did you bring it? Oh, no. Why didn't you bring it? Why did you not hear some proposals which come and which you are told to be haunted for the vote of the homosexuals? Why? Why are you dogmatic against the homosexuals so you don't want to vote? I can't believe it. Why do you think consulates are incompetent? Did Mr. Kotzias tell you that consulates can't run elections? I don't even believe that. So, what is the deepest reason why you deny the possibility for Greek citizens, who are interested in Greece, to vote and who is a bright part of Greek society outside? Do you want to talk about the German system? I personally support this because I believe that the one-sided region is indeed a region where the Member comes in direct contact with his people, without intermediaries, without the media and so on. I have personally supported it. Shouldn't we be able to talk about it in this Chamber? Oh, no. Why didn't you, ladies and gentlemen? The reality is, unfortunately, what all your colleagues have told you so far and you have done so, you have not hidden it. You didn't try to say anything else. You said 'The New Democracy is coming, we must stop it from ruling', finally. That's the point. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no one - believe me, I am in this Chamber - an electoral system that can stop the will of the Greek people. You can do whatever you want. Now you won't do it anyway. But you can do whatever you want, but you will not succeed, because the Greek people have taken their own conclusions. You know it, too, we know it. What are we gonna do? I want to be clear. We will take the country's mandate on the next day when the New Democracy, which is allowed to do so, will have a real and serious dialogue with all the political forces, so that we can actually have an electoral system that has the best proportional representation, but also ensure rulership in the country. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] We are not illusions, ladies and gentlemen, nor fraud. We know very well where we live, what our country is, what the problems we have in our neighborhood are. We know very well that the highest interest in the Greek people is to be governed and, in order to be governed, the electoral system must allow it to be allowed by governments which have made a programme agreement. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, just one more minute to ask. I can't stand saying it. I was listening to you, Mr Colleague, this morning on television where you were talking about programming agreements. I'm a fan of the programming agreement. I really believe that the parties, when they cooperate, must have agreed on the main lines of government cooperation. That's what I think. But what is the reality, ladies and gentlemen? Did you make a program deal with the ANLLs? What level and the subject? From the parades to the issue of Skopje you disagree. Even in foreign policy issues you disagree. You disagree whether you should go to Skopje in the first or second ways. You have agreed only in the prefecture of power. But this message the Greek people know about it and that will be the main reason why they will actually send you a message and tell you "go to good" because nothing of the principles and values you have been saying for so long, you do not actually serve. That is why the responsibility of the country's governance will take away those powers that may have been difficult, but at least they had the courage to tell the Greek people truths. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u114	The Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr Apostleu has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u115	Mrs Bakoyannis, for the principles and values we serve, we had three parallel rewards from the Greek people. Don't forget that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u116	"You've got"! Extreme!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, seven different electoral laws were used from post-Macedonia and then until last year's elections. Their main axe and their main logic was the enhanced analogy, i.e. in simple words, a logic of the frustration of the people's will. That was the enhanced analog that you've brought in so many years. In the political and electoral turbulences of the two - ever - strong parties, PASOK and New Democracy, a laudable twisted proposal was being worked on every time on how, by falsifying the will of the people, the polls would get out of the monopartite governments. That was, Mrs. Bakoyannis, a representative crisis. It was all you were interested in. Dialogue, cooperation, consultation between parties was out of the agenda. Party bipolarism solved and tied up without giving account to anyone. The so - called Romance model of government of self - power proved to be a definite pussy. The stable, monolithic and unilateral governments have led to the collapse of the economy, the memorials and, unfortunately, the suffocating status of our surveillance. Together, of course, they were fascinated by the collapse and the pioneers, PASOK and New Democracy. Over the years, the wider Left - our Left, if you like - had tabled its position on the need for simple proportionalness, as the only democratic electoral system that respects the people's will and attributes the will of the citizens. Caesar's Caesar's! Ladies and gentlemen, in the political and programming speech of our Left, simple proportionalness was a fundamental objective of claiming, as far as the institutional framework for the functioning of democracy was concerned, and its flag was not even sent at a time. Of course, it was a voice of oxen in the wilderness, because PASOK and New Democracy did not deal with the views of politically insignificant entities. But, ladies and gentlemen, things change and life makes its circles. Yesterday's insignificant left protest is government today. New Democracy is the shadow of itself and PASOK in the clinical condition that you all know. The old one-party villas have been erased from the political map. The political environment has changed, as has the Greek citizens, with the social, economic and political experience they have experienced and especially in the last five years, they are no longer chewing in tricks, dilemmas and blackmails. The two recent elections and the referendum are enough for testimonies. It is therefore the moment for the old political world to learn from the old and adapt to the new ones. And as the popular proverb says: "Let her bride what you knew. As you have found." And that's what you're obliged to adapt. In less than a year, therefore, in relation to the last elections, the government, consistent with its commitments and principles, brings the most proportional electoral law to Greek history. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the argument that this law will strengthen the impossibility of forming self-sufficient governments and will lead to political instability. But who is intelligent politically still insisting that political stability can exist solely from the self-responsibility that has now been overcome by realities? The partnerships are gone? They do not see that citizens, in any way addressing the civilian staff, say: 'Cooperation. Find them, finally'? [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Our country's political relief calls for a consensus of parties and factions, as the path of the one-party governments has been definitively closed. The demand for our society is the compositions, the alliances, and not the reproach and the screaming. We have a responsibility to take the country forward, to bring flexibility to economic and social life. We therefore have to restore the relationship between the political system and society, and this can involve a fair and representative electoral system, such as what SYRIZA - ANEL is bringing you today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u118	We continue with the list of speakers. Mr Maximos Charakopoulos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Apostle, you spoke of partnership. Did you not get to know and cooperate with your half party, which you pushed out of the lists, could you not contact Mr. Lafazani and Mrs. Konstantopoulou and will you work with four other parties if the simple analogue is voted on? Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law on electoral law is another example of the government's irresponsibility and political opportunism. It confirms that its decisions are expelled solely on the basis of a single criterion of the narrow party interest. It ignores the vital requirement for political stability to be restored to the economy. What it attempts is a political salad mortale for the country, based only on the political survival of the shape, which is in power and which defied the Greek people's vote with monstrous lies and hollow promises. Thus, completely untimely, while the country experiences the tragic consequences of the turbulence in 2015, which resulted in millions of our fellow citizens suffering from overtaxation, thousands of businesses putting a padlock and pensioners looking at their pensions scissors, the government suddenly remembered the electoral law. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, it is clear that the government is in this way attempting to prove its leftlessness and does not hesitate to stumble with the Minister of the Interior, Mr Kurubli, who stated that simply proportionally leads to power. With "cheese" the simple analogue, after using without political remorse the bonus of the fifty seats, when he abolished for the sake of his components, SYRIZA is now trying to drag the opposition to his dance. So we have a government that fishes in all waters, even in the blurs of the Golden Dawn, as it appears for SYRIZA’s leadership that the cause justifies the means. Only the dice's backwards! Your purpose was one: New Democracy cannot form a government in the forthcoming elections, because Maximus' occupants realise that Mr. Tsipras' bat bone lost his magical power. In the face of the orchestra of the problems and the universal depreciation by the citizens, the government is preparing its forthcoming fall, hence its intention of going through the bill in the middle of the summer, so the unbelievable bazaar, so that it can achieve the sought two hundred votes, a process that further benefits the institutions and the political world of the country. It is characteristic that Petrolakis' s sketch at "KATHMERINI", which portrays the Prime Minister at Maximos, is addressed to a Member of Parliament in order to convince him to vote for the electoral law and to say: "Specially for you, the electoral law will contain an amendment that will provide for new hair genius with spectacular results"! I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Maximos Charakopoulos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned sketch, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, these are of course fine letters for SYRIZA. Here, it is indifferent to the almost certain power that the inability to form a stable government will cause. What if we go back to 1989-1990, where with the Koutsogiorgas law, we were constantly in the electoral process to form a government! What if we are in danger of being like Italy some years ago, which has implemented a system proportional to what you bring in and seen and had to change it? What if we need as oxygen the climate of political stability to bring foreign investments to the fore in order for the economy to move forward? Because if your proposal, which is synonymous with government, is passed, we will not find an investor either with the chili! Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal to change the electoral law proposed by the government is essentially against the sacrifices that the Greek people have made so far to get out of the crisis. Let there be no illusions. Multi-party governments in Greece for anyone who knows how to operate our political system is not long-term. It will also be irresponsible to allow the entry limit to be reduced to Parliament, not least because of the certain totalitarian protest parties, which will increase opposition, extremity and inability to produce parliamentary work. The decision to reduce the age at which one is entitled to vote is also a top demagogical one. To vote for seventeen and sixty students, who do not yet have the civil rights and obligations of adults, reveals only hypocritical and lagging tactics. Of course, the Minister of Education said that they would be given the right to take a driver's licence at seventeen, but not for a motorcycle, just for a car. It may not consider them ready to drive safely a motorcycle, but it does not prevent them from being matured to vote. On the contrary, the government's refusal to make two ruined decisions, such as the fragmentation of the large constituencies and the vote on Greeks abroad, proves that the "cooking" of Maximos's "cooking" of concern is for what they see as good and interesting. In particular, for Greeks abroad, I believe that it is a due decision to all of our compatriots who fight for their homeland, hurt and care for her and her future. Let us not forget that the hundreds of thousands of immigrants of the years of crisis are close to them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this government no matter what it does, like the drowned one caught by its hair, has eaten its bread! Her end is close. Soon it will be a bad memory. No electoral system can save anyone who has already condemned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr. Harakopoulos. Mr Megammustakas from the Central Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u121	Good evening. Tomorrow's day is a great day for our country, for democracy and a great vindication for our own party, as so many years our President, Vassilis Leventis, as his first request, has the simple analogue. So the day has come for us to see it. It is a desire of the majority of the Greek people. You see it in polling. We politicians need to show the good example, to embrace what the world wants, because that is democracy, to follow the majority of the world, and finally to assume our responsibilities and to vote in favour of simple proportionality. This is the change that people want, and that's what we have to do. We do not vote for the simple analogue because we want to support SYRIZA. We have barely proved ten months now that we have voted for almost nothing of what SYRIZA brings, and we only vote for what we believe will bring growth to our country. Whoever wants to blame us for the opposite. The proper functioning of the state can be ensured by a simple analogue, since when a government of cooperation, involving many, makes a choice for administrative bodies and executives in the positions of responsibility, it will be stable, meaning that they will not have to change every time elections are held, as it is the result of cooperation. Now, every time elections are held, the state ceases to operate two months ago and four months later. Is that right? The question is rhetorical. So we want a simple analogue, as we want a vote at seventeen. In the seventeenth, the Greekopoulos, because it has experienced difficult experiences and has been "cooked", is now ready to decide for its future. We see that young people in their 20s, twenty-two, even eighteen, go abroad. The phenomenon of Brain Drain has been observed. And what do we do about it? We're not doing anything at all. So let us enable young people to decide on their future. At this point we can also connect the vote of the Greeks, the Greeks abroad, as most - much of them - have left in recent years and have to decide what is happening in their country. We therefore need to ensure a solution that solves this problem immediately. Now I want to make a little criticism of what each party says. First, I will criticise the SYRIZA and ANEL government, who are bringing this bill to the wrong time. They should have brought it back from the first moment they came, because justly now the New Democracy and the PASOK and the other parties, who are oppositioned, say that they are coming for micro-political purposes, because they are not going to come back to government. I can justify them. We should have brought it in from the first day and there is no excuse for the press 'we didn't have time'. We see how you bring so many bills. You had the time and you had to do it then. It was your responsibility that you didn't do it and you have to take it. Nobody would blame you if the next election day the first bill you'd bring would be the simple analogue. It was one of your "significances" and the simple analogue. I now come to the New Democracy, which constantly mentions the rule of law and brings Italy as an example. Why does it not, as an example, bring Germany, Austria, Finland, Malta and developed countries financially, which the system has achieved? That is what we must pursue. We always have to look at what is best and not what is happening to other countries, where things are going worse. We never improve if we always look at the worst. So I cannot accept that argument. I have also heard a number of speakers who spoke yesterday and today saying that the mere proportionalness of the first party does not respect. The first party, when it asks for bonus, respects the people? The people take out the MPs, not the bonus. We saw what self-resistance and bipartisanism did. They developed customer relations and rosphetological policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u122	Before there were these in Turkish rule.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u123	Before there were these, before bi-partisanism, all right! That was what brought the disaster in Greece, the rosés and the clienteles, because it covered each other, and with a government of cooperation there will be greater control. Otherwise, it is to control one and bring them in as he wants and otherwise be a group of parties, a group that cooperates and controls every decision. I also hear the PASOK for so many months talking about 'SYRIZA's cocoons'. That's right. What SYRIZA and ANEL did were continuously "associated". And he's coming now and he's making another big "ass" of PASOK. Last year he sent the letter of law to have the simple analogue. You do not respect your own decision. I then hear the JRC say that the Centro Association is constantly voting for anti-grassroots measures, that it supports the rich and that they are against the poor. Where did you see this when we say that all pensions should be cut to 1,500 euros? Is he poor who gets 1,500 euros this day? Poor guy is the young man who goes out to work and takes 250 euros to four hours. The poor are the unemployed who do not have to feed their children, not those who get EUR 2,700 and complain. But I want someone to answer us from the JRC, not me, basically, but the inhabitants of Thrace, what if the 3% cap is removed. You have an obligation to do that. Finally, I will talk about the Potami, which I heard him say that simply proportional in substance - Potami is not here - it harms simply proportionally. I couldn't figure it out. I don't think anyone could see that thing. As I heard him say, the 50-seat bonus distorts the value of the vote. Any bonuses distort the value of the vote. Any bonuses! The people decide and we must follow, he must listen. I fear that all of this is because some parties will be 'urban' of the party, who believe it will lead to the next elections. We should not pursue politics and plan in this way. On this day we saw that democracy does not have that much power. By taking the hierarchy of power, at the moment I see what I see, as all the world, what we talk about with the world when I go out is that the banks, the media and then democracy comes. We need to overthrow this. We are Greeks and Greece is the one that gave birth to democracy and we must have the right positions and the right policy so that we can bring it back where we need to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u124	Mr. Hadjisavvas has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u125	The media and the parties present the electoral law as a major political and social issue, but the truth is that the nail does not burn on Greek citizens for the electoral law. And that's why? At the moment farmers sell wheat soft with 14 cents a kilo, sell wheat hard at 16 cents a kilo, if they are lucky and their wheat is a foretaste, while the flour, bread, taxation and levies are rising. Hunger workers are difficult to survive, they and their families. Free professionals count debts and close their stores. The kiosks and cafes in the villages were charged with debts by the OAU. Taxi drivers make calculations, additions, removals, fuel, deterioration, VAT, taxi, and they don't come out at all. Cars and craftsmen in northern Greece go to Bulgaria their businesses, not to have over-profit and increased profits, but to survive. The unemployed? They care, you think, all those people with what electoral law they're gonna vote on? They know very well what they will vote when and whenever elections are held. The New Democracy has a dramatic situation, that we will lead to intergovernmentality, that we will not have self-government, that we will not have strong governments, that there is no education for government cooperation. They forgot that cooperation education exists since 2012. New Republic, PASOK, LAOS, DIMAR made cooperation. But they did not forget what happened to PASOK, LAOS and DIMAR. And, of course, they see the same future inevitably coming for their own party. SYRIZA, on the other hand, dramatically presents forced convergence in a co-operation government, because it says there is no programmatic convergence. They forgot that on 14 August 2015 they voted for the third Memorandum, which made New Democracy so happy, they forgot that together with New Democracy they voted for all the difficult Memorandum measures, they forgot that they now belong to the large Memorandum family and there is complete programming convergence. Your real problem, as Members of the New Democracy, SYRIZA, PASOK, Chief of Police Response, have said, is that Golden Dawn will become Officership. That is your real problem, because it will not be enough to cooperate with the last party, as it is now, but you will be forced to collud the first with the second party. Even greater problem is the loss of contact you have with society and with reality. You think with collapsing laws and wrongdoing you will suspend the Golden Dawn. You do not see the rise of nationalist folk parties in Europe. People want people's nationalism in Europe as a response to world loan sharks, as a response to Islamic fundamentalist settlement, as the only truth to ensure a strong and secure future for children of the Europe of the free nations. Let the New Democracy be rejoiced and say that it has been privatizing. But the truth is that its traditional electoral base differs from offices and local organizations of the Golden Dawn. They are not satisfied with the Memorandum, inconsistent capitalist attitude of the New Democracy, they do not like cooperation with the Left, PASOK formerly, SYRIZA tomorrow. They got tired of voting New Democracy and getting a PASOK government out with Venizelos. They don't want to vote again New Democracy and get them out of SYRIZA. Briefly they say they will go and vote Golden Dawn, whenever elections are held, with whatever electoral law there is. They'll vote for Golden Dawn. We heard about a constitutional review sometime, somewhere on TV. He says the President of the Republic will come out directly from the people. What responsibilities will the President of the Republic have? Will his responsibilities increase? If they increase, will it be something like a President-in-Office, not a Presiding Democracy? So, we're going for a change of culture? Is it going to look like about Turkey? In this great reform, therefore, there is no place in your democratic sensations for voting on new Greek immigrants, for all of them are possessed by love for Greece and an anti-immemorandum anger and it does not interest to be reflected in election results. So now give the Greeks a vote on the Greeks, on the new Greek immigrants, on the countries that are now in existence. Reduce to two hundred National Representation MPs. We're too many three hundred for ten million Greeks. Remove the parliamentary pension, not only for the three hundred Members who are now Members, but also for the multiple. Set up an eight-year maximum parliamentary term, to eliminate phenomena of professional MPs, professional ethnic patients. But do not dare to remove the 3% cap. The role of 3% is not electoral. It is a national role of 3%. Philo-Albanian, philosophical and pro-Turkish parties will enter the House, although now the anti-national positions of all the parties I mentioned - which are likely to enter the House, if the motto is removed - are represented as well within many of the existing parties in this House. The reason why, of course, you will not go through it now, is not a national one. You may pass it later or another government may pass it. SYRIZA is not going through it now, because he knows very well that if the 3% cap is abolished, per two - three MPs and components from SYRIZA you will go down autonomously to get into the House. If you add in both Lafazani and Constantopoulos, SYRIZA will return where it really belongs to, 2% to 3%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u126	Mr Karayannides has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to mention yesterday's suggestion by the rapporteur of the New Democracy, because I think he also expresses the basic line of the New Democracy on this bill. He asked three questions yesterday, the rapporteur of the New Democracy, who are also heard of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. The first question was - I think it is quite timely - why this law did not raise the funding of parties. I would like to inform the rapporteur of the New Democracy that the funding of the parties has been discussed for some time, at least twice a week. I would, of course, like an answer from the New Democracy about how exactly they will return the tens of millions of dollars they have taken, so that the Greek people can know when they will finally pay those borrowed in this country. The second question raised by the rapporteur is: has he dealt with the question of 'deleting candidates'? There is one issue here. The new Republic's rapporteur argues that the government in question should legislate how candidates should be raised? The third question is worse. Did he raise the question of the internal party functioning of the parties? Does the New Democracy request that we legislate on how the parties operate within them? So what exactly electoral law do we want to talk about? How are we going to define political game with parties and how they operate or simply proportionally? There was a confusion in the questions. I don't know if he did it because of the oral speech, because he didn't speak from a written text. Two arguments are heard from the New Democracy, again by the rapporteur. Vote at seventeen. Indeed, here is the argument that because the New Democracy comes first into universities, it will be favourable to this vote, but it does not support this because they disagree politically. Let me say that the first of the LPD at universities has nothing to do with the political consciousness of these people, but with the answers to the exams given to the parties in Mykonos, dolls and headless chickens from this wonderful video we've seen two years ago. So let's leave these intelligence on New Democracy's Primary to Youth. Because even if we take it as the first in the universities, universities are a vote and the New Democracy's rapporteur for the vote between eighteen and twenty-four should read the analysis as to who takes precedence over these ages. Still, youth isn't in anyone's pocket. Nor do we wish nor do we want to entreat young people. Once we give the right - and it is right that young people have the right to choose at this critical age what school they want to follow, what professional orientation - we tell them 'you can make your decision of life, but you cannot choose which political party you will vote'? I think we should leave the Civil and Criminal Code - which is their main argument - and see if we are interested in young people and young people participating in the political life of this country and also actively involved. The second argument is incomprehensibility. You will forgive me, but forty years of prudence they are probably not judged by the result - I say, as something positive, because forty years of stable governments, this is forty years of monopartite government, which means a two-participatory regime which here, in this country, has been altered for for forty years. Basically this means a reproduction of a political system, which puts aside any other political forces with the logic of the lost vote. We therefore consider that the political map in the country should be represented with smaller parties and with parties supporting different things from what we support, but, anyway, there should be a representation, because this law has this kind of humiliation: in 2012 in Kavala, a quadruple region, New Democracy with 34% took four Members. All other citizens who voted in 2012 in Kavala were not represented by anyone. This electoral system wants the New Democracy to remain, to cook, to cook and always to be in power. But come on, where this impeccable fate came in '12 and continued in '15 and liquidated the entire political system. Poverty, therefore, will not have the effect of mere analogous. We'll have government of partnership. Citizens have now withdrawn their trust from the two parties that have existed for the past 40 years and have been looking for new forms of political representation. Is that bad? Is it a bomb in Maximos, as I heard from various Cassandras? Is this a trap of insolence, which will follow us, as happened in Italy? I don't know. But obviously, it's democratic. If we want to speak democratically and not of usefulness - because the usefulness of everyone understands it as it wants in that country, I am in the government and I think it is useful - we think that democracy must exist and the more democracy grows, the better it is. Let us not shrink democracy to the level of'42%' - I heard from PASOK - 'and whoever gets 42% will get thirty seats so' or the even better proposal of the river 'every 2% of the first party will take one seat'. Let's stop cooking. This country lived in elections over the past decades, where the first could not make a government because the second was winning with the electoral system. To be simply proportional at last and to the potential of the electorate and to see whether the electorate will be persuaded, he will take his place. Furthermore, there is no other argument that we have heard standing in the absence of a simple analogue, but only that particular argument that they will lose. What comes now essentially ends liquidation and will also lose the position that the two political parties have so far been in power over the last forty years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u128	Mr. SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under discussion on the new electoral law comes at a time of importance for the political history of the country. It is the moment that everyone will reveal their ideology, their consistency through historical time and his true attitudes to the Greek people. He will, in other words, clearly state his position on how the people will be expressed in the elections. The ten votes will be ten votes, or will they be fifteen for some and some other five? The introduction of the simple proportional, a constant demand for Greek society, comes to be justified by the first left-wing government in our country. SYRIZA - ANEL, on the initiative of the Prime Minister, puts an end to the fearfulness of the popular bonus orders of the fifty seats, as voted by the previous electoral law and the then government of the New Democracy. The new electoral law fairly stipulates that, in order to determine the seats, which are entitled to any election, all the votes which it has raised on the ground shall be multiplied by the number of three hundred, those of the Members, instead of the number of two hundred fifty, currently in force. At the same time, the granting of the fifty seats to the party that raised the largest number of valid ballots is abolished. I wonder why the PASOK, a party of 6%, is against the mere analogy, against its interests and what it has declared so far. The answer I can give is that he has decided to self-destruct, let me go into neologicism, or has decided to merge with another larger party. Which one? As for the Potami, I understand with lost 50% of its power trying to move the other half towards its Ithaca. Who's that? It is known from the modern political history that the rampant struggles which took place after the ESA in 1958 in a military opposition, to dissolve the small parties of the centre and to become a strong central party, the Centre Union, so that the EES will then lay the foundations of bi-groupism, which continued until this day, almost a short time ago. Historic is the introduction of the election to the young people who completed the seventeenth year of their age, instead of the eighteenth to date. Traditionally, adulthood is completed in the 20th year of age. However, following the events of May of '68 and the uprising of young people in France, this limit began to fall to the eighteenth year in various democratic countries. It has come to our country with quite a great deal of delay and has been implemented for the first time in the 1985 national elections. I imagine the ladies and gentlemen of PASOK would respond strongly to the objections to the contrary, that the popular vote, in other words, is disastrous for democracy, but the PASOK leadership at the time did not have any salt with neoliberalism. The sad 'no' to young people, the New Democracy and the River, received a strong answer from the Teens House a few days ago. Ladies and gentlemen, the Conservative forces are not so much concerned with the recovery of the country's and the people's plan of extermination from the European and global establishment. What terrorizes them is that this government lays the foundations of another just and representative state for a country where democracy will be expressed through the genuine will of the Greek people. You are discounting, Mrs. and honourable Members of Officerial Representation, that in the next election you will be the first party. The truth is that you are not so strong in the predictions, because you had discounted yourself in the past, and as a result you have been generously borrowed in anticipation of the financial support of the first party for the repayment and have been disproved. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK, you owe the banks about 200 million euros each. And from a million to give the time, you'll need two hundred years to pay it back. I hope you have health, strength and long day, so that after two hundred years you can settle your debts! [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] In order to do this, however, you should be long-term. Therefore, perhaps the simple analogue will make it easier for you too, let your hair genius, according to the sketch previously tabled by Mr Charakopoulos in the Minutes on behalf of the New Democracy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u130	Mr Ballis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after a three-day debate on the electoral law in committee, it is time for all of us to take a responsible stand against the mere analogy proposed by the draft law as a way of allocating the seats to the parties. It is time to present themselves, to reveal the two different policies, the two different concepts that emerged during the previous debate, the two different trends towards demanding respect for popular will and sovereignty. It is time for each of us to count for their vote and personal view and attitude, their personal political past and also their contribution to the formulation of our political system in the future in terms of equality, democracy, representativeness and transparency without the polluting interventions of evil electoral laws. The differences that have emerged are indeed important and political. It is not just a simple question of changing two figures, as he said in his introductory speech in committee, but he repeated it yesterday, the rapporteur of the New Democracy. It is not just two hundred and fifty in three hundred seats that will be shared by the abolition of the bonus of fifty seats. Nor do we just change from eighteen to seventeen the age one can vote. On the first point, the different political concept is in what kind of governments the country has to have. The New Democracy, along with others who rush for its available stadiums, strongly supports the need for strong monopartite governments, apparently remembering its glorious electoral past in practical aiding this pursuit. We, along with those who support the need for simple analogues not now, over time, to fight together on this issue, say that what the country needs is composition, dialogue, cooperation, co-responsibility, that the expression of popular vote, as comes out of the poll, needs to be represented in Parliament. The New Democracy also told us through its rapporteur "when we vote we choose a programme and choose a government", meaning that this is only implemented through one-party strong governments. But that's exactly what happened in two elections in 2015. The people chose a program and chose the kind of government they preferred, the government of co-operation came from the bonus cellar. It insists that, in times of difficulty, such as today, the people should be able to elect a powerful self-powered government, so the bonus of the fifty seats should not be abolished. We remind them: in 2012 and 2015 there were four election campaigns that were critical in particularly difficult times. All four times with the existence of the bonus, the people have decided that they do not need a powerful government, but a governmental co-operation scheme. It was interesting, however, that another colleague from New Democracy, as he said, "we never made electoral law, because he would help us with elections". Alas, they know that very well even the trees that had an election book you gave them. They'll get three-phase and a majority of them making fun of us. The New Democracy also emerges in forecasts and forecasts, based on the same forecasts that in the previous elections it has given them a head start of seven units. You're disgusted. You'll be disproved again. Your predictions and forecasts of elections do not convince the people. It seems the only ones who have been convinced so far were the bankers who have given you, on the basis of your predictions, the tens of million euros, loan and fierce and the bill, as Panos Skouriakos said, for you, has already reached the two hundred and so many hundred million, about PASOK. The New Democracy does not want the simple analogue. Other systems know, but they trust and warn that once they become government will abolish this law. But you're still late. They don't trust the people in their free expression, so they don't trust young people that they can choose themselves and freely. After all, as has been demonstrated, they are training them in the belligerent, at least, in their internal procedures. You're telling them yourself about your youth. They don't want young people to vote from their seventeen years, because, he says, they're not mature, they're not ready, they don't match what the urban code contains. Why should the right to vote be linked to legal capacity, to whether young people are taxed, to whether they have criminal responsibility at that age? Is that a criminal offense at seventeen? Indeed, there is the need for such education, as the PASOK rapporteur pointed out and with the strengthening of the teaching of the relevant courses, as the Minister for Education pointed out. But let us dare, as other countries have dared. Today's seventeenths are far more mature than the eighteenths of 1981 and 1982. They are aware, watch, but they are interested, above all, in fighting for the future. Let us allow them to express themselves, to shape the future for the coming generation, for the new generation that comes. Enlarge and renew the electorate. Make young people more responsible in their choices. To paint fresh ideas, to a large extent, a disgraceful political system today. And finally, let us help not to be a characteristic moto, a characteristic slogan of young people's daily agony, "I fear all that is going to be done for me, without me". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u132	Mr. Thibeus has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in today's debate there is an effort, particularly on the part of the New Democracy, to reverse reality and I would also say a specific 'hidden' policy from PASOK and the New Democracy to say clearly, at a crucial time for the place, who will go and who will leave it. In fact, who is afraid of the people who will be equally expressed in the simple analogue vote? The Politics Second SYRIZA or the New Democracy, which knows that without the poaching of the fifty seats will never govern? And that is the crucial issue today. The New Democracy is well aware that only with the political champagne of the fifty seats and two more - three well-known "judgments" of the system can rule. This political motif, the Greek people have stopped it twice, and it will now be final. The positive laws that have been in place so far are not only politically unfair, because they deny the equivalence of vote, but they give rise to bipartisanism, strife, racism, bureaucracy, partisanism and all that constituted by a bankrupt political system, which has led the country to the crisis that is experiencing in the most tragic way, six years now, the Greek people. The simple analogue deprives New Democracy of its tools to govern, and that is why she is afraid. This explains its hybrid speech many times, inside and outside the House. The temptation has been lost, and that seems in every public speech of the New Democracy officials. But let us consider a case if, over the years of the one-party governments, I am a majority, there was a simple analogue and co-operation government. Would there be 400 million non-performing loans from PASOK and New Democracy? Would there be 1 billion, about, "seawater" in the media? Would there be immunity, corruption, Rusphetti, ‘SIEMENS’, Batopod, structured bonds? Would there be bankruptcy in the country that led to the memoirs? Most likely it's no. Today, very wisely, the majority of the Greek people prefer government co-operation. The leadership of the New Democracy knows that, and that is why he insists positively. She wants to give a political alibi to her bankrupt policy, but the worst thing about bringing redundancies back, the privatisation of education, health, immunity to business, the extreme right profile on issues of democratic freedoms and rights. That is the deepest, that is the essence, that is the policy it wants to implement. Very well. Behind the arguments of insolence, Mr Mitsotakis' anti-popular policy is hidden, as has been declared by the Step of the House. But both PASOK and Potami, and here we can't trade for 42% plus. It can't go on with that fairy tale. Now we have to choose who we're going with and who we're leaving. In this Chamber, the importance of the vote of the homosexuals, the break-up of the large regions and, indeed, as a precondition for the simple proportionality has been exaggerated. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, it is a big issue. We have time to see them, to discuss them, to really see in the context of the Constitutional Review what may walk, but do not do so, ladies and gentlemen, as if we have a plot that is missing 50 square meters to make it even and build and we must first put the fifty square blocks that the neighbor has stolen to make it even and build and then discuss layout and furniture. That's the crucial issue. Here, then, ladies and gentlemen, the glorious field of glory, once we have voted on the simple analogy, also look at all the issues that are really crucial, are serious, but they will not call into question the dominant issue of the abolition of the bonus, namely the introduction of the simple proportionality. There was also another argument for political anxiety. Who will the left SYRIZA cooperate with, Mr. Vorides said a heart spasm yesterday? Well, Mr. Voridis, this is exactly what you're afraid of. That's what you're afraid of. Who's SYRIZA working with? The simple analogue will liberate and give birth to political forces within and outside Parliament. Anyone who has not seen the changes in political and party spaces over the last six years probably sees like the fool just the finger. Today, with the increasingly questioning of the extreme neoliberal policy at European and global level, all the political and social forces that will lead the country to progressive governance will emerge after September 2019.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u134	Mr Andrianos from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr President, I will pass on the previous anti-Police officer's misconduct. I don't think she deserves those characterizations and the attack. They are not worthy of a historical parade that restored democracy in our country, which brought about a constitution that has put the country into the European Union. So she does not deserve these descriptions and these insulting phrases. We are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about a bill of SYRIZA - ANEL, which does not respond to the needs of the place, particularly the urgent need for political stability. On the contrary, what we've been seeing all this time is a cynical bazaar in the desperate attempt of Coupling to catch the limit of two hundred votes. Even the very competent Minister for the Interior - and there you should, Mr President, address your Minister - the rapporteur of this bill a few days ago said and warned of insolence if the simple analogue is adopted. Now, in front of the small-party interest, he is trying to justify unjustified and bridging. So to be quite clear and to know the Greeks and Greeks the real motives behind this bill, I would like to say: The government with this bill is trying to achieve three things, none of which concerns and serves the interests of the country and society. The first objective is to turn the political topicality away from the results of the current government policy, because when the debate is about the economy, unemployment, the dramatic expansion of poverty, the new heavy burdens that the current government has accumulated on the citizens, canceling the sacrifices of citizens over the years, then the game for the government's majority is lost. So nothing of the many important things that you promised to come to power did not act. In any area of public life, things have become much worse than they have been governmental. With false belief, then, that a great turmoil equals a wonderful situation, you are trying to turn the news around elsewhere. But we won't let you do that. It is our duty towards our country, it is our duty to the Greek women and the Greeks not to let you hide and silence the results of your policy. The second objective of the government is to create problems for smaller parties in opposition, trying to break them down. This is a politically amoralistic tactic, but it is more appropriate for colleagues from these parties to speak, as many people have already spoken and as some of their colleagues will vote for your bill, to criticise the time you brought this bill, since you have already won the two elections, you have left one and a half years later. And, of course, the third objective is to hamper the road of the New Democracy. My colleague said so before. The bill we're discussing is a confession of defeat. And in your attempt to manage the upcoming election defeat, which you yourself consider inevitable, you are going to put obstacles to the next majority of the New Democracy. Are there, then, reasonable questions? Why didn't you vote for the simple analogue as soon as you took over the government in the first few months? If you really did, even now, want to upgrade democracy and parliamentaryism, you would go ahead with the reforms that are mature, which have the broad support of our society, you would adopt the vote of the Greeks abroad and, of course, you would move on to the fragmentation of the major regions such as Athens. But your concern is another. You have exploited the bonus of the fifty seats twice and now that the third is impossible, now you come to denounce it as allegedly unfair. But do you know what is not just unfair but also extremely negative about the country's perspective from now on? Dragging the country into law, discussing the 3% threshold, which is why we all know well who and how serious they are, just to serve the micro-party purposes of the minor government partner, who, while considered it a red line up to a few days ago, is now ready for discounts. We will not only vote against this electoral law, but there is an explicit commitment by the President of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, that we will change it as a government immediately after the next elections to ensure the country's rulership, the portrayal of the Greeks' true will, the way out of the crisis, the substantial strengthening of democracy and parliamentaryism after a broad and substantial dialogue. 'Yes', therefore, to the greatest possible representation. However, 'yes' and ensuring the country's practicability. Once again in its history the New Democracy responds to opportunism with national responsibility. We cannot allow you to move the public dialogue away from the heavy consequences of your governance. We cannot allow you to drag the country into new adventures just to be politically justified with terminology and tricks. The country needs a strong government of national responsibility, which will respond to the clear demand of the social majority for exiting the crisis, for a definitive end to the tax fraud and for the strangling of the creative forces of the Greeks, for the creation of new productive, well-paid jobs, for growth that will be spread throughout society, for a state of perfection, a civil servant, and not its power. Be sure that whatever you attempt, this course, Greece's course towards creation and advancement, you can no longer shake it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u136	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, which is Mr Yoyakas from New Democracy - let me speak, Mr Yoyakas, for two minutes, please - I would like to inform the House of the course of discussion of the bill. You know very well that today's meeting will last until 0.00 ́-0.30 hr. So far they have spoken about fifty three Members. So the rest of the meeting is to speak of six ministers, one of whom is Mr Kourublis. Immediately after Mr. Kurubley, the other seven have declared their desire to speak...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u137	Mr President, what time will Mr Kurublis speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u138	Let the Bureau finish, and then your questions will be answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u139	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u140	Immediately after Mr Kurublis and before the other five ministers have spoken, who have declared about the time to be assigned, the Parliamentary representatives will be intervened seven times. We therefore have six ministers until the end of the sitting, namely at 0.00 001-0.30', seven parliamentarians and have already tabled an intention to speak with two former Members of Parliament. There has been a time calculation and on this basis - with a minimum tolerance - we are talking about about a three-hour period for the six ministers, the seven parliamentarians and the two former Members of Parliament. So we have about seven hours left, if we delineate that we will start what I'm going to propose from 17.00 to 17.15 ́, not more than in an hour. So we have four of the seven, about hours. We therefore propose that more Members should speak - I am conveying to you the proposal made by the President and unanimously accepted by the Conference of Presidents this morning - to reduce the Members' time from seven minutes to five so that more Members can speak. The House is sovereign. If she accepts it, that's fine. If he does not accept it, we will walk with the seven-minute and instead of speaking, as we estimate forty-five, possibly forty-eight Members by 0.30 hours, will speak even thirty if necessary. The proposal is about an hour from now to begin implementing the five-minute period, so that after about ten Members - so much I have counted, if I am not mistaken - who will make use of the seven-minute period, the others will prepare their speeches for the five-minute period. That is why the proposal is being tabled. Do we agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u141	Can we see it later?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u142	Can't we start earlier than 17:00 this afternoon tomorrow?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u143	Before tomorrow's meeting, during which the debate on today's bill will continue, we have the debate on the Legislation of the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u144	That's it in the morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u145	Yes, in the morning, but time has been calculated and on the basis of this bill, which will be under way, namely, that will start in the morning and last until the afternoon. With regard to tomorrow evening's sitting, I should like to remind you of what has been discussed, although I think that all the groups know about it - that we set for tomorrow between 23.00 and 0.00 hours, at most, to vote on the bill. Tomorrow's sitting begins at 5.30 p.m. It will perhaps speak of a small number of Members - let me say that this is a personal assessment - because imagine how much time will be needed for eight Members of Parliament. There may be secondary rapporteurs, secondary and parliamentary interventions. It is therefore understandable that on Thursday - tomorrow - the number of Members to speak will probably be very limited. That is why we are proposing the five minutes today to win the number of Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u146	Mr. President, when am I going to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u147	Mr Yoyaka, you're right, but all of this has to be said, so we can be clear what we're going to do. So, do we agree with the five-minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u148	As you said, after ten people, there should be five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u149	After the first ten speakers we'll be applying the five-minute one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u150	If we proceed with five minutes, will the list be completed? If the Bureau considers that the list will not be exhausted despite the five-minute period, we would ask you to consider opening tomorrow's meeting earlier, if the Minister of Defence's bill is finished, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u151	Now, we repeat the same things. Whether to start earlier - your proposal, anyway - is in line with the previous bill that will be discussed in the morning, if it ends at 16.00 ́ or at 15.30 ́ or at 17.00 ́, for example. In any case, the list of five minutes - and I think you too see it - is not going to be completed, unfortunately. A hundred and fifty-six Members have been written. So far they have spoken fifty three Members. So there's a hundred more missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u152	Mr President, I would like to speak for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u153	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u154	We're concerned about when Mr. Kurublis will speak. Has he determined you the time?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u155	We've been given a program. At 18:30 Mr. Kurublis will be speaking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u156	Secondly, which former presidents will speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u157	Let me tell you the names right away. It's Mr. Venizelos, who has made a request, as well as Mrs. Papariga. Now, in what order will they talk, that's another.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u158	Mr President, it's okay for the five-minute. But is it fair to take it tomorrow? There are colleagues who have made their programming. Finally, I would like to inform you that the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence has very serious issues within which they do not find the whole House in agreement. You may be aware that the 17.00" that you say and 17.30" is an open matter. Keep this in mind. It is a great deal of dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u159	The timetables for tomorrow's sitting, which I told you, are not mine. This is how the Conference of Presidents has been decided and I think it is in the knowledge of all the groups. If it needs to be extended - I say, if necessary - the time of the first bill, of the Ministry of National Defence tomorrow, we will see this in the course of the process. As far as the request made by my fellow Member is concerned, that the sitting be opened earlier this afternoon, perhaps - as I say - it cannot be satisfied.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u160	I agree with my colleague. I'm trying to tell you, is it possible to take a piece of tomorrow's sitting on Friday? Make another setting. There's been a mess.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u161	What bill do you think he'll go Friday?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u162	The National Defence Ministry bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u163	But on Friday, Mr. Loverdos, you are well aware that an urgent bill has been tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u164	All right, Mr. President, but we can't have it all in this life. Some arrangement has to be made.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u165	Now, not to have the debate that took place at the Conference of Presidents. I will pass on to you what was decided in the next few days' programming.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u166	Another was programming, if you remember...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u167	An urgent draft law has been tabled by the government, as you know very well tomorrow will be in the committee and on Friday it will come to plenary as a bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u168	Another was programming if you remember.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u169	Let the day come, let us decide about today and see what happens tomorrow. Perhaps today in the course of the debate, we should revise - I say, after consultation, the parliamentary groups, the Presidents, the Vice-Presidents and a change in the programme tomorrow. I might point it out. Don't take it as an assailant. So we're in agreement with the five-minute, then?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u170	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u171	All right, we're in agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u172	Mr President, I would like to ask a very substantial and brief question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u173	Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u174	Mr President, are you concerned about the possibility of revising the eight-haul list?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u175	What do you mean, by the eights?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u176	We were making eights, which acted with a proportional representation of speakers from the different parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u177	Look, we're going with the speaker list, as it's been drawn up. In that order, we're going. Mr Vassiliou Yoyakas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to dwell on some of the things that have been heard and written in the last few days about the changes in the electoral law. The co-government party also invokes grounds for consistency. It is, it says, a permanent and timeless demand on the Left. Yes, it was indeed a request, of what they were uprooting parties with no prospect of power and a request that was made by the left parties, because it would strengthen their parliamentary presence. So if SYRIZA wanted to be consistent in this timely Left request, why did he not hurry to change the electoral law in the first half of 2015? Maybe because last year he didn't break the chair bonus, which wasn't actually fifty, but thirty one? Why would he see that he still has a majority tolerance in society? It is not therefore a matter of consistency, ladies and gentlemen, but of interest and party self-interest. I will not say much about the real policies and hence the financial consequences of the implementation of the simple analogue system, that with certainty - as has happened in the past - it leads to governmental patterns that do not produce work but to mutual compromises without reflection, which are being blackmailed by larger or smaller government partners and departures or independent MPs, at a time when the country needs a strong government, which must do much in very little time, which has no room for experiments. But I would like to stress that the government is dealing with another crucial issue with wastefulness. It does not discuss a comprehensive and radical change in the electoral system. It only takes to change that serves its purpose, that of great turbulence, which they justify by a report of ideas. They are talking about strengthening political cynicism as a problem, which is indeed a problem. On the other hand, however, they are bringing a law to the vote, which is the desecration of political cynicism. "We and our people must be rescued and let the country sink!" There are also contradictions. They tell us that government stability is not based on legal regulations, but also on political initiatives, in short, political will and political criteria. But, ladies and gentlemen of the government, political stability must also be legally guaranteed, because otherwise the country will be a prey of political irresponsibility and of political opportunism, such as the one you have shown, when you dissolved the then parliament in December 2014. In the same report of ideas, it says that the crisis of representation and depreciation of politics will be dealt with by extending the electoral right. There is no other proposal, no initiative to clear electoral lists and no debate about the changes that will bring back the one and a half million citizens, who have stopped voting from 2009 to 2015. The representative crisis will be solved with a few tens of thousands of new entrants. However, you do not do anything to vote for the three hundred and fifty thousand Greeks who have been unholy in recent years to work and live their families, but also for the whole of the Greek-democratic world. The resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which you refer to, says that the possibilities for granting voting rights to younger ages should be widened. Will you tell us how you investigated it, what scientific data your choice is based on? I'll answer you. No one! Or you'd have invoked it. The conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, is that the government does not want to work. He just wants to stay in things. If he wanted to work, he would not leave aside the open issues of the evaluation or implementation of the measures that have been adopted to deal with the electoral law now. It would not delay substantial reforms, from the expansion of plastic money to the reduction of energy costs for large companies. There would also be no viewer of the major health, primary and education shortages. Conclusion two. The inappropriate and unadulterated analogy is indeed also treacherous and frustrated. They are fraudulent, because on the altar of electoral survival, the government resorted to a cheap bargain but also to unholy alliances. She is frustrated, because she seeks to be held in the game of power, when she has been sentenced to the poll by the voters for what she has done or omitted and for underestimated - as she does by this law - the intelligence of citizens, older and younger. It is therefore a pity that the government’s treacherous and polluting plan does not seem to be coming out of it. Thus the New Democracy will be able to prevent the disastrous consequences of the mere analogy, bringing as a government an overall proposal for the reform of the electoral system. Ladies and gentlemen, we see what Greek society really is experiencing. Poverty is coming for all of us. Unemployment is growing. Tourism is going badly. And you all live in another world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u179	The next speaker is Mrs Kefalidou from the Democratic Association. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u180	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since recently there has been a lot of discussion on figures and percentages, let us speak with numbers. The percentage of poor households that cannot have at their table every second day nourishing food reaches 52.5%. Exceptional expenditure - for example medical expenditure of 400 euros - is impossible for 87.2%. The impossibility of satisfactory heating in the winter months amounts to 50.8%. 41% suggests a difficulty in paying the rent. The list of data from the Hellenic Statistical Authority for 2015 is long, it is shocking, it breaks bones for those who have. Invertebrates don't bother. The above figures I mentioned are not just about poor households. They are all about the middle class in the country, which is at the threshold of poverty. I'm sure it's about the whole political system. When SYRIZA became a government in January 2015, he took over the power flaggedly the "here and now relief of the people", the overthrow of the numbers in favour of society that is plagued by the recession. He continued in a way of crusade, populist and completely irresponsible, threatening Europe by venting the Greek bubble and collecting an ok, from here the exit, to help you leave. This government has brought us a breath from the total collapse of the country, a Greek that was talking to the ATM tails. Of course, you know her all the time, we all live her. It has proudly reached us with EUR 100 billion as a result of incompatible negotiation. He imposed a third Memorandum that our triceps will pay for. He did the gracious referendum, where the 'no' became 'yes' and in the meantime completed the market, entrepreneurship, self-employed, recently retired, and very soon, and even the workers. Does this government have the above percentages to do with it? Of course they do. What kind of left would it be? What does he do to change this situation? After much effort, loss of half his party, compromises with its principles and payments, in a state of late realism, the Prime Minister is proved to be daily refreshing. Investments, in which it now looks forward to reconstructing the economy and creating jobs, are constantly stumbling into a wall of ideology and lack of its executives. And now? Now the old, good SYRIZA returns to what he knows how to do very well. He plays short-term games with institutions, such as electoral law and television licenses, undermining a fragile stability on the razor edge, but the country and the economy also need. It uses opportunistic and demagogic tactics that are pretending to seek consensus and understanding, while both have drugged them in advance. It's pretending to promote a simple analogue, because it's a matter of principle, and it's not a good thing - it says - SYRIZA and closes the eye with respect to the smaller parties. For the "fine" government appears generous too! It offers us, he says, the opportunity to take part in a wider progressive front. The hook is shining under the bait, but the government is sure to lose it like gaps. In simple terms, he says it's unlikely. Just say what you want us to bring for electoral law to vote, so that in the next elections, which we know we do not go out first party, we cannot form a government without us, and when that happens, we will also keep you no stool at the government table! Of course, if that happens, the country will have gone to hell, but the government doesn't seem to mind it, because it has done so before. That's what you say, ladies and gentlemen of the government. Prepare to serve a dynamite cocktail with unbearable taxes, work and insurance in the world that you have unleashed and shattered at work for a year and a half and you shatter what has happened since the autumn. So, in time and evil, you remembered your principles and disorientate the world with irrelevant issues. You are blaming the people with supposedly more, deeper, widest, fairer democracy, and once again you are once again talking about the citizens who believed you. I'm asking you. What is left with the non-dividing of large regions? What's left with the 3% game? What's left of the secular blockade? Finally, what's left with your unregulated, until yesterday, flirting with the Golden Dawn? The only imprint you will manage to leave with your law is the powerlessness of the country at a time when stable governmental patterns are a board of salvation not only for Greece but also for Europe as a whole. You are criminal, gentlemen of the government, at the expense of the country and its future, and you know it. Looking unresponsively for accomplices to once again claim the unreservedness of the deceived. Well, no! The five arrows on the leg that you baptized electoral law, this abortion you dug fast before they came clean, HISPIA, auctions and seizures, before the world wakes up, to vote for it yourself. You and those who stung the bait with the leftovers of your power. We have no confidence in your intentions. We do not believe that you suddenly get hurt for the citizens you are slaughtering every day. We can't forget your lies that every time they write a new record. We've met you and we don't trust you, neither do we citizens. For the Democratic Compact, the institutions will not become a tool for you to make sure your chairs are secure. For us, the institutions of the culture are no longer a game in your hands. They're not pliers, gentlemen of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u181	Next speaker, Mr Michalis, from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, Mr President. By highlighting the issue of electoral law and, in particular, the government's proposal for simple analogues, there have also been problems with the nature of our political system, which dates from the distant past. In the complaints made by the Greater Representation - and not just - against mere analogy, the main argument is the need for strong governments, in fact mono-party ones. As if the governments of the country had not been one-party since 1974, and why not since the 50s, which set up an irrational economic model in the country and a corrupt state mechanism for looting the mono-party governments, which led to the present situation. So is this justification valid? Or is it indirectly expressing - and I will say directly from one speaker I have heard - a consistent ideological conception of the right-wing party on how to rule and vote? I list events that characterise this perception. First post-war elections 1950-1951. The JRC is illegal, the Left is represented by the SCA with 10% in the House, a simple proportional electoral system. Elections 1952. Teaching, applying over-reinforced analogy. The Left with the same percentages outside the House. Elections 1956, over-reinforced. The left goes down to the elections together with the Centre and then the incredible three-fast system is invented, and as a result the centre-left with 48% wins thirty-two seats, the Right ERA with the new President after Papagos, Konstantinos Karamanlis, with 47% sixty-five seats. Well done! Constantine Karamanlis first Prime Minister. Elections 1958. Again over-reinforced, but the surprise is that the EDPS is an office opposition of 25%. The answer is, 1961, a 'PRICHLIS' project, in response to the astonishment of the ETUC, elections to violence and fraud. Elections 1963-1964. Association of the Centre in the Government, the ESA in Parliament, new tactics, apostasy and finally a coup d'état and a dictatorship in April 1967. Do not forget that elections were scheduled in May 1967. Transmigration. Left to full legality. Elections always over-reinforced. The tradition - I'd say - goes on. So we go as far as a few years ago, with powerful monopartite governments, which have never completed their four-year term of office since 1950. I stress, the strong governments have not completed their four-year term. Why? We're here today. The conditions of post-war and post-tracting Greece changed rapidly. The New Democracy without a proper and concrete justification, but only a commitment to its ideology and history, as I have described, remains faithful to authoritarian electoral systems and strong, unpopular, monopartite governments. But the problem that arises today is the attitude of PASOK as an expressioner of social democracy and of Potami as an expressioner, and who? With popular percentages on the entry limit in the House, they insist on giving the first party the gift of fifty seats, losing themselves. Do they hope that New Democracy and themselves will be the first to continue to be its tail, as before, in the recent past? The results of this policy have not been valued? We believe that the one-party period has been completed. Faced with the current problems of the country requires wider programming consents, which will lead to governments with a broad popular base, so we propose that the gift of the fifty seats be abolished, that the seventeen vote be taken as the first step towards a rational and representative electoral system. Subsequently, the partitioning of seats, etc., followed by the debate in the Constitutional Review. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u183	Mr Kyriazidis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u184	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a bill entitled 'Binding for the salvation of SYRIZA'. In order to disorientate public opinion from the consequences of its disastrous policy, which has literally dispersed the country and the economy for eighteen months, the Government has systematically chosen to open up issues completely unprecedented and impeccable. He does this consciously for a simple reason, in order to hide and escape the reality that he cannot understand, a reality that is cruel and grim that the Greek people experience on a daily basis. It is the reality of the Left Memorandum, the proud negotiation, the degrading withdrawal, the tax raid, the social deregulation, economic exile, unemployment and ultimately the government's proven inability to manage the country's fates. This art of political disorientation requires mathematics and skill, which SYRIZA admittedly has. It is the art of propaganda and the targeted alteration of reality, which you want to fully control by closing private channels. In this political context, which you are embodied in, you are now bringing us a so-called electoral law. On this issue, as I mentioned to the competent parliamentary committee, the weakened moral and political government of SYRIZA, in the middle of summer and outside of political news, chooses to open up completely manually and fragmentedly the issue of 'electionary law', disseminating in detail the agenda of the political dialogue from the real problems of the country and the citizens, which it is unable to manage. When the economy dies and society is tightened, when business closes after business, and unemployment is galloping - the OAED is counting unemployment for the month that passed in tens of thousands of five hundred - we in Parliament are dealing with a so-called electoral law. Ladies and gentlemen, the electoral law and the consequences of the electoral system are a vehicle in which our citizens operate representatively. It is the tool on which our parliamentary system is being structured. Therefore, electoral law must be based on principles and assumptions and what do I mean? It must be a law commensurate with needs, culture, country and society, a fair, stable and effective law. It must be a law that will not be colored politically and will remain away from opportunityal purposes. Under these assumptions that history will judge, we come today and the SYRIZA Government also comes to do what? What's he trying to do lately with the supposedly simple analogue? In the light of the popular hurdle and because the "magaz" grew and must be preserved, he praised the Parliament of the components and the Municipalities of Koumoundouros to salvage what is not saved. What kind of way is that available to achieve this? Of course, the change of electoral law. But what change? It is true that the change that suits and is cut and sewn to the measures of the SYRIZA leadership. The government of SYRIZA, which lacks the appropriate democratic legitimacy, stemmed from a false democratic sensitivity, but also from the constant demand of the once Left of the coalition of 3% for a more proportional system, as it was at the time, found that the numbers did not come out. He predicted defeat and wanted to play and speak the next day, trying to enforce the rules of the game. Who are they? But, of course, the people who suit SYRIZA. But is your institutional intervention and change being exhausted there? Are these your ideas? Is that your political position? Is that where you delineate your vision of reforming the political system? Ladies and gentlemen, no one disagrees that the demand for more democracy, structural changes in the political system and more cooperation between the parties must concern us. We must, however, be concerned with and come to a draft electoral law through a sincere and long dialogue, through a political added value and a lack of fraudulentity, which do not distinguish you at this stage. Solve these features, because the dialogue you were supposed to have had was totally pretext, as it proved in the course, that was empty. Why was it empty? It is simply because the present proposal you have tabled is the one your party bodies have proposed, ignoring the positions and proposals of the other parties. Solve the moral advantage, for the additional reason that this system you want to change now, you used it twice for your own interest. We say that for the January 2015 elections, it was not possible to change it. But what about September 2015? We did not hear in 2013 and 2014, when you were in the public interest, have a proposal for a change in this regard. You didn't bring her. You may have, like many other things you had in any of your program reports. That's where you couldn't bring your proposal for electoral law before? Couldn't you show this political sensitivity? Then there was no question of democratic legitimacy and now that you are losing the land under your feet, would you bring to the vote what suits you? Did you really get the unadulterated expression of the popular will, did you respect it in January and September 2015? Did you honor the order you received or to choose to find a way out? Did you really respect the people's opinion in the referendum that you provoked, even calling on him to vote 'no', or was it there that was left-wing, and that's all right? Ladies and gentlemen, the country needs institutional changes, solid changes, based on the needs of the times. In this context, our country does not want and must not go into new adventures. It needs stable governments that will give vision and perspective. He needs to finally get out of the staircase. Sadly, however, your proposals, your positions and your actions, culminating in the so-called electoral law, prove that you do not understand the reality. For this reason, history will not be confined to reading only the intricately written report of this bill, but will account for you deceitful and inappropriate, which will be the beginning of new sufferings for our country. You are inaugurating a period of political instability, which, although I despise, I very much fear will come and you will certainly be charged with historically and politically. I should like to address my colleagues in the Com mittee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media: we have not seen anything yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u185	Mr. Iliopoulos has the floor from Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u186	Thank you. We have come today and yesterday, and we will come tomorrow to discuss a bill, which does not concern anyone other than the SYRIZA rulers, most of whom have nursed in the KKE, are very well aware of the means of propaganda and are now trying to grab and bench in power, to use them in any way they can, to keep them a little longer. This bill serves - it would probably serve, because it is not going to pass - two purposes. First, SYRIZA, whenever elections are held to be a regulator, although a second party, of things and at this point to get the agenda from the burning political and international issues and to "fly the ball", as we commonly say, on an issue that, as I said at the beginning, is not about anyone. We have tabled a number of amendments, which you have certainly not accepted, to vote on by the relatives, from three hundred to two hundred, and a few other amendments which could indeed be a little bit heard in the ears of the Greek citizen, which is currently being plagued by the measures you have taken over the years and which have been levelled at it. Of course for the relatives you cannot vote for, because you have sent them abroad with the policies you have been implementing in recent years, so they would round your back together. The MPs from three hundred don't dare make them two hundred, because you'll lose your chairs and see how nice the chairs are for you and how old you are, you're doing everything you can to stay in them. It's an election law, which, because it won't pass, is pointless to have three days and talk about two hundred MPs, about a law that really has no value. Today, then, is a sad anniversary for our country. There was an invasion. A piece of Greek land is under Turkish occupation and we only had to do today, it was a minute silence again very much! How you didn't forget that, because it's none of your business. In those days, it was something else for you. You were concerned with returning to - within many introductory words - 'democracy' in this democracy that we have been experiencing forty-five years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u187	Yeah, that's what we wanted the junta to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u188	Ioannides and Papadopoulos must leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u189	It's a national disaster, a tragedy that's still going on, a part of our country being occupied, and all you're doing is what we told you, a minute of silence. On the 24th day of the month, because most of this is not known - some of SYRIZA's people may know about it, because they are also members of their own - there is an event - we have the invitation here - of the DEB party. Here, therefore, the invitation refers to a Turkish minority. We have filed petitions and we are asking that this event should not take place. There is no Turkish minority in our country, gentlemen of SYRIZA, who are cut and you have such democratic opinions, but no patriotic and national sensory. There is no Turkish minority. Tell your MPs and your members, Zabeck, the liar you cover, the President of the DEB who works with your MP, that here is Greece and there is a minority Muslim and not Turkish. This event normally, if there was a serious state, there would be no chance of it being. But you were sad to see that Erdogan set up a coup, which was, of course, a failure - after he set it up, he could not have any luck - and you rushed to send all of your wishes together that Erdogan did not fall. If Erdogan were in Greece, you would call him "fascist", "nazi" and I don't know anything else. But once he's an enemy of our country, he's a Turkish nationalist. It's the best thing for you. For the New Democracy that has said that "Cyprus is far away", with your so-called nation ruler, Karamanlis, what can we say? Right now you're escorts too, SYRIZA's tail. We therefore call, because it is today the anniversary of those of you who want to do something very simple, in other words you, the neo-democratics who play it patriots - of bad time, of course - and you of SYRIZA who confess to being ethnic, to do something very simple, to open up the Cyprus file so that the Greek people can learn the truth after so many years. All files for all historical events at some point open. Only one folder has not been opened and it is the one of Cyprus. We need to see who is in the interest of Cyprus's file being closed and who is covering the secrets of this file. You are a different side of the same currency, of the decline, of the rot and of betrayal. You of SYRIZA may be neomenonial and ethnicly neutralists and other veterans in dirt and corruption. You'll be in power until the Greek people wake up. You'll betray the country. You will destroy the Greek people and you will continue in here to be loved, friends, and you will exchange some alleged expressions of discomfort to each other, as we are used to hearing here. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Otherwise you're exactly the same. There is the party of political parties and across from there is the Golden Dawn. As long as there's Golden Dawn, there'll be national truths in here no matter how much it hurts you. As long as there's a golden man, here's where we'll talk about Greece. Apart from a temple of democracy, it is a temple of Greece and here national truths must be heard only in the interests of our country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We therefore call on the whole of Parliament directly - we have asked for it several times in the years that we have been here - to open up the Cyprus file, to see who you have been covering forty-five years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u190	Mrs Georgopoulos - Saltari has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since yesterday we hear in this Chamber from the opposition parties, which do not intend to vote in favour of this electoral law, to present to us their alleged arguments, which, in many cases, could only be described as oxymobile shapes. We have heard that they are doing so for the sake of democracy, parliamentaryism and stability, although for some parties, as they have said, they are not in their interest. This, of course, leads us to conclude that irony exists at the same time, because the vast majority of citizens, but also the members of the political formations that are currently opposed to the bill, have previously recognised that the enhanced proportion - even with the premium of the forty and after 50 seats - was excessively weak in terms of the net outcome of the popular verdict and in terms of representation and governance. Suddenly all of this was erased by their political map? That the proposed introduction of simple proportional, already produces political results across the political spectrum and that it upgrades democratic institutions to citizens' conscience, does not he say anything to you? Then why the plea of misguided arguments today against a mere analogy? What criticism can stand against fairer representation? Ladies and gentlemen, it is not the Left and the entire progressive world that is calling for over time, but the most important thing is that the current electoral system runs counter to the sense of equality between citizens. But I'm going to be more specific. We are critical of whether stable governments are guaranteed on a simple analogue basis. The guarantee, the existence of stable governments - and how much more or less two or more political formations - in each democratic system must first and foremost ensure that the people's will is unadulterated and represented, but also a real framework for a programme agreement, otherwise they will be governments of a permanent special purpose condemned to the conscience of the people. We also heard criticism from the Qualified Opposition that government can be formed without the first party, for example from the second and fourth parties. If that happens, it means that the first party will have a very small percentage, which will in essence not have a mandate to form a government, that the splitting of the vote will be very large in the parties that will catch the entry wall, but that this party with its programme will be unable to find allies in Parliament and in society. It is certain that this does not have the most serious chance of happening and certainly cannot be a brake on the imprinting of the popular verdict or be replaced by a virtual reinforcement of the first party. It is therefore stable governments that result from the clearest possible representation of the people's will, but also those that are increasingly involved in the political processes. After all, let us ask ourselves why, with the existing electoral law and its variations, it is difficult for the governments concerned to complete the four years. Especially at this time when in our neighbourhood, but also internationally, we see how decisive the people's active support for the defence of democracy and constitutional forecasts is, it is necessary to establish regulations that enhance and broaden the participation of citizens in common and in decision-making. The parties who voted against the debate in committee and accused of playing with the electoral law should not forget that the New Democracy and the PASOK time-consuming were cutting and closing the election process according to what served them. After all, the enhanced analogy, in addition to all others, also guaranteed them a parliamentary representation, which gave them passports to bank lending and today, at last, the House is examining this matter in detail. The triangle of interlocutory tries with mania and with whatever means it has, to present that the government's plan for changing electoral law has been defeated. This is an orchestrated propaganda to restructure the dynamics of the simple act of proportionality, which is an important part of the democratic reforms that we are implementing. That is why we have heard the Member of the Democratic Independence speaking just now about an abortion. Of course, these practices are not adopted by SYRIZA, no matter how many people call them. The scenario of allegedly taking into account the Golden Dawn votes was also collapsed on the part of the government. With the communication on leaving the vote, it simply confirms that it is once again depreciating democratic institutions and has no place on the top political issues, as is electoral law. Furthermore, it also confirms that it is identical to the terminology of the old political system, despite the crowns and cries about the opposite. With regard to voting rights in the seventeen, it is in full alignment with a resolution of the Council of Europe's parliamentary assembly as early as 2011, in the title of which we have read on just 'to extend democracy by reducing the age limit to sixteen'. It cannot be that the young people of sixteen and seventeen years have defined labour rights and other social issues, and that does not correspond to the right to vote. In our country with enormous unemployment, with insecurity along with immigration abroad, we must constantly institutionalise and move on to reforms that place the new generation at the core of its policy, inclusive. It is therefore historic that this bill should be passed on to the future of this country, which is the new generation and to democracy itself. To note here an article that Panos Trigazis recently wrote, which said that young people of this age - we are now talking about - were the ones who took the lead and followed the movements from the National Resistance to the Polytechnics. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We SYRIZA Members elected by the existing electoral law want together with all the democratic MPs who understand the need to change this framework directly, to be the last to be elected in this way. By taking on the historical responsibility for us and recognising the need for neoliberal totalitarianism, to oppose more democracy, we are voting in favour and we support with all our powers the draft law as a necessary, progressive institutional cut. We want to reverse the process with society upright and with more democracy without delay. The mere proportional requirement of a genuine people's demand will become the law of the state and will be applied, because it is mature and necessary to shield the credibility of political life. You who do not vote for, simply bring the main responsibility to the conscience of citizens and do not apply to the next elections analogous and voting to the seventeen, our people will defend the law and move on to its implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u192	Mr Kontogeorgios from New Democracy has the floor and Mr Venizelos will follow. Here, Mr. Contogeorgio, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u193	Mr President, Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, at the moment when all the citizens of this country are 'burned' in the furnace of endless taxes, contributions and unemployment, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has chosen to bring to the National Representation the change of electoral law. It is quite right, then, to wonder. Is the government majority on another planet or once again deliberately trying to deceive citizens, distracting them from the problems of everyday life? What are the real reasons leading the government to this move? Why is this prestige to change the electoral law, when the country needs political stability as much as ever? Why did it not go directly into changing the electoral law last year, when through a delinquency of populism and promise he took over power but used the current electoral system in order to regain the election? Why is this rush and poverty in the other opposition parties to ensure their support to pass the electoral law? Why is the Prime Minister even trying to resurrect the political "zombies", haggling the 3% entry limit in the House and writing the national interest in its old shoes? Is the government's objective, ladies and gentlemen, visible throughout this effort, but is the trap very well hidden? Did her spectacular transformations lead her to panic moves? One thing is certain. He has perceived the displeasure of the people, feels his wrath and seeks extreme ways to be held in power. She knows that her policies are increasingly tightening the nipple of despair in the people's neck and she predicts their condemnation. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you have had winds of populism and it is time to reap storms. Your efforts to become in power and hold on to it by playing with the electoral law, hides your guilt and confirms your complete inability. You have learned nothing from history, which has so far shown that the majority system, facilitates the creation of homogeneous parliamentary majorities and thus the emergence of stable governments. In addition, it provides the opportunity for clear choice for citizens. The analogue system facilitates the fragmentation of political forces and prevents the creation of homogeneous majorities. It makes it impossible to form stable governments and also creates uncertainty about who will govern and what alliances. The choices belong more to the parties than to the people. The majority ruled in democratic states, with a minority playing the most important role in control. Election law could argue that in practice it is much more important than the general provisions of the constitution on government promotion. Election law cannot in any way change popular minorities to parliamentary majorities, because then the civilisation is simply being destroyed. In many European countries that have adopted the simple analogues, there has been very great political instability with constant and repeated elections, with inability to form governments and with what this implies to the people. As far as our country is concerned, given the enormous problems it faces, it is necessary to create stable governments in order to get out of the suffocating strand of memoranda and crisis. It is completely paradoxical, an electoral system to exclude participation in the creation of the first government in votes of a political party. The creation of alliances clearly can help address the very big problems. This can be achieved primarily through a majority voting system which prejudges stable governments and with the participation of smaller political figures. It is an obligation for all the political forces to ensure, by means of electoral law, the undeniable stability of governments, in order for our country to succeed, that it faces ever-growing challenges and accumulated deadlocks. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not an appropriate time for political games and micro-political purposes. This law will lead our country to an endless process of political instability and to an industry of elections, mocking the Constitution, plundering the necessary stability and sinking it into an endless suffering without end. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, if, in fact, your intentions were sincere, it should have taken precedence to discuss the revision of the Constitution, to reach agreement with all political forces and with society on a fundamental review of the electoral system, which would include the break-up of the major constituencies, the vote of the homosexuals and the immunisation of our democratic culture in general. Unfortunately, your intentions are hypocritical, technical and only aimed at your party interest, withholding the interest of the country and of the citizens. It is now time for all of us to show responsibility, wisdom and efficiency, while neglecting practices that will be harmful to the country and its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr. Kontogeorgios, and for the economy of time. Mr. Venizelos will have the floor. It will be followed by Mrs Papayannakis and three speakers. We will then give the floor to Mr Karras, the Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, who asked to speak before the Minister, Mr Kurublis. Come on, Mr. Venizelo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u195	Ladies and gentlemen, there is an inalienable political rule. A change in the electoral system which makes it difficult for the first party and which deprives him of the bonus, which is voted ten months after the elections and three years before the full natural end of the period, means accepting and accepting defeat by the government and, indeed, a defeat irrevocable. So this is not about institutional sensitivity and consistency of the government, it is simply that the government wants to fall softly. To this end, it enriches the institutions and enjoys trade with anyone who finds himself in front of it, from Golden Dawn to out-parliamentary willing interlocutors. If there was a sign of sensitivity and consistency, the change in the electoral system had to take place in an unsuspecting time, shortly after SYRIZA's first election victory in January 2015 or even before the September elections. Last July the country had an urgent need from a government of national unity, because it was fast on the rocks. He needed a government that could guarantee the country's salvation. A change in the electoral system as we proposed at the time would facilitate the formation of this government. Last year, however, SYRIZA's leading group preferred the appalling referendum, early bonus elections and government co-operation with ANELs only. So what the government is doing now is a desperate attempt to divert the debate from the legalisation and representation crisis from which it suffers and which is unhealthy, in a so-called political witch, from the impression that it guides and controls developments with a change - and even a direct change - of the electoral system. Fortunately, the 2001 revision added the 2/3 increase in the direct implementation of any change in the electoral system. The government also tells us in its own way that even if it does not succeed in the immediate change of the electoral system, it can politically blackmail the process of forming a government after the next elections so that it can lead the country to double elections, with the latter being held with the new electoral system. It does not tell us that it is ready to cooperate in a broader manner with the participation of the first and second parties and all the democratic forces of Europe. Not at all. The government's aim is to say that yes, has been defeated, but it can control developments through a patent that knows very well, the patent of heterocles and ideologically incomprehensible partnerships, which have as only a common denominator the games of power. We see the SYRIZA Government - ANEL with a third missing partner the privileged anti-immemorandum right, which contributes, in particular, to the technology of interventions in justice and the deep state and to the vote of the electoral law - this was its pursuit - with the help of anyone offered, the Golden Dawn which had initially given this impression, the Association of Centrals, of course the JRC for the reasons of principle that it has explained and whoever would en route, but on the way, did not arise. The Golden Dawn, after letting the government subdue favors and honors, i.e. "little it" by saying that the vote is welcome and has no color, now appears antisystemic and strongly criticises the institutions. What the government says politically, then, is that, with a mere analogy, a government of cooperation with the second party and various heterogeneous partners is supposed to be a government with a centre-left sign, but that does not result in mathematics and, above all, does not result in a reliably reliable and practicable programming framework. But be careful what else the government does at the same time. It opens with the Revision of the Constitution the matter of direct election of the President of the Republic and strengthening his responsibilities and thus "closes the eye" to cooperative conservative forces. The sign from the centre-left, with amazing ease becomes center-right or whatever it is, just as long as someone stays in the game of power. At the same time, government toys with institutions are evolving into justice, independent authorities, the communication landscape, economic extortion and trade, while rhetorically the complaints against interlocutory as a foreword are intensified to make contacts and arrangements. The government opens up two major issues, the electoral law and the Revision of the Constitution, which presupposes institutional consensus, while deliberately provoking constant tensions around the institutions. After all, what was revealed about last year's plan x by Mr Tsipras, Mr Varoufakis and others shows that there is no barrier for those who did not hesitate last year to discuss the involvement of the army and the suspension of constitutional rights. The democratic party, we, tried to block the government's turbulence last year with the proposal for a law on the electoral system within the then tragic juncture, so that there would be a government of national unity. We had a proposal for both a electoral system and a government structure under the circumstances of exceptional circumstances. We are now preventing institutional hunger, which appeared to be playing with plan x last year, with the referendum and now with electoral law. The country does not need power games at the expense of the institutions of democracy and the rule of law, it urgently needs elementary consensus, from a national unity, and all creative social forces need to be collated, the programming cooperation of all democratic political forces that believe in European orientation and the need for the country to find its place in the new difficult connections, especially with what is happening around us, in Europe, the United Kingdom, Turkey, the wider region. This is stable, from 2012 until today, our proposal for the government that the place needs. The country does not go on either with irresponsibility and tactics or with illusions of self-responsibility. The country needs an alternative and a progressive middle space that guarantees a stable path and recovery. That is why we are voting against this bill not as a bill of inappropriate analogy but as a vehicle of fraudulent political opportunism without a horizon for the country. For the same reason, after the next elections, we will oppose any irresponsible and small-party behaviour leading to a political stalemate, double elections and economic backwardness. We know that our fundamental and urgent task is to assemble society and unite the nation around a reconstruction plan that goes beyond the memorandum, a plan based on the truth, which we have been calling for years on our own, at a great cost and now it turns out to be and is a one-way road. The country needs a reconstruction plan that only the honest and reliable cooperation of the real democratic forces, who really believe in the country's equal European perspective, reforms, investment, employment, social cohesion, can bring about. A key element of this cooperation will obviously be a modern, fair and representative electoral law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Mr. Venizelo. Mrs. Pappiga has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u197	Ladies and gentlemen, what I am about to say, I would say, and if the government brought in a law that was genuinely analogous, and not a law with a threshold that inevitably limits the equivalence of vote. I would say the same if even the three hundred MPs, not only the two hundred, were to vote for this electoral law with joy and applause. We are clear about our position on the electoral system and the connection you make to the electoral system with democracy, with popular sovereignty, with the stability of the government, with Parliament, etc. We are actively involved, of course, depending on the number of Members we have, because you have fifteen Members, another twenty, another twenty-five, etc. We are actively participating in all those procedures relating to the popular vote, whether they concern the national Parliament, the local elections or the sub-regional elections. We do not participate in appointed extra-parliamentary bodies. We are, therefore, actively and with a fundamental objective through our intervention in this Parliament, able - and this does not depend, of course, only on us - to vote on certain articles, including laws - we have proved it by our vote yesterday and yesterday and yesterday and now - that enable the people to stand up to better positions, to organise their struggle to retreat worse, to improve their standard of living, for democratic trade union freedoms, knowing that the best democratic law, which we can vote on with two hands, is stopping outside the workplace. This is where the alteration of any democracies has a law, stops outside the mechanisms of the urban state, etc. However, we want, with our intervention, to bring results for the people. But we are clear about this. The centre of weight for the Communist Party of Greece in contrast to all other parties in the House, regardless of your differences, is the extra-parliamentary struggle. The centre of gravity is where the people are, where the people have to fight to get to the fore, there is the center of gravity. If you want this basis to begin with, we have stated in an unsuspecting time but also in a time that has been put under very great pressure on us, that we do not participate in any government either urbanly purely or management of the fate of the urban system and we do not look at the sign or marks of the other parties when they bring in a draft law containing a good article or anything. Can I tell you why? Even the prestige Communist Party says nothing. It has also been proved by the twentieth century and the twentieth even more. You may have that sign too, but it doesn't correspond either to your program or your strategy or your tactics or your practice in the term Communist Party. I'm saying this because we're talking in adjunctive terms now. It puts each one a sign - his right - but we judge the content of the programme, strategy, tactics, practice, we take as the basis the following thing: that we live in a class society and on the one hand there is capital and work on the other. What to do is to take into account what we are taking into account to clarify our positions. Parliament's limits are too limited for popular efficiency. I beg your pardon, in other words, for all parties, arguing about electoral law or agreeing to meet you in a position: government stability, political stability. All parties. With the opportunity of presenting our position, which we do not, of course, put forward for the first time. The people need to know, i.e. the working class, the poor populaces of the city, the village, etc., that the stronger and more stable the government is, the more difficult the effectiveness of its struggle becomes. On the contrary, the people must not be afraid of the breaches that may exist in the civil system in terms of popular struggle, not by conspiracy and because of internal contradictions and various other interventions from above. He must not be afraid of them at all, because he hopes he has something to do, something to win, and above all to continue his struggle for the radical overthrow that the people need, he needs it for the people and he owns it, especially if these breaches are multiplied. She shouldn't be scared. Everyone here is talking about stability policy. What does political stability and government mean? Does it mean that there is a one-party government, co-operation, three, five, ten parties, which will ensure what? They will ensure the maintenance and development of capitalist profitability. Why look to see also in crisis conditions we have parts of capital that have profitability, takeovers, mergers. The "Marinopoulos" may be closed, but the χ, the chain of the supermarket, can be strengthened and this is how it has been done. It will be enlarged, developed, stronger capitalist growth, capitalist profitability and more profoundly adapted to Greece's integration into the European Union, NATO and, more generally, the needs of the global capitalist system, which is why you want stability. By the way, gentlemen of SYRIZA, in addition, you have acquired new pouches as government and explained. However, by listening to speeches not only within the House but also in the panels, I am allowed to say - I do not know if it is an exaggeration - that you have acquired the mentality of the new ship. That's how you're acting. So what does it mean? It means you've really conquered, you've evolved into the new system political fireplace. You're fighting with New Democracy about electoral law. Look at that. The New Democracy, at least us, is not surprised by us as a party, not only in the recent but also in the past. The main thing, that is, if you like, the "protodium" of the urban political system does not have proper flexibility, is to accept even reforms that are painless and possibly supportive of the system. It supports enhanced analogue, bonuses etc., hoping that we may return to bipartisanism or also have the realism that it cannot have many best mans to make government co-operation. On the contrary, formerly PASOK and now SYRIZA has the ability to be more flexible in changes and reforms that help to support the system. They're more open. But the target is the same. Plus, SYRIZA has realism. It tells you "if I can't be a first party, if I can't make a government, I've got more best man," and we understand the other parties that feel like they're turning around in advance in the elections to say which party they're going to cooperate with. From this point of view, both the enhanced analogue and the majority were absolutely extortionist and the simple analogue will also work. We're not afraid of this blackmail. We're clearing our position, which is the center of gravity for us. It's the extra-parliamentary struggle. At the same time, of course, we want an enhanced parliamentary presence of the JRC. It'll be good for the People's Movement. Because a Member of Parliament told you here - and, you know, help younger people not to say such things - that "the JRC wants 3% so that it doesn't go around with who to cooperate" or "does not want 3%, wants many parties to enter". Really? This isn't where we're working in 2012. By the way, the urban political system and, when it has been translated, there are forces within Parliament that help it restore itself. So the bourgeoisie of our country, the European Union and NATO, have been lost by the fact that two parties have lost millions of votes and have not been able to form a government, or have it seen that they have been in difficulties since 2012? Oh, no. They found a partner, found another party, adopted others. But it is not always a question of government cooperation. When SYRIZA lost the majority in Parliament, it found a majority and the third memorandum was passed. Or is it not a form of cooperation without having made a conciliation between you - I mean talks and behind the scenes - when there is a fish silence, radio silence, for NATO decisions in Warsaw. That's issues, isn't it? When you say about the stable political system, when you say about democracy, when you say about a number of things, the NATO decisions that you signed them, have nothing to do with what you say stability in Greece? Seriously, is Greece an anchor of peace, stability and democracy in Europe? Turkey's events teach. What we are fighting - and it is not just up to us to be - is the Greek people to applaud the dominant ideology and politics or a part - is not easy - in a critical mass and not to be found as the Turkish people were applauding why Erdogan defeated - as much as he defeated, because we do not know what background compromises have been made - or whether they were ready to applaud if those who took the stand, rebellion, coup - were defeated. The Greek people cannot enter between the intra-urban and anti-imperialist contradictions. He has to draw up his own self-determination course. And with our participation in parliamentary procedures and in the Greek Parliament we are serving - we are trying, I am not saying that we are doing everything perfectly - a goal. The conquest by the people's movement of self-sufficiency, its own self-determination towards the government, against the bourgeois state, against the European Union, and NATO having the capacity - with intimidation, it is no different - to divert some concessions and to organise the struggle for radical overthrow. So even if you want the genuinely simple analogue, I do not exclude it from bringing it, because I do not exclude tomorrow and New Democracy at some point to support it. We would vote for it and, in principle, there is no question. We do not look at the sign, we look at the objective effect it may have. But look, it's not that from political authorities and respecting the principles you brought this law. And so if anyone believes that you did it in the balance of your anti-grass and anti-grass policy, of pro-natoman, of aggressive pro-natotics, etc. I would like to ask the Commissioner if he is prepared to give us an answer to this question, and I would like to ask him if he is prepared to do so. Alas! So we're clean. Neither are we blackmailing nor extortioning nor blackmailing, nor tacticism and our position is too clear, and in this respect we say again that the people's movement must not be afraid of the breaches of the political system, its difficulties, its weaknesses and the unstable government. The more stable the anti-grass governments, the more difficult the people can have.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u198	We will give the floor to three speakers, and then the parliamentary representative of the Centroon Union will speak. We invite Mr. Stepho from SYRIZA to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u199	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today, forty-two years have been completed by the invasion of Cyprus, an invasion which has been facilitated by the junta of the colonists and Ioannides, and it is at least an insult to Parliament that both SYRIZA and the democratic forces in this area are invoked for what they have done at the time, by those who have politically and militaryly supported this regime. We have a historic moment today, with the tabling of the law on simple proportionalness in Parliament, and I, a Member of the Left, feel proud to vote on it. The Left, ladies and gentlemen, has always reacted to the electoral laws that have hampered the conscience and vote of the Greek people, and today, by tabling the law on simple analogues, a solid political demand and a modern demand from the great majority of the Greek people. Times have changed. The years of the crisis have matured politically all of us, or at least most of us, and any references and comparisons to the oldest simple analogue systems, and even to the 1950s that many dug up, are at least anachronistic. We have been told that this debate is disorientating public opinion. That it acts as a cover for the real problems of society and finally that it threatens democracy itself. But the shouting voices forget that the unadulterated representation of the people's will is the foundation of democracy that must always be shielded and, above all, during times of crisis like this one. The simple analogue will, of course, put an end to the improperness of the people's vote, will start cooperation governments on a programme basis and will leave behind only party governments that we have known from the relocation, and here, which, with the support of the domestic economic situation, have often cared about their own survival and not about the interests of the people. With regard to the reactions of the Officerial Response which he spoke about the election law 'opperet' and even questioned his constitutionality, I am not surprised at all. It was not and will never be in the political culture of the right the proportional representation of the people's will. Mr Mitsotakis, addressing his party's parliamentary group, said that simply proportionally contradicts simple logic and made us all wonder what simple logic he is talking about. That logic, which says that the people cannot define who will represent him? Only local interests can define governments? Mr Mitsotakis spoke of a risk of insolence, but he forgets that the social unrest, the discontent of the world is the one that causes government instability and that is independent of whether one or more parties are ruling, as political developments have shown in recent years of the crisis. But those reactions that surprise most are those from PASOK and the Potami. It is important to wonder why both New Democracy and Potami and PASOK - or at least their members - were coming out and talking about insolence scenarios when these parties after every election campaign called for political cooperation. In fact, New Democracy and PASOK formed a co-operation government, making traditional voters of the 1980s do not believe in their eyes. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] The most strange thing is this, which is happening in PASOK: a year ago, on June 3, 2015, PASOK put down a proposal to change the electoral system in a mere proportional manner. Today, with his refusal to vote for simple analogues he officially abandons his central left-wing principles and has against any social base, which he wonders why he is allying with New Democracy even in electoral law. It's a choice that coldly performs his credibility and self-respect. On the other hand, Potami wants governments to cooperate - it has been stated many times - but it will come from party leverishism and does not want those who reflect the will of the people. He seems to be drowning in his contradictions and following the great decisions of the New Democracy faithfully. No, Mr Theodorakis - who is not here - will not dissolve the country from the mere analogue. The country is in danger of being dispersed by neoliberal policies that you so defend. And yes, if Mr Tsipras is recorded in history as the one who kept the promise of a mere analogue 'the left-wing fathers', as you said, that is an honor both for Mr Tsipras and for all of us left-wing fathers. And since when is a blackmailed and terrified Member of your Parliament who, while remaining loyal to his authorities, voted for a simple analogue despite your decision, as you declared on a television channel? We used to regard electoral law as part of political purposes and not unfairly. But today we have to overcome the past and let the Greek people decide for the governments he wants. SYRIZA either likes or does not like it has become established in the consciousness of the people. He formed a government with the ANLLs to fight the difficult circumstances and to give solutions to the people's real and real problems. The elections will take place in 2019 and we will then be the first party. In the name of our values, however, we are abolishing the current bonus of the fifty seats. We hope and believe and believe that, until then, the economic and social situation of our country will be normalized and on the one hand the culture of cooperation, which we lack, will have been cultivated, so that we can finally lead to the first - in introductory - 'normal government of the Left'. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will be done in a minute. On this course we are giving the right to vote to the seventeen. Those who hesitate, for they consider the seventeen immature, think about what was said for the eighteen in 1982. Never before was a generation of people as wronged as today. So let us give them the floor even if their vote is the best way to express only their wrath. Our democracy cannot be afraid of its own children. It must cultivate the confidence of young people in democracy and trust those for whom the future builds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u200	Thank you. Mrs Ahmakopoulou, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with today's bill, we actually have a public admission from SYRIZA that it cannot govern this place alone. Of course, we have seen this for so long, but today it is also publicly admitted. When I say he can't rule this place, I mean he doesn't have the ability, but he can't, too, because people now understand what this is about. However, apart from the public assumption - that is to say, that you admit that - you want to legislate. Because what do you want to ensure, since you cannot rule this place? You want three versions tomorrow. The first aspect is that there should be powerlessness at the place, the second is that one cannot rule without you, because that is how we will forget - you think - and the responsibilities that you have for this period of governance so far or, in any case, that there is a government from which there is no self-reliance of the New Democracy. So the electoral law is this public assumption by you and it is also a political response to a new given one. And the new precedent is that all the delusions are now over. I myself, Mr President, was not absolutely convinced that there was fraud. Anyway, let me be a good-for-nothing person. There may have been deceitful or there may have been just raw lies to come to power to maintain authority. However, in any case, delusionals are over. And when I say that they are over at this time, they have also finished with regard to the past of governance, the first and second times left last year, both for now and for the future. As far as the past is concerned, on Tuesday we will have the debate here on the Examination for the past summer, and there we will see and what your position is, as to whether we can discuss your past. But, regardless of whether there was or was not a plan x, who knew it, if the Prime Minister had asked, what would happen, I think the delusioners are over. It was understood that the memorandum could not be shattered, that no one could say 'go back Merkel', that no one could be resented, that this destructive and splitting referendum did not lead anywhere to the negotiation. This is all over. Why? Because a three-month memorandum came, they came and we still have one year after the capital controls, and after all the bill for the country is around 100 billion euros. That's all about the delusions of the past. Let's go to the present. It is good in here that we discuss the simple analogue and electoral law, because in our constituencies, I do not think people are talking about this. People are talking about the account of your government. Because IRS has now come, we wait for HISPIAN, people live with the cut-off CSR, with the cut-off pensions, which was a red line. All of this is now an individual, family, measurable account inside each other's home. That's what they're talking about. Businesses and small and medium-sized businessmen, as well as free professionals, are engaged in a struggle for survival because you have imposed them an exterminated tax. The padlocks are growing, the stress of the workers is growing, wherever they work. That is the result, and that is the present and there are no illusions about it. This is the Greece of today. And this situation - I read a communication a moment ago - Mr Toskas describes it as a 'completely controlled situation'. Of course, Mr. Toskas is mentioned in what is happening at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, where they are camped, where they draw buses, where we do not know what else is going on. This, like the situation in Exarchia, as well as the fact that there are gunshots in the center of Athens, as the other day in Omonia is a "absolutely controlled situation". Imagine it was uncontrollable, that is, the situation. No one can talk about fraud, neither of the past nor of the present, nor of the future. Why? Because there is a difficult autumn, and we all know that. Despite the celebrations of the primary surplus in the government's communication yesterday, we all know that the primary surplus is due, firstly, to the fact that the state has declared a stop to payments - it does not pay anyone - and secondly, to the fact that some once-off increases in revenue from either the storage of tobacco or oil products or from the dividends paid by the Bank of Greece - once again - for ANFAs this year are not going to be repeated. The targets are therefore removed. And as long as the targets are removed, the so-called cutting cut, which you have legislated. Of course, there is also the second assessment, to which you should now negotiate in person with your election clientele. This is about the future. However, the electoral law - to close - comes to answer politically and some other delusional ones, which have begun to fall apart. These illusions are about what would happen in this country, if at some point the Left ruled. Uh, we see that now. I will say the big ones: one has to do with social justice, the social state that would be strengthened and all that. As far as the protection of weak people is concerned, particularly in the crisis, after the end of the CSCE, after the indirect taxes of 1.8 billion, because they are horizontal measures more hitting the weak and if someone takes a walk in a public hospital, I think we are done with this illusion. Then, of course, we had the place to clean up, because there is the so-called 'ethical advantage of the Left'. This delusion has been devastated by the appointments of the “mothers” and by their defence. According to that left-hand logic, if you're left, you can do whatever you want. You can forget to say a million words on your "subjects". You can forget that. You can do whatever you want. You can have a company. You can become a minister and forget the independent authorities. Anything you want you can do if you're left and you're probably innocent. But if you're right, then you're not even entitled to the presumption of innocence. And that's down! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will need your tolerance, Mr President, for a minute. Let's go to the last one: you need to answer that. Tomorrow in the opposition something you must say, you did something left. All right, you made the left to bring the simple analogy. Simple analogue is the mere assumption that you cannot rule on your own. You're also incompetent and you don't want to. That's a simple assumption of your defeat. And believe me, you will have an answer from the electorate when the time comes, which will be proportionate to the lies you have told them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Mrs. Ahmakopoulou. Mr Charalambos Athanasios, Member of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are also being called today on a sloppy side of the House to decide on the major issue of changing the electoral law. The issue of electoral law is a major one, because it is about the functioning of the constitution and the validity of the institutions. That is why the constitutional legislature has laid down in Article 54 that any change in the electoral system will take effect from the next elections. And he defined this because the morality of the political system and the upgrading of the political system require that the voters, but also the political world, know what the electoral system is with which to lead us to the elections. By way of exception, it stated that it could take effect from the next elections if it was voted by at least two Members. In other words, we see that the constitutional legislature refers to a set of constitutional provisions regulating the formation, operation and responsibilities of the electorate to the public. I am referring not only to the above provision, but also to the one that determines the number of Members - less than 200, over three hundred - to the one regulating the exercise and the limitations of the right to vote, to the one which refers to the vote of the relatives, to the one which refers to the guarantees of the unfavourable manifestation of popular sovereignty and others. Why am I saying this? For the electoral law is not disfellowshipped from the constitutional requirements and the constitutional revision, because it is an organic law, which in detail regulates the electoral system and the election of MPs and therefore the way in which the electorate exercises its powers. In any case, it regulates the power of the electorate to show the House. That is why a majority of at least 2/3 of the Members are required to change the electoral system from the next elections. With this majority, the constitutional legislature wants to strengthen political culture, but also to introduce an element of stability of electoral law, so that the electoral law does not change in every election campaign depending on the party interests of a majority. Therefore, the assessment by the joint legislator of the specific circumstances of the introduction of an appropriate electoral system does not constitute an assessment free of constitutional restrictions. It is not a free assessment of the political context in question, but an assessment that must be formulated on the basis of constitutionally imposed or tolerated criteria, the most important of which is to ensure government stability, which ensures political stability. I am, of course, talking about self-reliance, but only about political stability, which will encourage investors, foreigners and Greeks, at a time when our country is so in need of investment. I read from the explanatory statement: "In view of the crisis that Greek society is facing today, which in many respects has taken political features, such as depreciating the political and democratic institutions and strengthening the political cynicism and anti-social and anti-political attitudes and behaviours, this draft law takes important steps towards bringing about this crisis and restoring the relationship between Greek citizens and the political and democratic institutions." Good words, but you do not explain how this relationship between Greek citizens and the political and democratic institutions will be restored. Are institutions more deceived than government? You see what has happened in Italy: about sixty governments have formed in sixty years. If the Government were so interested in simply analogous, why did it not just legislate it in January 2015, so that SYRIZA is consistent with its earlier commitments? However, even if it did not have a chance at the time due to the proud negotiation and the alternative "project X" you could establish it before the September 2015 elections, so that there is legality, as you suggest, in the printing of the Greek people's vote. But again you could introduce it immediately after the September 2015 elections. However, you have now remembered the simple analogue when the polls give a clear head start to the New Democracy, which is why the present government is being cut off to gather the votes of two hundred MPs, so that the country can be brought into power. Because it is your plan at the end of the day. I would like to say a few words on our amendment. Our amendment contains two regulations: the first concerns the vote by the Greek parliament and the voters abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard some inaccuracies. We are not talking about the right to vote from the Greek Democratic Republic. They have the right to vote when they are in Greece. They are registered on the electoral lists and they vote. We are talking about the right to exercise this right in the country where they live and work. This applies to all European countries. I do not see why we should not do something that we owe our migrants. He wondered why we did not give this power to the migrants when we were government. The answer is simple: we were a tripartite government and we did not have a majority in the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u204	What about PASOK? All right! Ask for apologies at least from the Greeks!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u205	Minister, don't interrupt me. I gave you the answer to the committee, and now. We didn't have the majority. It was a three-party government and we couldn't get through it. However, from the first moment Kyriakos Mitsotakis took the lead, the first theme he raised as the first priority was the vote of the Greek Democratic Party. That's to put things in place. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. What are you afraid of? I don't understand why you don't want her.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u206	Don't rush! We've got three years ahead of us!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u207	No, now's a chance to do it now. I don't understand what it is that scares you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u208	Please, Mr Kurubli, do not interrupt, because he will respond to you and then dialogue will take place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u209	Yes, but I'm wasting my time, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u210	No, I'm not saying it for you, I'm saying it's not going to be interrupted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u211	It's holding time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u212	The right to vote, as I said, also has the right of democratic Hellenism. Whenever he's here, he may come to vote. There's no such matter. Nor is it right to say that elections can be held in Asia, Africa, Australia, America or elsewhere because they are not registered. In Greece we have not yet recorded all the Greek-democratics. In other words, we do not have what we say, a record of the democratic Hellenism. That is why they cannot be elected to the seats where they are situated and serve. The second regulation concerns the separation of the Second Electoral Region into three. It has been said that the votes will cease to have the same power, namely that the equivalence of the votes is bent. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me, Mr President, the half-minute that Mr Kurublés has interrupted. It has been said, I repeat, that the equivalence of the votes is falling. But the equivalent of the votes - I told the committee - does not exist. Don't be foolish! And I will tell you the example: take a two-way district, take Chios, for example. A congressman takes out New Democracy, a Member of Parliament is taking out SYRIZA. What about the other parties' votes? Therefore, we do not have equivalence in this sense. In the sense of counting the votes throughout the constituency, they have the same status, because they are counted and taken into account in the electoral measure and in the Members whom each party will be elected. So to make this clear, there is no problem. Nor is it a problem that has been said that, with the split-up of Athens perhaps a party will elect fewer Members. That's a huge mistake. If a party makes nine MPs all over Greece, it'll be nine again. There's no problem. If the system is changed and it becomes more proportional and it makes eleven, 11 Members will be able to make it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u213	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u214	I'm done, Mr. President. I will say a few words because I would like to give an explanation, because many people have probably not read the Council of Europe's resolution on the vote in seventeen years. Listen: This resolution is not a directive or a regulation that must be applied in our country as well. It gives the Member States a direction to the resolution to consider whether they can apply the vote to the seventeen. This, however, depends on many objective factors. In other words, it depends on the structures of education, education, education, vocational guidance and other objective criteria which each country offers its young people to shape their mental strength, maturity and perceptiveness. That is why we are saying that this should be the issue of reducing the age limit. In any case, it could have been completed in the seventeenth year, because in fact the sixteen will vote. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL, I would like to say that the moment for our country is critical, as far as the issue of the electoral system is concerned, and we should not play with our country's tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u215	Mr. Igoumenidis, SYRIZA Member, has the floor. I would ask you, Mr Igoumenides, to be consistent in your time, because it is a hundred and fifty-eight Members who must speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u216	Mr President, say so!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u217	I said it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u218	We didn't hear that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u219	What am I supposed to do? That's what I tell everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u220	But you're not saying that...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Left in our own country and in the world is coming far away and is pulling even further. Its cycle cannot start and end from alpha in the beta vote, from alpha in the beta election battle, as some New Democracy MPs have said. If you want it in this sense, I really agree with the view, which says that today, in order to get out of this vortex in which our homeland has arrived, we need the continued effort of our Government, the government that is the main body of the left, the constant struggle of society, we need building in this effort to unite our Government with the fighting social forces. This in no way rescinds the importance of electoral law, in no way does it deny the gravity of it. And in this respect, our position is clear: the representation of each party in the House must be proportional to the power of each party to the Greek people. That's the left position. It's a place engraved on her historic route. It is not a position that came in a heartfelt fashion, as the previous speaker, Mr Athanasios, said. It is not a position relating to current, yesterday's or potential polls tomorrow's. This is not a position - we have heard this and the independent Member, Mr Theocharis, said so - about television licences. It has nothing to do with building new political jacks. So our position is, for her we are judging, that we shall be called upon to vote - that any deformative mirror changes the proportion of party representation in relation to the percentage they take in the Greek people is a distortion of the popular mandate. That's what we said, that's what we're saying, that's what we're going to keep talking about. In relation to what New Democracy says? That's good for the people's mandate, but we won't have stable governments. Be careful, gentlemen of the New Democracy, why are you slipping on dangerous paths. So, the people's mandate and political stability are contradictory? Answer me. A possible affirmative answer, to support your position against simple analogy, opens way in other directions. We are quite simply saying - and we will always fight for that, apart from what we shall vote on - that the people's mandate should not be distorted. From there on it is in the crisis of our people if they want to work together or self-powered governments according to the power they give each party. In any case, this did not come as a position for the first time on the left. It has been said by a man of your own space: 'In democracy there are no deadlocks.' As far as the minimum rate of entry into Parliament is concerned - I see that time is also pushing - let us not make a reference, because a national issue imposes on us this regulation and we all understand what we mean. Mr. Maniotis has also been mentioned. I just want to add my view that national issues - and they are indeed, I do not disagree with the point he raised - are not treated first and foremost by electoral laws or by articles or by paragraphs of an electoral law. National issues are dealt with by formulating a national policy with the highest social acceptance and the highest political acceptance. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, please for your tolerance. I didn't realize we were given the time of a penny. I'll try to get the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u222	You're unlucky because of you and then the speeches become five minutes. It's not just for you. It's for everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u223	Okay. I'll try to be in my time. There are other issues about the vote of Greeks abroad, etc. I would just like to say that the dialogue did not begin - one Member said it earlier - with the meeting of our Prime Minister with the political leaders. Many issues have been discussed in the past and continue to be discussed. I do not understand what is disturbing about the SYRIZA initiative. Does it bother that the troika wasn't asked? Does it seem that the years of the first parties premium have passed? Or it is annoying that - and I am addressing my fellow Members in the New Democracy - it seems that the time has come to the detriment of society through the party sea-lovings, respectively, and in proportion to the amount of a fictitious influence. And beyond that, I honestly do not understand the attitude of PASOK and Potami. Because it does not include the vote on Greeks abroad, or because there are no other issues to be discussed in full, in your opinion, that is why you are voting against the simple analogue? Allow me, by addressing you, to use the words used by the Parliamentary spokesman of the River, Mr Dannelis, speaking to the government: You have had the historic opportunity to stop, from the first elections to be held today, the frustration of the people's mandate. All the integrated proposals, no matter how much complete amendments, no matter how much full reflection you put forward, badly lies, with your attitude, these integrated proposals and amendments do not come to cover the fact that in this vote you are compiling, synchronise your pace and you are counting behind the position of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u224	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u225	I'm closing, Mr. President. I would like to say that at the moment we are submitting to Parliament SYRIZA's proposal, but in the next elections - thankfully for us - the attitude of all of us will be put before the Greek people and judge us. I think our people have the first reason, and he will take a stand for everyone. Everyone's position is in his judgment. I think that without doubling methods, without regularization, without insulting young people, today is the opportunity to vote to guarantee the free and undisputed manifestation of the popular verdict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, too. Mr Constantinople, Member of the PASOK-DMAR Democratic Association, has the floor for five minutes. Mr Constantinople, please speak five minutes like all the Members, because there are many candidates.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Mr President. I'll try not to exceed time. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, in the last two days you have personally moved me with your love, with your exhortations to vote for the law so that we do not disappear from the political map. Especially, I am being touched when former PASOK officials are speaking today as government ministers. You say my resignation destroyed the country, urging us to vote for the electoral law to save us! Thank you. Personally, with this theatricality of the last few days and now that you are not reaching the two MPs, I could even think about voting for the law!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u228	No, don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u229	Your theatre has gone far beyond every point, you want to rescue us, the destroyers! Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u230	Our obligation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u231	Ladies and gentlemen, let us see now that there are two hundred votes, what was the role of the Golden Dawn, and why, for 15 days, a nationalist party that speaks of clean terms, which speaks clearly to the Greek people, did not say its opinion, while you accepted its votes? What game was he playing so far and who was favouring? To blackmail the Democratic Independence. You have not succeeded, ladies and gentlemen. Today, forty-two years after the coup and the role of the april junta, you should have first said, as Stavros Dimas did, that you do not accept the votes and the aprilian junta, which is Golden Dawn. But you didn't, because you want to believe in one thing, above all everyone and above all, in power.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u232	Look who's talking!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u233	Ladies and gentlemen, after the mere analogy of being smooth in the country and thinking about co-operation, why in 2012 when it could form a government - and even then, without Prime Minister Antonis Samaras - you did not accept it and went to elections to create the New Democracy - SYRIZA? Then we couldn't avoid New Democracy? Why didn't you? What didn't he leave you? Your well-known goals.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u234	You're not getting an answer to this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u235	Ladies and gentlemen - because time passes, however - what do we want? We want a representative and more proportionate system and governance in the country. And here we are very clean towards the New Democracy and SYRIZA. If you want tomorrow morning with the simple analogue of great forming - Germany or whatever - we give you the opportunity to make formation with New Democracy and have more Members, do not need anyone else. After all, a Member has said to you: “Let us not make fun of the world. It may also be necessary." And New Democracy needs to know that we won't consent to the 50-seat bonus. Because the representative system, by reducing, for example, the bonus and partitioning of the regions, has explained to you that it is - with a reduction of twenty Members - 90% proportional to the system. But, why not govern with the New Democracy? You have too much in common. We understand that the New Democracy does not want to have an examination for the period 2004-2009. Why don't you want to bring in an examination for Mr. Karamanlis? In fact, we're all talking about, from the beginning to the end. Secondly, when a first-class New Democracy official asks that there be no SAPA, you come to vote. Accompany with the New Democracy for COSCO transfers to the Greek State! Didn't you consent? Didn't you vote for a portion of people coming to public service together? Finally, follow the best man literally. Now even the best man is not only allowed. They take the works, according to the law of the best man. Three o'clock, he says, he got on the highway, the best man of the best minister. Three in the three auctions that took place! And go to five o'clock! I mean, you brought a law, you voted for it, and the best minister gave the plays to his best man. Bravo! So why not confront New Democracy? Ladies and gentlemen - and here I am addressing us and the Potami - in our hands it is the next day that there should be a progressive proposal in the country. That is why we must next day give citizens the power to vote for our own progressive plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Mr. Constantinople. The Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, Mr Karras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, Mr President. We believe that the debate on a simple analogue is a debate on democracy, it is a debate on essential democracy, because it should be complete without mistakes and without concerns. In its recommendation, the Central Association, regardless of whether we have another brief presence in the House, as a value principle in its programme, states the simple analogue principle, because it considers that each vote should be equal to the unit and should not be less or more. And why am I saying that? Because the electoral law we are discussing today is not a law that will make a government. The way the governments form it is defined by the Constitution. On the contrary, the Constitution says that electoral law is determined by the parliament. So today when we are discussing electoral law we must discuss its substance. So what, in our view, is the essence? The 3% threshold, which is the threshold for party entry in the House. We've heard a lot of points of view. We have heard opinions for national reasons. We have heard the view that there should be no limit and that there should be a complete, 100%, proportionality and we have also heard the view that in European countries the 3% threshold is higher. Our view, if you like, is simple. What do you say? So if we go without a 3% party entry limit, then what do we have? We have 0.3 of the unit, 0.3% to give a seat to the House. That's where we no longer have parties. We have individual candidates. We have random options. We got the ball. We'll drop the ball and wherever it goes to the roulette. On the other hand, we support the entry limit and we support it with awareness and, if you want, with great seriousness, because we do not stand in matters, racial, ethnic, language or anything. We are standing on one occasion. Since the Constitution recognises Article 29 of the parties and since, in order to be able to form a parliamentary group, a proportion of the population in Parliament - which, in order to reflect this 3%, wants ten Members - is 'yes' to 3%, so that the Parliament is made up of parties and not random candidates elected either because they have special acquaintances at home or because other aims, possibly outside national policy, are pursued. We therefore conclude that this provision that puts a threshold in full knowledge, with full consistency and seriousness, we support it. But I want to say something else. We also support something else which we consider to be worthy of, the abolition of the strengthening of seats, the abolition of the so-called bonus. I will not stand in history, if it was 20%, 30% or 50%, as it was in the last law, nor will I stand in the calculations if the system is proportional, with the twenty-seats being 90% support or twenty-five seats is 95%. I shall dwell on something quite different, on the gravity of the vote, on the equivalence of votes, on the equivalence of votes. The vote, since the Constitution grants the Greek citizens the right to vote, every vote is one unit for us. Each man has his own personality, which is to the extent of the one. If we say, then, that we are giving way, even to a small amount of support to the first party, then at least we small parties - are betraying our voters. Because since he is voting for us to represent him in the House, and the gravity of his vote wants to be the only one, we cannot transform that vote into 0.75% or 0.85%, because the first party will take up the seats, so the vote of the first party to take the fifty seats is 1.5%. Democracy doesn't want that. It is a complete distortion of popular will and therefore, in that sense, we are ready to vote and to abolish the bonus. There are many other reasons why they should lead us to vote. Time, however, is running and I do not want to talk about more. There has been a debate which is very interesting for the vote on the motions for resolutions. We have said from the outset that Greece is a country of migrants. A large proportion of our compatriots are outside the border, either for temporary reasons or for definitive reasons. We want them to have the right to vote and if there is a possibility, immediately. Any draft law, any proposal for a law, any amendment to a law that comes to the House - regardless of whether it is a government, regardless of whether it is a party - and allows, finds the procedure, the method by which the direct vote on the results will be ensured, then 'yes'. For the relatives, I want to see something. We are talking about those who maintain Greek citizenship and are on the electoral lists. For them, I think there is no problem with electronics, as it has been promoted. But look for a dialogue and a way of voting for the people. There are too many people, our compatriots, who, for reasons of biopolitics, for long-term foreigners do not currently have the Greek citizenship and are deprived of the right to vote. Let us look for a solution for them too, in the sense that a Member of Parliament per continent should be proportionate. I'm not going to make any suggestions right now. I give the Scorpian thoughts, but we also consider that necessary. As far as the break-up of regions is concerned, we have been particularly accused of this and we have become barons, diverse people of wealth and of interest, because we said that the regions should not be broken. Why did we say that? I take an example of the 2nd Athens constituency, where it was elected. In the second of Athens, there are about one and a half million voters. If, therefore, we reach the division, that is, four or five more different constituencies, the ball will again run if the small parties elect in these regions a Member or because of the electoral law, a Member is elected with a minimum number of votes in the outermost province - I do not want to say - in Greece's extreme prefecture. It will also be honourable, but there will be no regions with one and a half million voters, such as Athens II and tens of thousands of Central Association voters. They will not be represented, as other smaller parties will not be represented. That is why we are opposed to the division of regions and not for number reasons, that is to say how many we are going to elect. Mr. Athanasios said so. Nine? Nine. Ten? Ten. But we also want to represent the large regions. There is also a third issue that we have been accused of, and I would like to say a few thoughts about. They told us that we do not want the country's rulership, since we are voting on the electoral law, because there will be no strong governments, while Greece is in crisis and therefore we need strong governments. I also told the committee that Greece has been in crisis since the day the Greek state was created since 1821. The first "loans of independence" was given in 1822-1823 and terms and surveillance entered. This continued throughout the 20th century. It continues today in the 21st century. We're in a memorial. So, in order to get out of this crisis - we have eight years of crisis, ladies and gentlemen, it is unprecedented worldwide, we have taken the world championship of a country under the supervision of a Memorandum - it wants consent, cooperation, strength of the country's voice so that it can react and negotiate seriously. If we stay, then, in the thought that strong parties and younger ones are needed to help, do you know what I think is being created? What do we want? What has experience of so many years, even with the governments of the last five years with PASOK, then with New Democracy, with DIMAR, again with New Democracy or with PASOK? What did he show? He showed that a party has the leading power, and others are a watch, not to use the sharp word "heavy". What does experience say? It says that the big party is caring for politics and the smaller ones are necessarily following. With the simple analogue, therefore, does not mean that we forgive SYRIZA. We have said so much, and we are going to say so much more in the next few months, or we are going to be judging. All of this will be in the next few days. In this sense, however, the country will be given the opportunity to acquire strong coalition governments. We have also been accused by the JRC's colleagues that we are voices of pluralism, because in our programme we say that in the time of the crisis the multi-retired people must be restricted and the high pensions of the rich should be reduced. They have therefore come to the conclusion that we support pluralism. But it is more obvious that we say that wherever it can, there must be limitations in the present time of crisis, in order to strengthen the lower incomes, the real folk classes. We must not, however, be accused of saying that there are three-fold pensioners, four-fold pensioners. No one can work in three jobs, no one can work in four jobs at the same time. This means that a large percentage of them are graceful. At least to participate in this form, to help the country, to help them along - Greeks, so that we can not get to the cuts that have been made in the previous period by this insurance law, which I called it the 'faithful companion' of man, now the insurance contributions. He even exceeded the tax that followed him since birth. And because Mr. Giolas realized it, I would remind you of something: When the cartoon was in, Mr. Giola, to write the birth order, we were stuck with the ten-ragmat. Even to draw up the death pre-retirement act, a penny cartoon wanted. Tax and death! In this sense, therefore, we have supported our positions on multiple pensions, on high incomes. That does not mean that we have supported pluralism. And, after all, it's funny to say that. I would also like to make a political comment, which is hereafter: SYRIZA's obsession with simply analogous implementation, has unfortunately made the third party, the Golden Dawn, a regulator of political developments in the country. Because with the statement that it will be a long way from voting it has achieved something. Do you know what it worked for? He dismantled SYRIZA's stress, Mr. Famele, for the two seats and created an additional stress in the New Democracy for the reason that the next elections will take place with the aid. And the question of the policy of simply proportionalness to the next elections is now being moved. That's where he'll be judged. And why am I saying that? The next elections will be held with the support of the seats. Therefore, a major issue of the policy of the election debate - and we are saying it from this moment on and from the seat that I have the honour to speak to you - and it will be the main issue of our election campaign: we will ask that the Greek people confirm their commitment to simply proportional. There will be a judgement of what? If New Democracy takes the lead at a high rate - so it will necessarily gain the support of the seats - it means that the Greek people will retain reservations about the simple analogue. If it is to be preceded by a small percentage or not at all, then we can interpret the Greek people as a whole as a whole as analog and in the future, and the country should continue with this electoral system, with democratic representation of all Greeks, so that the unit of vote to be given to us - to me, to the small party - remains equal to one, and the unit should not be changed to 1.5% or 0.80% or 0.75% to my voter. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. If you're kind, give me one more minute. To sum up, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say this. We'll support the law. I had reservations about the vote at seventeen. I thought about it. I was not convinced by the arguments, but I was convinced by another fact that the number, which does not change the real situation, of those who are sixteen and two days if they were born on 31 December of the previous year. This will not influence, not only in the electorate, but will not affect especially those who are still in school. So I think I can take away my reservations at this point today. I shall conclude, Mr President, with something last. And thank you for giving me the special potential. Today, forty-two years have been completed by the Cyprus tragedy. I, at least, experienced almost the closest of it, because I was lucky! - you're fired in those days. So I've lived through some situations. I want there to be no such situation. I want Cyprus to unite, to be given a democratic solution by the great powers and to continue all together, both the Greeks and the Cypriots, a peaceful path of development and progress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u238	The Minister for the Interior, Mr Kourublis, has the floor for eighteen minutes because he is a competent Minister. The rest of the ministers will have the floor for five minutes. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u239	Ladies and gentlemen, we really must pay tribute to the victims of this great tragedy, a tragedy that has caused our own responsibilities and therefore at this difficult time all together, so that we can really create a great democratic, patriotic front for all these sufferings that have lived and live today, the Greek people. Mr President, next to ancient philosophy, which has really dominated the whole world, wisdom, which, with plausible and plausible arguments - the Greek language is so rich - can enable a speaker to shape his thought and his proposals by supporting and turning black into white or white. Today, then, we are discussing a very important bill, which really gives great potential, as well as approaching it. We must, however, clarify the reality, humiliate it and touch its core. Do we have to discuss such a draft law? Do I have to? Is it useful? Ladies and gentlemen, does anyone doubt that there has been a democratic deficit in the country all these years? Does anyone disagree that there was a crisis of representativeness in the country? Does anyone disagree that the measurements made each time show a huge lack of confidence in the political system and politicians? Can anyone support, ladies and gentlemen, that 40% of people, who are mostly civilised, are absent from public affairs, right or wrong? When someone puts these down when he sees that politicians with rhetoric and cynicism are incriminating the involvement of the people, when one sees the institutions not responding to the needs of society, all this must concern us and discuss them. If this debate takes place in the light of personal controversy, disagreement and tracing, it shows that we do not have the mental courage at this historic moment to do a great deal of enthusiasm. There it seems the bravery of a political person who can even exceed himself and see what is in the interest of the country right now. I shall, therefore, start from history, from the time of Alexander Papanastassiou, who was one of the generators of the democratic party, who supported the need for these choices. Why? Random? No, I think so. The democratic party has always advocated and contributed to efforts of this type, in the broadest sense, the Left and the democratic space, as it is commonly said, without questioning that the New Democracy is not a democratic party - far from me such a thought - as was termed this place, as was determined. He always had a tendency in this direction, even if he hadn't reached it. You know - I told you yesterday in committee: in 1964 the government of the Old Democrat Republic took 53% and a hundred and seventy-two seats. The government of Constantine Karamanlis in '74, with the mistake made by the late Georgios Black and advocated, with an over-advanced analogue, you took twelve seats, with the same percentage! To see the difference of perceptions and approaches. And PASOK came in '89. I would like here to give a parentheses - let me the New Democracy - because someone has also given the Chief the wrong information. Come more read. The law wasn't the Koutsogiger. It had nothing to do with this law. So don't say it, because whoever knows is arresting you and indisputable. So the PASOK came and brought the simple analogue, and the Left did not vote for it, under the specific circumstances and purposes. Did he win? Then the Left had many arguments to say that PASOK did this, did the other thing, didn't do it, didn't do the other thing. She didn't make her rise, and she didn't win. And because things are judged in politics as a result, do not rush, all of us are judged by the Greek people. So I come to New Democracy. First, shocking: "Why did you bring it now and not bring it the day after you took over the country's rule?" Is that a good argument to say? We have two and a half years in front of us, and you are coming and saying that this time is at issue. Who are you convincing? Idiot verbs. New Democracy's second attempt: 'Political stability'. Yes, sir. You, as Mr Mitsotakis has just assumed, that you are fighting for political stability, have asked a government elected five months ago to overturn. And you waited - this story will charge you, that's the opportunism and political hindrance - not to complete the evaluation, so that the government would fall. Ladies and gentlemen, with great respect - because I believe in democracy and I do not believe that the people are wise only when voting for us, is the people always wise on a personal level when voting for us or not in a party - I ask you: are you ready? You are so ready in this time or you have so much indebtedness to go back to the chairs, supporting something, which I will tell you is not democratic - I do not want to describe it - that 'we are the only ones who have the only truth that we know, that we are capable, that we can, which...' So you must always rule, and no one else. Everyone else is something different and negative about the place. Only you love this place, only you know his interest, but you still wanted to overthrow the government. So, political instability, when you know, the very 'patriots', the'super-patriots', that the country, to go to development, wants political stability. So be patient. Because I hear you talk about the goulops, you show that you are also inadmissible. You have not learned from the sufferings of the golops. However, since you believe these very reliable pollsters in the country, who know how they have worked over the years, I will tell you something else: to accept that the pollsters are giving you at this moment in time, at the most difficult times for the government, a head start. Yes, sir. The lead given by the polls, the polls and the surveys in the simple analogues? Did you read this or didn't you read it? If you read it, you seem to ignore it, get over it, because that's probably the way it works for you. For a total of 58% and 40% of the voters in the New Democracy, because the New Democracy can also represent it as parliamentarians, but it has people thinking about it. Do you know what the world says, gentlemen of the New Democracy? Because I am speaking - and you know it very well - with people from all sides. What does the New Democracy world say? "Hey, children, these stability policies we have had all these years, why have they not prevented the crisis of dreadful and destructive"? Because you use words easily, as if you had no responsibility. No, no, no, no, no, You have no responsibility for what has happened at home. You have no responsibility for the disaster, for having taken the debt to 350 billion. You have no responsibility for the fact that pharmaceutical expenditure has reached 15 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u240	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u241	Let me talk. I've listened very carefully. You'll listen to me and then you'll talk. Leave it now. When I told you, "send the case to the D.A....
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u242	Leave the drugs. You don't have to talk about drugs. Go somewhere else.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u243	When I told you "send the case to the prosecutor", Mr. Loverde, you did what you did not hear, because you wanted to help some things. Let go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u244	You're welcome, Mr. Kurubli.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u245	There's a lot of witnesses at the Health Center, what I told you and what you did.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u246	Please do not address yourself personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u247	There's a lot of witnesses. Let go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u248	Leave the drugs. Go somewhere else.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u249	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u250	I'll see you when the time comes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u251	Don't address yourself personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u252	You should say that somewhere else. Not here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u253	I'm telling you personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u254	Do not address yourself personally, because you are causing a debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u255	Mr President, I did not say...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u256	They're asking for the speech on personal grounds, and we're getting away. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u257	Who are you addressing, Mr. Kremastein?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u258	I said don't personally address...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u259	Who are you addressing? Did I interrupt anyone?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u260	I didn't think you'd be interrupted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u261	Let go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u262	Who interrupted him, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u263	Do not address yourself personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u264	Who intervened, Mr. Kremastein? Did I refer to faces?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u265	Personally, do not address yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u266	No, Mr. President. Please. The Minister didn't refer to names. Mr. Loverdos disrespected him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u267	You're welcome. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u268	Because you made this intervention when they despised Andreas Papandreou, you good socialists never defended him. You let Adoni curse Andreas Papandreou and I never heard you in this House defend him. That is the truth, my dear companions. And not at that time, you dare say about the events of '08 and '09. There were some people, including speakers, who have always spoken about this period. Hold on a second. So the New Democracy says: 'State governments'. Let me ask you: Is pluralism one of the causes of the country's progress? Does anyone question it? Is it not a product of stable governments? Let me tell you something else, which has sincerely made me ashamed as Greek and as a political executive. I was, therefore, in a meeting where he was a high government official of a European country, which, if I say so, you will understand that it is considered much lower than Greece. So he pulled out the tablet, signed an electronic document, sent it where he wanted to send it, to a member of his country's administration, and in ten minutes he got an update on what was going on. Can it be done right now in Greece? So you want to call the government again. Your right to democracy if the Greek people say so. But you will answer the Greek people because you have spent EUR 7 billion on e-government. And what if you go, dear friends of the New Democracy, to Mr. Cortzidis in Piraeus, who is now President at the Chamber, to whom I went the other day and ask him "does he contact one of the Chambers with the other?" - not to tell you what's going on in public administration, you know better, you've been ruling for twenty years - because it's been closed...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u269	You are in the fifteenth minute, Mr Kurubli, as you have told me to inform you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u270	All right, Mr. President. You'll give me two minutes, because there's been an interruption.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u271	I'm telling you this because you told me to let you know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u272	So when we have this reality at the moment, we are afraid to go into a system, when we know that all Europe is actually working on a simple analogue basis. And we think stability is just the one that can get the country out of the deadlock. It was stability, which could not protect the country from these deadlocks. So we may find ourselves in a creative dialogue in common goals. After all, since Roman times, the Tribune mode has convinced to date that political systems are adapted to the needs of the time. And we can really, dear friends, find ways. After all, once again - and this concerns all of us - the maturity of our operation and our coexistence will finally come, because through cooperation, particularly the homogeneous ones, we can also ensure transparency - which we did not have with the stable governments - and more powerful controls between the political system and Parliament gain greater power. We all know and we are all witnessing - and Members of the New Democracy and PASOK MPs, I have been PASOK MP for years - who were ruling every time. It was the most witnessing moment of the MP elected and was a government MP. I know most of you say I'm right. That is the truth, because no one asks the Member. No one was asking the congressman. And the congressman was asked to apologise for acts for which he had no responsibility. So all this has not been protected by stability. Let's not get into the sense of fear. After all, an electoral system like this is not to become the next day alone. It's to move on. You see, ladies and gentlemen, from the wider progressive space, the obsession of the New Democracy, which even insisted on not making a small correction and saying, 'I also allow the parties to take this bonus'. No, one party will take it. Even that's not what they dare do. I should like to close, Mr President, by saying this: I have heard a lot about the regional issue. And I heard some orators from this Step - and ladies - referring to black money. Yes, sir. That's how it came to me at that time to make my cross. Lord will put my mouth in jail. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the vote on Greeks abroad, the Greeks who once left in the 1950s and 60s, who were the strong sides of Greece and who have now left the strong minds, are it also the current government's fault? Who sent them? And now you tell them you care about them, to vote. Yes, to vote. Be patient. You haven't done that all these years. Mr. Athanasiou told me that he was a tripartite government and was prevented from doing this. That's what he said. I can't believe it. I do not believe that neither the Democratic Left nor the PASOK would prevent that, but you did not. And I don't see you asking for an apology. I sincerely tell you that we all owe - everyone with their role - to be accountable to these young children. And you didn't. No one has done so, say 'yes', but now you are only crying about the vote. Hey, let go. Today's government is SYRIZA and ANELs and Efologists Greens. When the end of this four-year period comes and this government does not do this national debt, it will be accountable, as you are now, because you had the opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, since 2000, to do so and you did not say a serious argument why you did not do so. That's the truth. And then, perhaps, we'll meet in the common place, because it's an issue that has technical details, it's not a simple matter. Besides, you know very well that when you filed the bill, the Greeks of America reacted negatively. Therefore, make a little patience. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Be patient, then, to see the issue of the regions and to talk about it. And we'll see who has proposals then. I will say one more thing, Mr President, and I will close. For three months, the speaker tabled a number of points. Until that time when the Central Committee of SYRIZA decided and tabled this bill, with differences from what I said, I - I am not one of the people to hide what I said, but I am one of the people who learned to defend the majority decision and to have my mind openly, I do not have the only truth - where was the New Democracy to break the regions? I don't want to talk about MPs coming to my office telling me what they were telling me. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] So you say about the break-up of the regions. When did you talk about breaking the districts?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u273	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u274	When did you talk about breaking the districts? All these arguments have been invented since the SYRIZA bill was submitted. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] So where does logic lead things? In the fact that you had a conscious choice, the New Democracy to sell what it wanted to sell - it thinks that the Greek people have a goldfish memory - and the other progressive forces have found the reason not to agree. They have the democratic right. That's what they judged. All of us will be judged by history and then we will see, at the end of the four-year period, that society and the forces of democracy and the forces that come from the wider democratic area will restrain every attempt to restore this regressive right. Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, Mr. Kurubli. Before I give the floor to Mr Dendia, I would like to make it clear that I have repeatedly recommended that other ministers say what they want of course, but do not address names, because the Members are asking for the floor immediately afterwards and a personal debate begins, which does not end easily, and we are escaping from the point of view of the debate. There is no reason for me to intervene to tell the Minister what he will say. For God's sake! Let's get this straight. The Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr. Dendias, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u276	Mr President, for the simple reason that the Parliamentary spokesman for Civilian Representation is used to respond to the previous competent and proposed Minister. In this case, however, the Minister who recommends the piece of legislation in about twenty minutes, who spoke - nineteen, and I counted it - did not notice that he would make available a single minute for the legislation itself. It was set up in general references. The biggest part was New Democracy. We thank him for indirect advertising. But on the substance of the provisions of this law and their necessity, in addition to the usual surnames of democracy, etc., and you will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to tell you that it is probably a bit too much for this society to be constantly invoked by one, allegedly, democratic on your part - he has not told us anything. I understand, of course, very well - and I do not say it less for the Minister - that he does not believe this law. He said so himself, as much as his role allowed him. He said: 'I come here because he imposes on me another majority'. And I have to say, a party to which it has recently joined. He's doing a duty. He's carrying something he doesn't believe. In this role he has our complete and unequivocal sympathy, because we know very well that his views on the electoral system are very close to our own views. But what are the motives of the government? Why is it now bringing electoral law? You say it's politically neutral time. That's not true now. We know that well. And to be honest, there is not a minute in this government's life that is politically neutral. This government whether it is making referendums, it is either a crisis, it is either a problem or an election machine. What the government claims as a great title, three expressions of popular will in about twelve months, shows precisely that there is no politically neutral time here. The reality is that following the vote on economic measures, the government is with its back on the wall. And the government had to seek out a way out, not excluding the use of the polls over the years. And that's why the current legislation brings us. Of course, she believed - and here is her flaw - that she could have two hundred votes, that is to say she would be able to vote for a law which will apply to the next elections. If colleagues vote in the way that the parties' wishes have been expressed so far, the government will be facing a major political defeat tomorrow evening. Because this law - do not fool ourselves - if it does not apply to these elections, it is likely that it will never apply, because a new majority, this law will abolish it. I'll come to the end of how and why. That, however, is the question of the government, if you will, and of us, the opposition, in the debate with her on why she brings this law. But there is, ladies and gentlemen, a much more important issue concerning the place and society and the national interest, and in which I think we could all have a genuine dialogue. Is the place in which the simple analogue is concerned, regardless of whether this is the declared concept of the Left in its loyal and sacred ways, or is it contrary to our also proclaimed concept - stable since 1974 - against mere analogy? Indeed, I would remind you, against mere analogy, in times where it was obvious - as in 2008 - that we would lose the next elections. However, in the interests of the country, we have remained firm in our understanding of the enhanced proportion, which at that time did not suit us. We also know very well, ladies and gentlemen, that this position - the Minister told us - is not popular. We know that 58% of the electorate on the first question, without a debate, is against our position on the enhanced proportion. We know. However, we insist on what we consider to be right. First of all, the Constitution does not provide for a electoral system in Greece. This is no accident, because it is not happening in all countries. There are specific countries in Europe, which are in the Constitution, the electoral law. Why is that so, ladies and gentlemen? It is precisely because, given the Greek conditions, the constitutional legislature - for over forty years - provided the joint legislature with the electoral system in order to protect the need to create a government at the place. For electoral law has two elements to serve: first of all, proportionality and, secondly, governance. Proportionality does not mean what the average person on the road understands. Proportionality means the same votes under the same regime, in the same regions, to have the same effect. The enhanced proportion is also proportional, as is the simple analogue. It is not a system that misleads the people's will. It is not nice to call electoral systems that way. Game rules that are specified in advance. Why can I tell you this: Let us assume in a perfectly simple analogue when a party has 49.9% and in order to form a government it needs another 0.4% - if we assume that there is no entry limit in Parliament - that 0.4% is not directly disproportionate to 49.9%? Is this proportional representation at the level of will formation? It's not true. The second, beyond proportionality, is rulership. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece must have stable governments. I've heard a lot about the post-multiple governments. Of course, the Governments of Transmigration have done a lot wrong. But they did, ladies and gentlemen, and very well. The country's gross national product has doubled in recent years. It is still in the crisis too many times more than it was in 1974. We can have a very long debate about the good and bad of post-population. Besides, the Central Left, as PASOK, has ruled for more years than us. But I want to ask you for one thing. What don't I like? I do not like executives who participated in the political process, in another formation, to come now and condemn these supposedly evil forty years. It's not nice. It's not right. He's not honoring anyone. To have a good conversation, if you want, once for the forty years of post-multi-population, and if many left-wings are honest, to talk about their own participation. How many times have the leftists asked the then governments to cut costs, cut wages, cut pensions, stop recruitment? How many times did they ask for it? How many times did the universities ask to settle? How many times have local authorities asked to settle? Is there a request, from 1974 to today - a request, any request - for an increase, for intake, for anything, that the Left has not signed? Well, let's know. But now suddenly it's all become bad. And then, did they get bad from those who were always there, get bad from others who were detached from there? And they put the stone first? Ladies and gentlemen, in Greece, too, we have experience of mere analogy. We don't see her for the first time in front of us. The simple analogue has been applied in Greece and has created as a product twenty-six governments. Twenty-six governments in the course of the newest Greek state have come from a mere analogue system. Do you know what the average survival of these governments is? Five months and something for each of them. This is the product of mere analogy in Greek history. So that's what we want? Do you want to go to Europe, which, when we want to embrace it, when we do not want to deport it? Let's go to our friends, the Italians. Where did the simple analogy end in Italy? In Mani pulite. To Mr. Kraxi fugitive in Tunisia, to Antonio Di Petro, to prosecute against all, almost involved in the political system. That's what Italy simply did. There was nothing that corruption hadn't touched for years. Germany, ladies and gentlemen? Germany has not just analogous now. It's a much more complicated system. You want to talk about it? We should talk about it, but it's not just proportional. But Germany, ladies and gentlemen, has simply been proportionate. Do you know what the result of the German simple analogy was? Elections, 6-11-1932. Nationalist party 33.1%, along with von Papen's party, from then on President Hindenburg, as you well know, has shown Chancellor Adolf Hitler as Chancellor. Do we regard this as a success German example for the simple analogue? Ladies and gentlemen, this piece of legislation finds originals. Age: Let's go to sixteen, because they're not seventeen. By the way, Minister, I must thank you, because my sixteen-year-old son will vote for me. Born 27-12-2000.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u277	Harin on the Left.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u278	Don't call me left. You're not. Is it reasonable for young people to vote for sixteen years? It was said by too many speakers. Then why not fifteen? And why not fourteen? Why not thirteen? Why not eleven? Why not ten? To increase, he says, participation in politics.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u279	And why eighteen? You said the same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u280	Are we serious? Is this the way to increase participation in politics? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to have as a government a consistent position on an age limit for sharing in common. Do you know what that would mean? That in every piece of legislation you are tabling and in the existing law of the country you would have made changes. You know very well that both in the Criminal and the Civil Code, incapacitation is eighteen. That's the limit. You know very well that under eighteen is limited of responsibility. You have brought legislation, Minister of Justice, and I have seen no change in that direction. Can I tell you the ridiculous one? In April 2016, you who have a structured view of young people and want to put them in society and in the world, tabled the sporting legislation: "Need arrangements for the harmonisation of Greek legislation with the Antidopting Code". Do you know where you put the age limit two and a half months ago? At eighteen, ladies and gentlemen. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And you want to tell us now that it's not your micro-party feasibility, hope to join some of these eighty thousand votes, which leads you to sixteen? Do you really think young people will accept these viciously? But you are supposed to be interested in expanding the electorate. Yes, sir. I have not heard a serious response from the Greek Parliament. Not even one. In fact, the Minister said, in an effort to bring us in a difficult position, the following: Who kicked these five hundred thousand young people out? Who kicked them out and forced them to go abroad? You, the governments of the memorials. That's what he told us. Very nice, ladies and gentlemen of the government. Do you want us to kick them out? Therefore, obviously we are charged with being abroad. So if they want to vote, they want us to punish. So why don't you give them the right to vote, since you're so sure who's to blame for being abroad? But can I tell you something else? Do you know what you're afraid of? You were afraid of one thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u281	Don't rush to expose yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u282	No, I'm not in a hurry. If you want to agree now to vote on the abstaining Greeks, I will be happy to accept it. I'm pressing you, she's not exposing me. It's a title of honor to me. The fact that you are being prevented and late to accept that self-evident, this exposes you, ladies and gentlemen of the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u283	I protect you, don't say something that it exposes you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u284	But do you know what you're afraid of in these people? I'll tell you what you're afraid of. You fear that all these people, the five hundred thousand brilliant Greeks, who were forced to leave in the crisis, the five hundred thousand new Greeks, will vote on the basis of a criterion: who will allow them to find a job and return home.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u285	Fifteen years you have to say why you didn't do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u286	They know very well that this is not the SYRIZA - ANEL government. So they will vote for us in the New Democracy, and that is why you do not dare bring it. I finally end up with the question of the application of the law. Ladies and gentlemen, the President-in-Office of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, has made one thing clear, with absolute openness and openness, that we will abolish it. We will abolish it immediately after the next elections, since, of course, the Greek society gives us the right to be, as we believe, the majority power and the next government. You'll tell me where you'll find the double votes so it'll never apply. I'll tell you. There are already two hundred votes in this Chamber, possibly, through the new structure, which will be there. Of course, it is possible and we will probably have to discuss the bonus, but beyond that, the lasting system that the country needs to acquire is a system of scrupulously enhanced analogy, not a system of absurd simple proportionality. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the country does not need a simple analogue, it needs simple logic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u287	Thank you, Mr. Treasury. Mr Pappas, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, has the floor for 15 minutes. Mr. Poppa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u288	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, during yesterday's sitting I attended the position of the rapporteurs and the speeches of the Members of Parliament and of the Co-Population and Opposition. For many days before yesterday's meeting, I was entertaining myself with the disinformation office about the position of the Golden Dawn. SYRIZA and the outdated journalists took a given number of positive votes to ninety - seven. I was really enjoying their immature political thoughts, which shows that they do not know what political consistency means and much more do not know what faith is in their homeland, people and nationalism. How could this be done with people who have taken the opportunity to believe in the dictatorship of the proletariat and now are the best expressions of the dictatorial capitalist Europe and of the loan-to-gold capitalists? On the other hand, I was entertained by the "Murutic" propaganda campaign of the New Democracy, which tried to muddle against the Golden Dawn. I would very much like to see the face of the wretched mudsmiths who were inspired by the "SYRIZE SYRIZE". HYPERLINK \h It is right that the competitor Elias Cassidy, who is celebrating today, said - and I convey his words exactly - that 'The debate is done without substance for disorientation'. The Golden Dawn will not support this piece of legislation for certain reasons, in principle related to its content. It is fragmentary and does not include our standing positions, such as the reduction in the number of Members of Parliament and the vote of the homosexuals. The debate only serves the government's micropolitical plans and as a smokescreen attempts to disorientate public opinion from the recent sale of ports and the port of Piraeus in 'COSCO', but also from the railways against a price that is not acceptable. And the Cassiri competitor continued, saying that "I have to answer some politically..." - I will say it more raki - "when they appeared on the channels and said that we have found them with SYRIZA and that we have made underground agreements. If they are men, they should go out publicly and admit that they are liars and slanders." Ladies and gentlemen, by closing this chapter of political fraud, I would like to point out that there are political anodories that lick where they spit, which unfortunately have the nerve to put in their mouths the clear and impeccable Golden Dawn. I mean the right-wing, popular right-wing, philosopher-right, far-right - how do I call him? - "Political Komanetsi" Vice President of the New Democracy, who said in a speech yesterday - I read Mr.Georgiadis's words - "The two-vote votes are not coming out and the others go out, so that you don't get on you and the anchor that you're going to hang out with Golden Dawn. Of course, if you were to find two hundred votes and the Golden Dawn voted, you would have the double votes and then, as Mr. Voutsis said, what would you do? As good leftists, you cannot separate votes in welcome and unwelcome." Mr. Georgiadis, gentlemen of the New Democracy, you judge the perverse yourself, but the Golden Dawn you can't catch it in your mouth. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, with our political stance, that is, to whistle you for three days with our political positions and leave the vote tomorrow, we are proving what the Greek people have already known for four years, that the Golden Dawn is neither the tail of anyone, nor the SYRIZA nor the New Democracy. Golden Dawn is not offered as a political helmet in any of your xenocratic memorial parties. SYRIZA's tenth and tail is New Democracy. It's the party of Mr. Mitsotakis' Officerial Response. He voted for the third memorandum a year ago, along with SYRIZA, and further cast the Greek people into tolerance and unemployment. Vote for the cohabitation pact. Together, they passed the anti-racist laws. The New Democracy met with SYRIZA, the patriotous New Republic of the so-called "Patris, religion, family". Ladies and gentlemen, if you have a trace of ignorance left, do not use and never put this sacred trifle of Hellenism into your mouth again. Along with SYRIZA, you voted to create Islamic mosques. Together you made statements about the reception of hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants, typical of the latest statement by the spokesman of the New Democracy Mr. Kumoutsakou, who said: "If we do not maintain tolerance to diversity, we will be defeated." After all this, naive and easy-to-be voters of the New Democracy, always betrayed, ask: Who is SYRIZA's hen? Is Michaliokos, who, within Parliament, said that we want a nation, blessed by God or by Mr Mitsotakis, who, according to the cohabitation pact, dismantles the family, who, with the bargaining for the separation of church - state, breaks up religion and traditions, which, with his xenophile neoliberal policy, breaks up their homeland and country? So this is to end lies, gentlemen of the New Democracy. The Golden Dawn puts above all, even of its short-term political interest, the good of the Greek nation, the security, the prosperity and perspective of the Greek people. That is what we are doing consistently, even politically persecuted. How much we care if, with the electoral law you bring to the vote, we would take some seats above. For us it is in the interest of the Greek people. Greeks, SYRIZA and New Democracy are seriously harming their homeland. Let us now come to the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Giola, who said that the simple analogue was a permanent and time-consuming demand from the Left. Mr. Giola, the other fixed requests that have been made? Social justice, what happened? Social justice with HISPIAN? Social justice with pensions of EUR 100? Social justice with the abolition of the CSCE? Socio-social justice, which has all the ribbles in the unpredictable? And not to say that we are, unfortunately, leveling out in the ruling economic oligarchy, in the ruling economic order of post-multipleism, there are too many lame. So social justice on the left. Social justice or protection of capital states? You're dying on the left. Your future, ladies and gentlemen of the Left, is predetermined and will be the same as your JRC partners, who did not raise a head after the terrible conflict with New Democracy in 1989. You will have the same political future. Even your fans understand that the Chief of the Left today, in an orderly service, how much he cares about the future of the Greek people, nor about the future of the Left and its prolongation. SYRIZA's rapporteur himself said that the system of elections was seeking to ensure that the respective governments stayed at all costs in power and that this system resulted in a minority of the electorate becoming a parliamentary majority. The hanged man's house doesn't talk about rope. You're a minority, gentlemen of SYRIZA, and you know it. You seek to stay in power at all costs for the country and the Greek people. In any case, if you wanted to be consistent, you should bring this draft law to a vote in February 2015. You have already been elected bonuses and a majority in the last elections of September. Why are you talking? To come to the other member of the real conflict, New Democracy. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Mavroudis Voridis, said that the new electoral law did not address the question of the internal party functioning of the parties and the question of the funding of the parties. Does Mr. Vorides know what he's talking about? How much stolen, actually, has his party owed and borrowed from the Greek people? Loan and unscrupulous. Whatever kind of economic scandal stone you raise, a neo-democrat will find. Similarly, the former 'nationalist', Mr Vorides, has a profound perception. No matter what treacherous scandal you're digging, a Neo-Democrat, you'll find a Doyako underneath. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: And don't propose, Mr. Vorides, your professional status as a lawyer to justify, because you are primarily a political person. And to paraphrase the phrase, I say that 'Caesar's wife must not be honest, but must also be honest.' Also greed leads man to destruction. The Golden Dawn is tabling two amendments, which we will once again table in the Minutes for the history of the future. [[At this point the Member, Mr Christos Papapas, presents for the Minutes the above-mentioned amendments, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] These amendments are also political positions of the Golden Dawn. We are calling, first of all, for the roll-call vote to be adopted. I ask: why would the letter vote be acceptable to Members? Tomorrow night, Members' letters will be accepted. Why should the letter vote be for Members and there be no Greek citizens? Why should bishop votes not be accepted for the wonderful Greeks abroad? The Golden Dawn also tabled an amendment, which I have tabled in the Minutes, to establish the number of Members of Parliament in the number of two hundred. This is reasonable, in proportion to the population of the Greek state. If you accept this amendment - which you will not accept - you would certainly show care for the Greek people at these difficult times and save a respectable amount from the budget, the cost of a hundred Members. With this amendment, a further blow is given to the party state, regardless of color, blue, red or pink. There is a blow to the rosphetology, to the parties, to the "Gruises" of urban centres and province, which have been stirring the Greek people for decades. In any case, with this measure of reducing Members to two hundred, evil is being reduced. Last night, at the time of the Bunny competitor, there was an tension in the Bureau - Mr Kaklamanis was President-in-Office - who asked for his position to be deleted. I convey exactly the words of Mr Rabbit: 'If this electoral law goes through the votes of scams and thieves, you don't mind'. What is the stress of the Bureau? Not to say that the political life of the country - now but before, throughout the post-government period - is found to be fraudulent and thieves? Is that what you're worried about? I'm asking you: wasn't Chohatzopoulou a MP? Papantoniou wasn't a congressman? They come from another planet? The committees of inquiry which you are setting up in Parliament for the settlement of scandals and the performance of responsibilities, what do they show? They're showing for you at least shades of evidence. For the Greek people, however, they have no meaning at all, because they know that forty-two years you have eaten them together! Ladies and gentlemen and Greeks and Greeks you see us, we Greek nationalists have been kept and kept proud and strong, loyal to our mission, along with the Greeks and through the grim political environment of recent years, we have founded our struggle for new Greece day after day. Through murders, persecutions, endless mud, we kept the flag high and we kept both our honor and our dignity toward our ideas and our homeland. With our abstention from tomorrow's vote we say 'no' to the sad protectorate of the inverted political leaders, we say 'no' to xenophobia and subjection, we say 'no' to the narcotic memorial and the sale of the country, we say 'no' to globalisation and economic oligarchy. At the same time, we say a great 'yes' to social justice and social solidarity, we say 'yes' to Orthodoxy and Greek tradition, we say 'yes' to the new Greece of nationalism. We want our country back and we'll take it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u289	Thank you, Mr. Pappa. Parliamentary spokesman for the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u290	Ladies and gentlemen, day of memory for the Cyprus Coup d'état, day of remembrance for what was followed by the Turkish invasion and occupation. We, the members and members of the Democratic Integration, declare to the Greek Parliament that we will not forget what has happened, we will not omit, considering the Cyprus issue as a problem of invasion and illegal occupation, to be at the side of the Cypriot people until the final solution, until the final fair and sustainable solution. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I get to the point, I would like to make a very brief reference - because tomorrow we have the draft law of the Ministry of Defence and there we will definitely discuss it - in the unfortunate statements made by the Deputy Minister of National Defence, Mr Vitsa, on the extradition of the eight Turkish militarymen who came to the country illegally. This power belongs to justice at first and foremost, rather than to executive power, and the problems that can be created by the alpha or beta selection of the competent organs of the Greek state are too much. It takes great attention, seriousness, because the problem has this dimension, but it may have others. Anyone who now reads the news will see that the problem may be wider. Therefore, diligence and misguided statements do not do well. And now I'm going to the point. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow evening we will conclude another political defeat of the SYRIZA and Prime Minister personally. After the cubes - Varoufakis, referendums, third useless, inappropriate memorandum, insurance, 24% VAT, orgy of taxes, false parallel programs, red loans and others - it is time, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, to lose you on a political issue that you have opened in a violent and unmistakable manner. As far as we are concerned, I refer to the political initiatives of the five points of the Democratic Incorporation, as expressed by Mrs Gennamata's leader, days ago, but also to the very detailed positions of Mr Kostas Scandalidis, our rapporteur in the Greek Parliament, both in committee and yesterday in plenary. Ladies and gentlemen, these are our positions and on the basis of them - let us remember - we invited you weeks ago to set up, on your own initiative, a intergroup committee, which would listen to everyone's views, weigh them up, level up and come the final proposal - common to most of them - in the House in September, that is, in time. There wouldn't be a cross-party conversation in order for the ball to go to the stands. It would be a debate that would end in time - we scheduled for September - and all together or most - I repeat - would table joint proposals to change the rules of political game, which concerns the expression of popular sovereignty, not any issue, the genuine expression of popular sovereignty. We and these initiatives have been taken and appreciated by at least some of the majority Members. And we say that these are our positions to those who wonder what we and what we were talking about at other times. You rejected all of this as a majority and proceeded with violence and haste and preoccupation in the implementation of your own party planning, electoral law with doses - such as the Deputy Minister of the Interior, Mr Balafas, yesterday, has admitted other colleagues who were saying today for next phases, in which something else will come here on election grounds - and basically, on a second party, which is no longer a first. He thinks it is second and wants to have the political field open after September for any political developments he will want - or already thinks - to start. That's all you are. This is your tactic and it is so obvious, I wonder how you do not understand that it is obvious and that it has been made evident from the first moment: if your exhaustion policy continues, you can at any time be able to do something that is voted on on 21 July, be ready to start political developments. And unfortunately, you were defeated and failed. Unfortunately for you. Fortunately for Greek citizens. You have ignored all our proposals. I explained how and why. And you started the mud on a political level and on a personal level for so-called relations with the New Democracy of our own and for allegedly the positions of our President, which are of interest to Mr Mitsotakis. And not just that kind of mud. Another personal sludge for many of us. And since I am referring to the New Democracy, which is the basis of your mudology, I would like to address the colleagues of the New Democracy and its President. So many weeks of discussion of the election campaigns and no mention of the 50 seats bonus? Is the 50-seat bonus good? Does it express you? I remind you that we had it on forty with the Scandalidis law. Mr Pavlopoulou, the current President of the Republic, took it to 50. Exaggeration? Mr Scandalides explained that a law with thirty bonus seats basically and almost 95% is proportional. Why 50? Why not a single word from New Democracy in this whole debate about this? Yes, the constituencies. Is that all that about? An initiative? One initiative, Mr. Parliamentary Representative, Mr. Twelfths. A timelinessed initiative. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that this violent and unspeakable tactic of the SYRIZA, only the Civic Opposition, is favouring, because another tactic, such as the one we have proposed, with an intergroup, would work. But you didn't want that. You didn't want that. And I am doubtful that we are also a Democratic Reconciliation, and the Civic Opposition, which has not been taken clean, clearly relevant initiatives. Well, mud! In this mud I had my honor, but I ignore it as we ignore you and collectively, because your Prime Minister, who himself has described himself in relation to what he said in the Civic Opposition, played games here too. He didn't serious. And the Secretary-General of the Communist Party revealed him. But he was telling a leader. One metre to vote for this party. With the other measure, vote on the other party. How are we supposed to vote together? How will there be two hundred votes to play your tactical political game? And since I have spoken about these tricks and toys, I cannot omit, I am not justified omitted to omit the other trick - unfortunately - with the revision of the Constitution. Revision of the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen, yes. In all these years, when this Constitution is the case, we have identified its weaknesses where the people hurt, the problems it creates in development, the obstacles to growth that red tape is right in both administration and justice. That's the big deal. And instead of beating on it, you are proposing a direct election of the President of the Republic as the crown of the proposal you will make for the revision of the Constitution, for which, in our own head, the Prime Minister said that he was going from January 2017, and now that you are defeating the two-voting votes of the electoral law, for reasons of communication, you bring it. You who have not been able to open a train line for five months to take our products to the rest of Europe, will you now tell us how it will be done in the Constitution? Will you now tell us what you will do and what will you do with the revision of the Constitution? Your inadequacy is betrayed by this proposal for the immediate election of the President of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, instead of the essentials, it is being tabled as the crown of an effort that will be made, a regulation which brings Greece back to the Middle War, when the administration of executive power, the two-head executive power - the Prime Minister, many of the Heads of State or King, or the president, depending on who he was - brought Parliamentary rule - the Parliamentary city, to know what we say - with one week, ten days, twenty days, one month. Check out the record of government instability in Greek democracy, in the second Greek democracy during the Middle War, and make a comparative report to understand what you are proposing. Because, regardless of the powers of the President of the Republic, a direct election of him makes a single representative body in the strongest political town, he has no political authority for a democracy. This childish suggestion is also made by the pediatric reasons given by the Prime Minister in an interview with a channel "here we elect a community president, will we not elect a President of the Republic?". Incomprehensible for state political intervention, which would be useful for rethinking. But return to the electoral law. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, how many of you here are elected on bonuses? Aren't you ruling in two bonus-based elections? Did you suggest his change in good time? You didn't. And with a delusional dialogue, because the electoral law... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, you are saying that you will stay until 2019, with an election law that you have denounced and condemned here by majority colleagues, one after another. But if that were the case, if you didn't like it, you should have, as other parties have said that will support you, you should have moved earlier and you didn't. I repeat, a process of parody dialogue, which does not suit a Member State - a Member State of the European Union, without a headline view, with a call - gave it for the purposes of two hundred votes, and so quite rightly - and before the placement of the Golden Dawn - your very serious political defeat, the defeat of populism, lies and false attempt, the failed attempt to change the agenda of the Greek people and our homeland had come. During this debate, especially at the beginning, the Minister for the Interior took political initiatives. It's good. That's how a interior minister should do. However, he took a political initiative to convince others of an electoral law that he said on 16 May - if it were a abolition of the bonus and a simple analogue - that it would lead to insolence. He said others, that it leads to forced cooperation between the New Democracy and SYRIZA. He said more. He was very hostile and today he says "but I must respect the majority". Yes, if you respect the majority, and it's your opinion of the country's course, you resign from the Minister of the Interior, you stay a member of the Couple and you vote. You're not on every point, for every point, for as basic as what he said, available to suggest that others rather than you want. And that's not enough. He specifically addressed it - today he has avoided it, but we, the Democratic Alliance, will not forget it - many times to us. I want to say to him - reminding him that I was one of those who supported him in difficult times, when we were in the same party, I have nothing with him - that when he talks to us he is causing contraceptive. It broadens our own conflict, our members and our executives are revolting, our bases, and if we here for reasons of fellow Members, we have a way to speak to each other, our world, our voters tell us "do not and support him, address us another history, another path". He is not entitled to denounce forty years of post-population that have changed Greece. Because he himself leads to the streets that took place these forty years and our children are studying in the new schools. We've got memories of how the situation was in schools, of how the windows, the schools buildings, and with what clothes the kids came from. We all remember how these changed. Our children are probably denounced by the universities we did. The country changed, the middle class became big, widened. She has had difficulties, but her acne has been brought to an end in the years she has been denounced, and she has served them. And that's why it irritates the PASOK voters. It should therefore be addressed to other parties. In our opinion, it is 'not taking him'. He's not dear. Our executives and members don't listen to him. And instead of our people dealing with what the Minister of Interior says, we are engaged, ladies and gentlemen, in forming our space, the single centre on the left. Discussions with the Potami are on the right track, a reliable solution that will help the country to help its citizens. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I have two more points. I'll be done in a minute. First time left of the left, first time left of the government, first time simple analogue. One phrase, two lies. Firstly, because I have repeatedly described the Left 'Madour' here. And secondly, that we are interested in this issue - ladies and gentlemen, did we not have elections after the fall of the Pangalou dictatorship on a simple analogue basis? I, the very good scientist Alki Rigos, who belongs to your ranks, in his book on the Second Hellenic Republic, find in footnote, if I remember correctly, that this government of the five parties that emerged from the mere analogue at the time - four parties from the breaking up of the Liberals and the People's Party - held a meeting three days to show the leader of the militia. Big judgment in February 1927. Was it not with a simple analogue - another system, not the same - elections in 1932 and in 1936 and in 1950 and 1951? You don't remember the Pappa-Plastra discussion, which one another said: "Master, we're real people. Should we change our system so that someone can finally rule the place'? I do not treat the argument of insolence as others. We combined it with a reasonable bonus from a percentage upwards. I am addressing you, however, and I say to you: who are you lying to? Who are you lying to? The simple analogue is being introduced into the political system for the first time? I remind you of the 1926 events. I remind you of the 1927 crisis. And read your partner and friend and colleague to see what he says - he doesn't blame them, but he records them - on these issues at the time. And to finish - thank you, Mr President - since tomorrow evening, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, end the lies. From tomorrow you will tell us about returning to the recession, which goes to touch 2%, negative forecasts, rather than about 3.7% of the growth envisaged by the European Central Bank for 2016. You're going to tell us about going back to the recession, then. You'll tell us about taxes. You're going to tell us about the reduction of pensions. You'll tell us about reducing incomes. You will tell us about your cubisms with the "COSCO" and the shame of teasing the contract, after you signed it, for your courtesy with the Greek. Today we have casino developments. Do you remember what you said a few months ago? You'll tell us about the thirteenth pension, about the seismicity you've been talking about, closing the eye on the Greeks they owe. You're going to tell us about the increase of HISPIA. You will tell us about the abolition of the CSCE. This is the citizens' agenda. This is the country's agenda, whose debate you have sought to suspend forcefully, with this attempt at electoral law. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, everything is being paid here and you will find out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u291	Thank you, Mr. Loverdos. Parliamentary spokesman for SYRIZA Mr Socrates Famelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u292	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, allow me - forty-two years ago exactly, the Turkish invasion of Cyprus began. Turkey has exploited the coup against the Awake! This coup, directed and organised by the Greek junta, was aimed at the President of the Republic of Cyprus and was the best alibi to the Turkish invasion and occupation, the consequences of which we have experienced so far. One Cyprus, a full member of the European Union, has to date remained divided and the northern part is occupied. The division of Cyprus was the price we paid to restore democracy in Greece. We, of course, continue to fight for a single, independent, sovereign, with a statehood, but we do not give the right to neo-nazis, supporters of junta and fascism to pretend today the honorers of democracy and national interests, when we have paid dearly as the Hellenic Republic and at the cost of human lives, the implications of politics and opinions from their own political choices. But today's day doesn't just have a black anniversary. It is a historic moment for the Greek Parliament, since the debate on the simple analogue is entirely consistent with our election commitments, but also with our principles. It follows on and consistent with the struggles of the Greeks for democracy and equality. The Greek Parliament comes ninety years after Alexandros Papanastassiou's position, to discuss again the introduction of the mere analogy. But let's see some elements of that position. "The simple analogue," Papanastassiou said, "drives to the fairer representation of political units, to the unadulterated expression of the political opinion. It elevates the work of the House, contributes to its pureer exercise, stimulates political interest in the elections and is an important means to limit the power of prime minister. It stabilises the correlation of powers, facilitates the entry into the House of younger parties and contributes to what we call a mild political climate." The simple analogue is today part of the political system, because it is coming to heal problems of the credibility of the political system. Because we must admit it: we do not come out of the social, political and economic crisis. We must take this seriously into account in order to avoid the negative impact on our country's society, because the restoration of the relationship between Greek citizens and politics and democracy goes through the demand for more and real democracy. Simple analogues have the potential to be a democratic radical intersection throughout society and to contribute to decisive changes. First of all, it is not a law - scorching, it is not a law that is made to serve party and government survival purposes, as has been done for so many years by New Democracy and by PASOK, but we are called upon to vote for a democratic law, as our society wants, which many years have been mocking it. Because it is a mockery to place you firmly, forty years in favour of mere analogy, to table such a proposal for a law last year, and now that the government brings the bill, not to vote, disappointing and betraying the democratic world of Greece, and to join the right and to justify this majestic piece of legislation, to invent the misery of a possibility, a thought of entrepreneurial, finalists, the forces of the army in plans a year ago, but also to conceal the basic political project tabled by the previous President of PASOK a little while ago, which is the coexistence and cooperation with the neoliberal New Democracy, in contrast to the pan-European turn and the Socialists, in contrast to the debate opened by the new move towards progressive cooperation in the European Parliament. We come to this choice regardless of the elections, first of all, to overthrow the status quo that they had imposed, riding, if you want and humiliating Greek society the previous parties that ruled in Greece. We are paving the way for a policy - the 'pipe' in capital letters - a choice which also has a pedagogical character for society. It can't be in election time. It's clear. There are three and a half years before the elections, so that it does not depend on them and so that we can discuss the constitutional review as well. Of course, we are putting the issue of mere analogy immediately after the completion of the first assessment, quite simply because we have avoided the rocks and reefs that have put bad governments, policy to the detriment of society in recent years and the blackmail they have tried to set up, when they have lost power in combination with and in cooperation with lenders. We did the first task, within the Eurozone, through the most dynamic, but also a marginal compromise that could be achieved. At the same time, we are now implementing, together with the democratic debate on simple analogy and the Constitution, a lot of major changes both at the level of development and at the level of work, but also above all at the level of upright, united, single society. We continue our efforts and our duty towards democracy. That proves our consistency. Because the rapporteur of the New Democracy has implied that only a mere analogy proves our consistency, we will leave no room for the "falcons" of intercom and the media, which only fuels the opposition, to create a false picture. We will remind you of the following: the fight against tax evasion, the canal tender, the examination of loans, the investigation of illegal deposits abroad, the recuperation of health, public hospitals, the abolition of the 5 euro, the recruitment of doctors, enhanced operating schools since the beginning of the year, the income of solidarity, the humanitarian crisis, the change in development model, first in the ESDP in Europe, the social economy, the strengthening of labour. You're upset about all this and you want to forget about it and you think that only simple analogue is part of our programme. All of this gives us strength to continue. Continue for the second evaluation, to defend labour rights and to create a working framework. After we welcome yesterday's position on the labour market and production, on the proposal on labour, we will also be waiting for your position. We hope that your position will be contrary to Mr Mitsotakis' public position at 'Washington Post' in favour of the IMF proposals, to the detriment of our country's interests. But the draft law is not only consistent with our programme commitments. First of all, it is consistent with the democratic history of our country. It is consistent with the struggle of the Resistance, in the struggles for democracy after the Civil War, in the anti-judgmental struggle, in the struggles of all movements after the civilisation. First of all, our proposal satisfys the Constitution, Article 4 on equality and, of course, on the need for popular sovereignty, because the constitutional legislature makes it clear that the electoral law cannot violate popular sovereignty, a parameter of which is equality of vote, the equivalence of vote. Every vote must have the same legal power, and let the New Democracy Parliamentary spokesman try, despite the fact that he is a legal person, to paraphrase and underestimate the mandate of the Constitution for parity. Bonus, like the enhanced analogue, obviously completely distorts the principle of equivalence of vote and undoes any picture, any idea of electoral justice. In our proposal, the Greeks' voting rate is guaranteed. All citizens are equal, all votes have the same power. This will prove to the citizens and the need to restore the parity. We all have the same right without extortion. There is no lost vote and compositions can be better control over the political system and the major parties. The proposal for a law is a deep democratic choice and for one more reason. He was invoked by the parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Alliance earlier. Indeed, it is the bonus-elected Members who will vote tomorrow night for the abolition of the bonus. This is the greatest democratic overrun, which only the Left can do, because you have never been able to pass a law against the chair, which you have held for so many years. The party that - not on his own choice - took advantage of the bonus suggests the abolition of the bonus that violates the vote rate. It seems that the Members who support this government have no subjectivity to politics. They're not looking for chairs. They do not give a career in this Parliament, but put forward first of all the democratic task assigned to them by the people's will. This option is a real act of democracy, because it is at the same time radical, honest and moral, because so far the electoral system in post-policy has been the passport for exclusiveity in the prefecture of power. The choice of mere analogy enables the citizen to express himself freely, because so far you obviously know that the classic slogan in the leading parties of the urban culture was: "Whoever is out of the fold eats the wolf." Simple analogues yield the logic of the lost vote and, at the same time, we have the opportunity to say that it actually cleansssssssssssssssss. We had, of course, to reach the country's destruction in order to prove that, in the end, bipartisanism was two good partners pursuing the same policies and changing chairs. Now, however, we can clearly say that the insulting and blackmailing logic of the lost vote adopted by both the New Democracy and the PASOK was the one that supported election campaigns, full political careers. It was founded on the electoral systems which they themselves were building to give the premium for self-sustaining arrogance, an uncontrolled exercise of power, because of which, of course, Parliament has often filled out applause. But be careful. Lost vote means many times and useless votes, unnecessary votes. It means that the citizen who chooses it is also useless, moderate, unnecessary. That was the message given by the old political system to the citizens of a different viewpoint, namely that the ideas of a section of society are not useful to society. That was the racism and politics of aristocracy, which they have been exercising so far. At the same time as the idea that the place needs stable governments and that there is no culture of cooperation, they present their own pursuit, their own political choice, as a cause of their own choice. But do they not understand that by allocating votes to strong and powerless, they violate the Constitution themselves and undo the essence of democracy? This is their pursuit, and today, that is to say, that the electoral will of the citizens is distorted and that the erosion is expanded, which, of course, comes and complements the rhetoric and the client state. This is the package: reinforced analogue, breach of citizens' will, routing, complexity, our own state, our own system. And obviously we didn't get to that. We have often lived, after the transfer, to exercise psychological and political violence on the dogma of the lost vote. On the contrary, simply analogue liberates political forces, gives power to society. It looks like the water of the mountains of our country, with the blue Aegean, strengthens the relationship between the state and society, because it shows the citizen that there is justice in the political system that the state trusts the position of the citizen and does not only need it to renew a closed cast of power. Of course, it also enables us to have compositions before the elections, but also better control after the elections, because it is clear that the self-powered parties were not easily controlled by any other political force. You are, of course, talking about powerlessness. But what have the strong governments brought to our country so far, which, on the basis of bipartisanism, have changed in power? Who ended up in the bankruptcy of the country? Who filled the country with corruption, but with powerless society and economy? Our country has reached the worst point in its modern history by self-powered, sovereign governments. Why? Who installed a third-world interface environment? So who took self-reliance to appoint administrations to state banks, to take loans from these banks - credit and fierce! - to pay his election expenses? Wasn't the bipartement? Wasn't New Democracy and PASOK? What were the governments that, with the money they borrowed, made a policy of the "Yiannis is buying and Yannis"? It's you wonder why we went bankrupt when with the back of the two-party, bonus and reinforced analogy, party leaders, formerly and now, alongside family rule, maintain the logic of state ownership and cover their personal liabilities with loans that they never pay! So what's that, the caste over the law? Because this is what we live in Greece, that's what we've been living in the past years. Greek society is still waiting for responses to the Mitsotakis family loan for Karykas Chania. Loan and wild? And you want to take responsibility for the country too? Even the family paper loan you couldn't pay. That's why you brought the country into bankruptcy. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that society in the last four elections has in practice overthrown the majority and anti-democratic features of the current system, because it has chosen that there should be no self-government. Who has the right to underestimate and challenge this clear popular mandate? You'll tell me: the bipartisan! That's what you've been saying for years, isn't it? The New Democracy, with its positions on the electoral system, is very simply trying to maintain power and chairs. He tried to sell a fairy tale that he had this government's interest in the chair. He couldn't be held long, betrayed. They do everything for the enhanced analogue and the bonus, because their only concern is the chair. But we're being blamed for who? Those who, beyond inheriting the seats - from father to son, from father to daughter or from mother to son and from mother to daughter - do not, at the same time, reach them twenty and thirty years of parliament, but want to violate the will of the citizens. They want, in practice, to create the inequality of votes between the peoples and the peoples, the peoples, the peoples and the peoples, to maintain the policy of the few and the chosen, of course, to support the leading, urban parties, to blackmail society in the sense of lost vote and, of course, to maintain the family business, as inherited by the new generation of praisers in the next, in all versions of nepotism. Unfortunately, however, both PASOK and Potami are still investing in the left-hand parentheses, which is why they say a sterile 'no' to the change of simple analogy, because they think the government will fall and enable them to rest and mock the democratic world. They are placed negatively, with a view to a political republic. They're so sterile! They underestimate and offend Greece's democratic history. They owe SYRIZA, that is to say in society their shrinking and not in their policies with New Democracy and therefore operate as the consistent extremists of Mr Mitsotakis. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Please, Mr President, I shall conclude. A top example is the proposal, which they brought here a year ago, the Venizelos proposal, which said that facilitating the formation of coalition governments is better served by the simple analogue system and that the former current system - which they are defending today - has anti-constitutional features. This is signed by Mr Venizelos and by the entire parliamentary group. That's a shame. After so many years of investing in oblivion, Mr. Venizelos. Since he was elected, I had heard an interview in which he said that politics is the fight of memory against oblivion. We have listened carefully to the arguments of both the relatives and the constituencies. I am sure they ask me: why have they not set them for so many years? Because they didn't even prepare them technically. But the debate on the constitutional review and on these issues will be opened. But the simple analogue is the purgatory step in a sincere debate on the deepening of democracy. We're waiting for the receipt. We're talking to the democratic world. We make it clear that we do not want stolen seats in the next election that we will be the first party. We want to give young people a greater and more important role. We call on the young people of our country, those who are the most vibrant, and we say 'don't stay in the margin', because we know that the New Democracy's choice and refusal to accept vote and participation in youth proves not only that the New Democracy does not want progress, but that it does not want youth itself. And that seems very simple from the deletion of the last secretaries of the youth of New Democracy, but also the cancellation of the New Democracy Youth Conference, why? Because they question the chair of the already elected MPs, they probably question family rule, and youth wants something different. We are creating at the social level a new alliance of equal opportunities and so support other political objectives, fair development and strong society, because simply analogues reflect both on the market and on entrepreneurship, equal opportunities, freedom of ideas, open society and active citizens. Because democracy gives society, the economy and solidarity, and we are determined to start these major changes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Thank you very much, Mr President. You're gonna tell me: All this for two numbers? Remove the bonus of fifty seats and vote at seventeen? It's not two numbers, because I heard it from the opposition. It is not two figures, it is a word 'democracy', a word above words, a word with many sacrifices, with many struggles, a word of folk, for all the Greeks, for all of Parliament, for all of us representing the Greeks, a very great word. The word 'democracy' is the one found at the heart of this bill. And we will defend him and even now demand the defence and support of the Republic from all the parliamentary groups. Until tomorrow night, democracy puts the dilemma, raises the question. Equally voting, equal power for all Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u293	Thank you, Mr. Felle. I have to say again that there are some ninety colleagues waiting to speak, that time is limited and actually this afternoon and tomorrow afternoon - because there is another bill to be discussed in the morning - and I would ask you to keep up with the times. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Athanasios Pafilis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u294	It is forty-two years since Turkey's invasion of Cyprus, which led to the occupation of 37% of the territory of Cyprus, an invasion made with the blessings and support of NATO and the United States of America - which has so far been mentioned and mentioned - with the support of NATO, which the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, with the blessings of other parties, has invited to settle in the Aegean, in the name of the refugee problem, but in reality to take a military order for the new aggressive actions in Libya as well, but overall for the situation that everyone perceives as being created in the wider region. The road opened for the division of Cyprus the coup d'état of the junta. In fact, many people say - and it is right - that one of the main reasons - if not the main reason - for the coup d'état of the junta was the fragmentation of Cyprus. And the fascites of the Golden Dawn are not even entitled to talk about the Cyprus problem. We believe that no fair solution can be found for the Cypriot people within the framework of the European Union and NATO. Already a new Annan plan is being prepared away from what the Cypriot people are asking for, and we also want to point out - and we will talk about them tomorrow - that developments in Turkey, but also in the wider region, must find the Greek people and peoples of the region at a standstill, because there are plans for general war, because of the major competitions in the region, the control of energy sources, transport and geostrategic control. We remain in the position of a fair solution to the Cyprus issue, independently of Cyprus, one and only sovereignty and international personality, without foreign bases, without foreign guarantors and protectors, with the people of the householders in their place. Any other solution will not be in the interest of the Cypriot people. As far as the bill is concerned, the Communist Party of Greece, as far as the electoral law is concerned, is based on the principles it has always supported. What's our position, and what's it always been? Simple, unadulterated analogue, constitutionally guaranteed, i.e. no bonuses - gifts - seated fifty, thirty, or any, without entry limit in the House and with the abolition of the preference cross. That was our place. Without all these conditions, it is not just proportional. It's something else. It may be more proportionate, but it's not just proportional. We also want to make it clear that we have no illusion that the deadlocks that exist for the Greek people, for the workers and the people, will be solved with the electoral systems, whatever they may be, even the genuine, unadulterated, simple analogue, nor do we believe that the political system will be overthrown - a minister said - with the simple analogue. The political system serves a social system called capitalism and is therefore not overturned by any electoral law, nor have social systems ever been overturned in history - to speak more openly - by electoral procedures. It has never been done and where he attempted - for example Chile - backwards. But they were overturned by the uprising, by the social uprising, by social revolutions of the people. Aren't we interested in simply proportional? Of course we do. We say, therefore, that the Greek people's vote on simple analogues is recorded faithfully and corresponds to the respective Members. Ultimately, it guarantees equality of vote. And really, Mr. Famele, with a 3% entry limit everyone has the same right? If five parties get from 2.8%, 12% of the Greek people will be represented in the House? So don't overreact. Equivalent to the vote why? Let's vote for a party. Remember then - the older ones will remember - the coalition with the 2.91% left outside? If five, six parties get so much, will they have the same power as the vote of the others elected? So don't tell us too much. Without 3% being abolished there is no equal treatment, I would say, of voting. And one more thing for the election. I imagine, no matter how many people disagree with us as a whole, that they understand - and the Greek people perceive - how they go to the polls and under what dilemmas and blackmails they cast their vote while they believe otherwise. I can say a lot of examples. Nor is the Greek people's will genuinely expressed by vote. Never! Literally never and we say it with the feeling we have. So we say - and it has been said here - that the mere proportional, even that, guarantees popular sovereignty. We have a different view, radically opposite, and we think it is a mockery against the Greek people to tell him that it guarantees Greek sovereignty when it votes in elections. For us people's sovereignty is when the people have the means of production, the wealth they produce, when they decide on their economy, on the basis of human needs and not on the basis of capitalist profit, which is decided today by the monopolies and the capital that it controls and has in its hands, when it designs its economy, it exploits the wealthy sources and capabilities of the country in the light of human needs and not on the basis of where capitalists win, when it pursues an independent policy, without the deadly bonds of the European Union and NATO, which defend politically and also the interests of capital. This is the European Union: the dictatorship of European monopolies and NATO is the armed hand of imperialism and capitalism worldwide, unless it has become a dove today and you invite it to the Aegean to fly and bring peace. It's ironic. For us, then, popular sovereignty is the property of wealth, who has the economy in his hands. Who produces wealth? Do the people produce it or not? Who's stealing his wealth? A handful of monopolies. Sixty - five people in the world have half of the earth’s GDP. 10% of the world's population has 90% of the world's GDP. This is cynical, raw dictatorship of the bourgeoisie and we call it that with this language that is not hard, but rather soft. So when the people follow a different, peaceful policy and do not participate in slaughtering other peoples and ours together, they are popular sovereignty. This is our proposal, that is the JRC's proposal, because - I say again - when a handful of monopolies control the economy and make the people vote every four years, that is not popular sovereignty, it is the rule of the bourgeoisie, it is a dictatorship of the bourgeoisie, which is sometimes with bourgeois parliamentary democracy and sometimes, when things are hard, it becomes an open cynical dictatorship. Election systems can be changed, as are many and many willing, or the system itself can be created by different parties who essentially serve this power of capital, whether by one party or by multi-party governments. You will allow me to say that what is said here, beyond and from the SYRIZA side, is unheard of. So, the economy has come to this state of affairs both in Greece and worldwide because of one-party governments? Don't go crazy. Isn't it a genuine capitalist crisis everywhere, which is plagued by the entire capitalist world and you're telling us that it was a cause for the mono-party governments? What about allies? Why, in Italy doesn't he have allies? Didn't the crisis break out there? Isn't it ally in other countries? What governments were these? Governments serving the capitalist system itself. Don't tell us at the end that this system of mere proportionality will change society as well and turn it into a socialist through the elections. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] Governance: New Democracy's basic argument. Is there insolence? What country does the world have insolence? In no way, ever, no matter what systems they had. We first had examples of foreign affairs. Now we have this way. Why, you didn't make a government, the suburban rivals? What the New Democracy said in PASOK and PASOK in the New Democracy are paleing in front of what is being said today. And yet, you ruled together. For PASOK, can I say, Mr. Loverdo? And with the LAOS you didn't go? Why is it different from ANELs? You didn't do three-party government together? Why did these governments become? To save Greece? Oh, no. To save the capitalist system itself, to recover the interests of capital, the profits of capital, breaking, literally crushing the Greek people. Governments, therefore, which seemed unlikely, as they may today, will be created, because there is a common basis, apart from the fact that the parties are different. There is a common strategy that has two elements. One is the capitalist development path, which you all agree with other than the JRC, and the second is the position of Greece in the European Union. So from the moment you agree on what is strategic, the fight is who and how it will manage exactly this power. So there's no case of insolence. 'We want' - it says -'strong governments'. The question is: Powerful governments for whom? We do not want strong governments, nor should the people want strong governments. Powerful governments for what reason? In order to implement all the memoranda and laws, in order to implement anti-grass policy, in order to serve the interests of capital, to ensure its profitability and to crush the people. That's a strong government you want. Well, the popular movement and the people should not want such powerful governments, but the weaker they are, because the weaker they are, the stronger - and this is a precondition - the struggle of the people. It can distract certain things and it can also create large breaches for big twists. That's our position. So the crucial thing for us, without underestimating the electoral procedures - I will say below - is the organisation of their struggle for workers and peoples. Whatever they won in history, no government gave it to them. They won it with fight and blood. Even within the capitalist system, it will have a clear direction to overthrow the system itself. There's no other way. A decisive factor for this is the strengthening of the JRC everywhere - and in Parliament - to be able to act as a catalyst in the organisation of this popular alliance and in the struggle for popularity. The other - and I am addressing the world - you have tried it all. You've tried it all. The so-called left came on the very same road as previous governments on the road to capitalist development. As far as the law is concerned, what political aim is this law, apart from the disorientation that is objectively in existence from the hot and immediate problems that concern the world? But I won't stand on this. Also - and this is very serious, and you all have huge responsibilities - you are not making a word about the situation that is being created in the region, about the decision of the NATO Warsaw Summit, which is a war decision - a declaration of war is in fact - signed by the Greek Government, and which does not give up for the rest of the parties, because they agree. These are the hot problems. But the main aim, in our view, is to facilitate the reorientation of the urban political system, to create strong coalition governments, to ensure stability, to ensure that whatever capitalist development comes. The aim is to create a new bipolarism: centre-left - centre-right pole. Here there are different conflicts between the parties, not in strategies, but in isolation. SYRIZA wants the lead and even moves at a speed of light in this area. He's been shifted to social democracy in no time. It has already set up a polo with social democrats, GUE and Greens and Papadimoulis in management. So what we have been saying for so many years and what you have been protesting hard and yelling at, are you already making it progress: the creation of two poles: Social democrats and Christian Democrats, who are, after all, doing what? When one fails, the other one comes. Not to mention an American system, Democrat and Republicans. In this direction you move and you want to put false dilemmas on the Greek people. Of course, here, there are peculiarities. There is a barricade and agglomeration, and it seems that European social democracy is choosing SYRIZA for a partner, and PASOK is taking it slowly for reasons of historical importance, that is to say it has not been able to come down to very low levels today. And it is not by chance that the choice of European social democracy is not random - and I am addressing the New Democracy - the choice of your own People's Party, namely the government's support. Merkel? Diaselblum? The Greek Government is supported by everyone, your people, because they see that they can go through measures which you would not manage to do the same. And the Social Democrats, Olad, for example, says:'live the SYRIZA Government'. Support everywhere. Why? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me two minutes, too. So what is the substance now for the New Democracy? It takes your work and your politics. You're on dead ends and you're giving the battle regionally and not centrally. I come to this particular issue. Vote at seventeen. We agree, but here we hear a lot, such as whether they are mature or immature. And the New Democracy says 'is immature in seventeen'. So I ask: have you not brought and implement the European child labour directive to fifteen? Yes or no? The New Democracy and PASOK government did it. To work 15 years old and to fight hard jobs with cheap cuts, almost free. To win the bosses are mature young people, huh? But to vote, it's not! And you who are snatching them now, why don't you abolish this law? Why don't you abolish the law on child labour, which is inhuman, turning us into the Middle Ages, in situations of Africa and other countries? So that's a lot of juvenile hypocrisy! One more thing has been said by a representative - I think from Potami - that schools will become a theater of political controversy. Really, what do the books teach? What do the books write? Bigger brainwashing in kids than elementary school is there? Seven and eight children are talking about entrepreneurship. What do they teach them about the European Union, what about the history of Greece? Read all these books. Isn't that a brain wash that makes the system itself? And we'll see what you're going to do. You're probably not gonna get rid of these books, or Marxism will enter anywhere else. That's all right with you because it's the sovereignty of the system itself to reproduce ideology and, if possible, to be generous, to deny their own order, because most - the vast majority - of the poor are children of the people. Secondly, the bonus of fifty seats is abolished. You, then, of urban democracy - why do we not believe in it, we regard it as hypocrisy - that everyone is equal, etc., I do not understand why you will get 5% of the bonus? Why would you get fifty seats? What are you, smarter? Anyone, the first party. So I'm going to vote for this party and another Member will come out? What democracy is this? You don't even respect her, yours. Indeed, you are arguing here: strong governments, rulership. If the people don't want you, why rule? I didn't get it. On your own criteria, not ours. You get 51%, build a powered government. You don't get 51%, make compulsory partnerships or run elections until you find no 51%, but find allies to make partnerships. What's that logic? You tell us, the great democrats, who are defending the civil system. Because we're saying another thing. Democracy means electing the Member from the place of work, from the place where he lives, from the pensioners, from the agricultural cooperative, to be able to be revoked. Such power is what we, such MPs, such people's representatives, want, because the concept has been humiliated. Also, PASOK is manoeuvring now. In April he was talking about the abolition of the bonus, now he says "from 42% or more". Why from 42% or more? Because he's strong? A party can have 20% and in the next election to go 40%. Why should he get bonuses? Because you say bonuses, is the bonus not theft of the Greek people by force to give them to the first party? Aren't you stealing the will of the Greek people, even the one expressed in the elections? And one more thing that was put forward - and that is what I want to do and end. Mr. Vorides said it, and he knows what he says very well. It says that the internal party function of the parties should also be laid down in the electoral law. What exactly does it mean? Will you abolish what it says that the parties are free associations of citizens who make a party, have a statute and a programme? What are you going to do? State parties? Who are you addressing? Will the state control how the parties operate and how they decide? Who are you talking to? The JRC? We don't chew - the story has shown us all this - nor are we going to back out. Because many people are'solidating' and no one has said a word. Because these are the directions of the European Union. They want to break up with all kinds of parties that are struggling to overthrow the social system itself. We make it clear that this is not the case, and if you pass it, I tell you and you realize it, they will turn boomerang as far as the Communist Party of Greece is concerned. Finishing,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u295	Mr. Palphie, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u296	Just a minute, please. I'll put it in an outline. The article on voting at seventeen is a vote. We are voting for the abolition of the bonus. We are tabling an amendment to abolish 3%. Those who call for national reasons are also harming the country, which is why the government is not officially saying anything and is doing well. However, those who say this actually go to overthrow international treaties that speak of a Muslim minority and mention the issue of a Turkish minority - I say it openly here - and that is why they will do well not to speak. Let them say what other arguments they want. We are therefore tabling an amendment to abolish 3%. We are voting for the law to be implemented by the next elections and we call on the people to organise their struggle. There will be a way out and not through various electoral systems.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u297	I beg you all to be precise in time. Mr. Catrugale, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u298	Ladies and gentlemen, the attitude towards the electoral system is a stone on the political nature and identity of all the political forces. On the left, it is an identifiable issue, precisely because it is the same as a statute on the left that the choice of mere analogous: the choice of equality policy. It is also a left-wing option, because the system that is proportionate is what best expresses the need for a democratic correlation in the vote of all citizens, without the mediation of distortive mechanisms. For this reason, Phaedon Begler did not call a "reinforced analogue" the electoral system that prevailed after the post-Marchation, but rather "stable or blunt analogue" in the sense that its predominance weakens the principle of equality policy and mitigates the implementation of democracy. As far as the attitude of the other policies of the Conservative Party, the Right and the Centre is concerned, history shows that it also highlights political identities. The conservative party historically favoured the majority systems or systems of enhanced analogy, without meaning that, for the sake of opportunism, we do not owe the most electoral-creating electoral system, the so-called "triphatic system" of the EPE in 1956, where the choice was in favour of the majority system in rural areas, where the right had great power, in favour of the analogue system in towns where the left had great power and a mixed system in the semi-urban areas. As you know, this electoral system led the EPE to gather an absolute and a large majority of 165 seats, while it had 47% of the votes against 48% of the Democratic Union, namely the whole of the Opposition. What we call the Centre in Greece, most of the time, supported the simple analogue, especially by its representatives who were open to progressive waves, as the Minister of Interior rightly said, Alexandros Papanastassiou. In fact, eighty years ago, Philistore of the newspaper “Kathemerini” reminded us of the introduction of the system of simple analogy as a constitutionally regulated system. In this area, however, we are also detecting phenomena of intense opportunism, which, every time they have been attempted, have actually led to the election of this place. A characteristic example is what the spokesman for Democratic Incorporation said, the Papagou - Plastira agreement to introduce a majority system in 1952, which led to the full prevalence of the Pope. Even worse, the Centre's and the right-wing party's agreement to exclude the upcoming left, which was calculated as a third party by the unequal distribution of seats in 1958, which, of course, led to the fall of the electoral pit that those who were destined to the left in the role of the victim. The third, I think, is a pharmacological, opportunistic behaviour which is currently shown by the self-pity centre in its parliamentary expression, which also decides, this time, the de facto collapsing with the conservative faction and removal not only from the principle of simply proportionality, but also clearly hypocritical differentiation from a draft law which it itself had tabled a few months earlier. Hypocrisy, however, is not just the same of the so-called Central Left. To the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, who has been somewhat urging us to introduce the vote into the seventeen, I must remind you that the New Democracy MEPs voted in favour of the European Parliament resolution of 11 November 2015, which provides for a vote from the sixteen, not from the seventeenth. And this particular resolution was tabled to the European Parliament with rapporteurs from the People's Party and the Social Democratic Party. The current trend in parliamentary democracies is in favour of reducing the electoral age threshold. It is not only in Scotland and Austria, in traditional democracies, which were introduced in the sixteenth - I repeat, not in the seventeenth year. In Estonia, in the current review all the political forces have accepted this limit. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the choice of the electoral system is not only an identifiable issue for the groups, which trys honesty and hypocrisy, but also an option for what kind of political system we want. And just at a time when the old communist system has collapsed, and there is a need to overcome the limits of post-population, there is a need to create the fourth Hellenic Republic and through a new constitution, as the Prime Minister has announced, is a key issue with which we are going to go. (RG) Why does one thing state: Do we trust the Greek people? Do we want the citizens to rule and not the elite? In reality, therefore, it is not just the lightstone for the identity of every political party, but also the dream we have for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u299	Thank you, too. Now Mr Vagionas has the floor and then Mr Amyras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u300	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all a comment to the Bureau. Time-respect. I'll hold the five minutes. Seven minutes fell by 40%. Or I was prepared, or I'll talk. There was no parliamentary representative who respected the time. You've all spoken for twenty minutes. That's not a democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u301	Seventeen-and-a-half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u302	Nineteen and three, it's registered. I wanted to say other things, but the many colleagues I have attended from my office remind me of a splitting climate. Many reported in the 1951 elections, in the 1953 elections, as did the Minister. They forget what the situation was at that time, after a civil spasm, a foolish war that ended in September 1949. Are we talking about the morale and situation of that time and we wanted a lot of democracy and a lot of simple analogues? However, I was very impressed by the Minister present - whom I very much appreciate and know - because the arguments he has put forward are completely obsolete. He was mentioned in '63 with the mere proportion of Georgios Papandreou, the Old man of the Republic. They had preceded, Minister, in November 1963 elections, at a time when Karamanlis was on the left that he was the killer of Lambrakis and came to some important left official, after forty years, to confess, on the basis of the archives of the State Department, that Karamanlis had no responsibility or responsibility for that murder. That's it for us not to forget. So the Old Man of the Republic came in February 1964 and after "he found no money", he gave 100% increase in the judges, 50% increase in the military and 41.5% became 53%. Is that the achievement of mere analogy? But let's get to the '74s. When Constantine Karamanlis came, he took about 70% after a seven-year-old dictatorship. Do we need such situations to have such majorities? If we want them to talk about them. But you said something else about the abstention. The abstention was before the Memorandums, before 2010, around 25% to 30%. After the memorials, over the last six years it has become 40% to 45%. Is the simple analogue or the memos? The memorials brought the crisis. Because in the six years of memoranda you have a year and a half in the governance of the country. What's going on? Don't you get 1/4 of responsibility? I think you should do it. But let us move on to the responsibilities of the New Democracy. Our parliamentary representative told you, and our rapporteur, Mr Voridis, has told you, there is no time to talk about it. One thing I know, Kostas Karamanlis left in 2009, after informing all the parties' leaders first. He told you that the economy is not good, the country is deep indebted, zero increases, zero recruitment. You found him, got beaten up and left after the elections he took 33%. But then, Minister, it was 110% and the public deficit was increased. Do you forget how much the Olympics cost? The Olympic Games cost another 30 billion. 80% were repaid in 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008. From there it increased and we had the deficit to 14%, while it had been declared 9%, for other reasons at that time. I feel, therefore, sadness for those fellow Members who want to make a division, against their will to believe. But the real truths are those. I'm closing up with the electoral law in line with the revision of the constitution. They're Circles of conjunctive. Kyriakos Mitsotakis made a proposal: You know what we want to amend to the Constitution and we will vote for what you bring. Why don't you do it? Or do you now want to see what happened twenty-five years ago on Constantine Mitsotakis, who took 47% and had fifty seats? That election law you want to bring? Him? Rejoice him, Minister! We're not getting it! In the five minutes that I had at my disposal, I said this about the history of the matter and about the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u303	Thank you, Mr. Bagiona. Mr. Amyras has the floor, and then Mr. Kikilias follows.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u304	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal from the Potamium on the change of the electoral system is as follows: Reduction of seats from three hundred to two hundred to fifty five, of which five will concern the election of the Greeks of the diaspora. The river proposal is: Breaking all the major regions. Motion of the River is: Active reduction in the bonus of seats, which went to the first party, as follows: For every 2% of the first party, a bonus of one seat. So, the first party got 40%? The help will be 20%. The proposal of the river is: The double vote. I am voting for Potami to govern me, but in my region I am voting for a Member of another party, because I think it will do better. Mr. Voridis, you leave the Chamber and you lose the best now! But the important thing is, if we have a real political reform, the possibility of a letter vote in the four hundred and seven thousand young people who left abroad either to study their work and according to the figures of the Bank of Greece and ENDEAVOR GREECE, these new Greeks are the flower of the social and productive process of this country, which now offers elsewhere. I would particularly like to deal with the Greeks abroad, for whom this government is not cut off to give the voting rights. I would like to tell you, therefore, that these Greeks, almost half a million Greeks and Greek young people, have left from 2008 until now a wealth of EUR 50 billion in the host countries. These are official elements of the 'ENDEAVOR GREECE', as I have said, and of the Bank of Greece. Be careful, ladies and gentlemen, young people abroad each year in the host countries contribute - listen! - with taxes of 10,300,000 euros. That's the challenge. It's not just the simple analogue. The challenge is to set up a return bridge for young people. It's not just the letter vote. But I have the feeling that you do not want people to vote on the new children abroad. And that's why? Because they've opened their horizons and see how the state works there. They see, compare and demand. They require equal opportunities and the same rules for all. Now let me come to the point of mere analogy. I am telling you this unequivocally, the simple analogue is an overrated system. Are the Italians? For half a century they had just proportionally, from 1943 to 1995, and then abandoned it. She was abandoned because the average time of an Italian government in this last half century I mentioned to you was nine months. So imagine the rule of law in Greece. We saw in 1989 that with a mere analogue there were three elections in ten months. Every three months we had elections. Of course, it was just a request from the Left that was analogous. Only I want to tell you that it was a Left request, when there was extensive fraud through electoral systems of the popular verdict. The proposal of the River brings a balance both to proportionality and to governance. We believe that governance must be the main criterion of our decision. We believe that Mr Tsipras may see that the next elections will not take place, legislate or hope to legislate in such a way that the latter will have a say when the elections take place. I'd say he's ruining the game because he sees he's losing the game. But in conclusion, I will tell you that, in our view, the electoral law, as it has come, cut and stitched solely on SYRIZA's micro-group electoral pursuits, will be burdening the economy, because, as I have told you, there is no investor who will come to the country invest when it does not know whether there is a government. There is a government here and there is no understanding, let alone when there is no agreement. We know that the bonds of the Greek state are going to heaven. So we insist on a system that is more proportional, but with a balance. It is important for the country to be governed and dismantled from the outdated demands of other decades, because these demands have been overcome by the needs not only in the present, but in the future. If you really want to show democratic sensitivity, Mr Ministers of Government, you can give the four hundred and seven thousand young people, the new Greeks who have left and built other GDP there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u305	Thank you, Mr Amyras, for the time. Mr. Kikilia, come on. You have the floor for five minutes, and then Mr. Papachristopoulos follows.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u306	Madam President, thank you very much, personally. Ladies and gentlemen, because a lot has already been said in Parliament's Chamber yesterday and today and there will be a lot of other things, although interesting, I believe that by tomorrow I will contribute to these five minutes with what I think it is my view, trying not to repeat these important points which have been heard by the Congress, by my fellow Members and by the Qualified Opposition and by the other parties. Look, frankly, if we leave the Chamber of Parliament and everyone thinks about the average family in their constituency and really wants, ladies and gentlemen, to be honest, it understands that in the middle of the summer and in the middle of many problems the last thing that currently concerns Greeks is electoral law. Honestly, Ministers, I find it difficult to understand how you think that a simple analogue to the reduction of wages, pensions, the EAS can at present give a solution to the difficulties of an average, small businessman to pay for his loan, housing, the feeling that the islands of the East Aegean are abandoned in their fate and in the pressure of the refugee in large cities, where problems and unemployment in young ages are plagued by children abroad. I beg your pardon very much, but if we want to be honest, nothing to do with Greek reality at the moment does not have the electoral law. That's the truth. In any case, I would consider it fair, ladies and gentlemen, that your colleagues in the governing seats, like you, want to keep your seats, your chairs. It's legitimate. It is in human ambition to try to achieve everyone's work and this is rewarded. I would, however, imagine that this would come with an effort in these key areas, create more jobs, reduce bureaucracy in the Greek State, give the opportunity to attract more investment, organise a rule of law - where there is a lack of - to drive and drive to better public health, education, guard our universities, give opportunities for equal access to our health institutions. Instead, you come in the middle of summer and even the last Greek understands that, as a last chance, you bring an election law, to extend it - you believe - your position in the Government Chairs or within Parliament. It is very difficult - I think - for such a tactic micropolicy to succeed because it does not have a great soul. It is a micro-political tactic, which I would say, that it would not suit a government for a year and a half, a small party that became large, who worked with another and that comes here to change the bad texts of post-multiple. And if we accept for the sake of the debate and the debate that a lot of things have been wrong in the forty years of post-population, then you have to think again that the world has chosen you and voted for you to change, to improve them, to show something different, not to make you the worst imitators of all the bad texts of old-fashioned communism, all the bad tactics, all the troubled micropoliticals that led here. I don't need five minutes to tell the obvious. Even right now in the middle of the debate you are able to save, if you like, the government's party and make the obvious. And that's to drop it. To say honestly that this attempt failed, it started with the effort to fish for two hundred votes and led to the equilibrium of everyone's votes, to think that it is not stumbleless to possibly work with parties beyond the democratic arch. It leads to a political defeat. It was a mistake. There is another way, another effort that can really be founded on a consensus. Even the bonus issue itself. You didn't really discuss it. Even for these, proposed by the Chief of Officerial Representation as one or two issues for the electoral law. You didn't even get into the process. I think it would suit the new spirit, which you want to publish - but which I do not see - another manipulation, another perception of political things right now. Because, you know, the time we all spend here, the long he is, the small he is. Many times, when you look back, you can't fix things. So now that you are in the chairs, you have the power and the majority, now that you have the opportunity, I would say that you are also due to you who say that you are taking the different, but also to the Greek people who are listening to us, to work differently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u307	Thank you, Mr. Kikilia. Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor. Mr Vernardakis will then speak. Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u308	Thank you, Madam President. I'll start a little unorthodox. I would like to remind you that, not much or much, I have felt since this morning that some great defeat is coming, something terrible is going to take place tomorrow in the vote and all that. So I want to remind you again: I am talking about this particular government. Slowly, but firmly, GDP improves. They are small numbers, but they exist. Slowly, but firmly, the unemployment we found at 26% improves. 25% became 24.3% and 23.3%. Slowly, but stable, 4 billion went back into the banks last year. I would also like to remind you that the cutter is not going to be activated in March 2017, not even one in a million. The surplus will be twice what we have to have. The Prime Minister's journeys have recently been the biggest guarantee of the country's prestige. Having said that, I would like to remind you exactly how the country was governed by the almighty one-party or two-party governments. I'm in an unpleasant position to remind you of facts. For example, how do we take into account that we have five subjugated bankers? I don't want to say their names, I wish them well to be acquitted. How night did an amendment go through with the suggestion of three Members of the New Democracy, on 4-1-2013, who ensured the immunity of bankers, who were giving loans without guarantees to the parties, but, above all, to entrepreneurs who now live rich abroad and who have left billions? It was a strange night and I want to remind her. In fact, DMAR, with which PASOK and the New Democracy were cooperating, did not vote. Even the Apostle Kaklamanis - because I want to be fair - had separated his position. Papadimoulis made a huge fuss that night, but the then President, Mr Tragakis, decided that this amendment was passed. I would also like to remind you that a little earlier, in August 2011, the then Minister of Finance, Mr. Venizelos, was going through a strange amendment for his self-respect, when a month earlier he gave Proton Bank 100 million, although he believed that something was going on with Proton Bank and Laurentiadis. Two senior officials of the General Accounting Office of the State with a narrow voice said that this bank should not be given to Mr Laurentiadis. Mr Provopoulou with the pressure I don't know who - I wasn't here - gave it to the bank. Mr. Laurentiadis is indicted, and I wish him also to be acquitted. In fact, recently, an independent MEP combined Mr Provopoulou's relaxation with the fact that IRF had 26% of Proton Bank's Aggeliki Franku and his son at the time - it is not my own information, but the independent MEP - it had something to do with its operations. I say this and I could say too much. Let me remind you of what was happening in armaments with the almighty one-party and two-party governments, when a well-known editor with Mr Liakunakos, who is also indicted, fought for the F-16s, while another MP then fought for the GEST REV. It was a game between F-16 and RAF. The Ministry of National Defence at that time was intertwined with the complexion and the misagent. Let me remind you what happened with the Competition Committee, that six contractors on a firm basis took all the projects, and what do we say about them today, about how much billions? May I remind you what the banks were like while the country was bankrupt into them almighty one-party and bipartite governments? I could talk by morning. I'm in an unpleasant position to know all the evidence or almost everything. It is no accidental but natural conclusion, therefore, that the country went bankrupt and that 25% of Greek income was reduced and, of course, 120% became 180%. That's what the government found. I agree he made mistakes and excesses. I agree there have been wrong choices and ignorance of danger. But such things are forbidden today. We're on our way. I hear too many people that tomorrow will be a great defeat. Why? Let me remind you that the European Parliament, the municipal elections and almost all the countries of the European Union have nothing to do with the enhanced analogue. Fifty bonus seats are challenged and the characterization is mild. Proportionality goes for a walk. This is about stable governments, I told you where they led and I could tell you more until morning. I do not want to remind you of what Sikashek said in the German court and who was involved in finding these names of Greek politicians involved in the 2% misery in the almighty governments. But I want to go to what happened the other day and the other day in a year and a half. As regards the amendment that passed a few months ago for the 223 that the Congregation of Music charged the Greek citizen with his choices, we personally as an Independent Greek, as a partner of this government, said with our little power "yes, to take the Palace to the Greek citizens, to the public, but first to carry out management control". And I think if we were a little more, we'd have avoided it. There was no management check and this amendment was passed by both the PASOK and the New Democracy and the Potami.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u309	What about SYRIZA?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u310	SYRIZA brought her. I say so. Mr. Kegeroglu, look, there's a point of order, and I'll be honest. I don't have a party billet in my pocket. Don't confuse me. SYRIZA said the Congregation of Music is going this way to the state. That's his right! What do I mean? I could tell you more. As far as offshore is concerned, SYRIZA Members - and not you and us - and I personally said that the Member should not only have offshore, nor should he have a job. There was a terrible gave at that time since the Census, it became what happened, and I think it was the right thing to do at the end. What does that prove? The more a government is controlled, the less mistakes are made. I am of the opinion that simply proportional is a question of democracy purely and unequivocally. Only defeated will I feel, if three hundred votes are taken, a hundred fifty three, a hundred sixty. Is that the perfect suggestion? Oh, no! I am a champion and other proposals too. Mr Barriots is very careful and I am watching him with very respect, as I have observed with very respect, Mr Scandalides, who is not screaming. I may disagree with him, but he has arguments...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u311	Mr. Papachristopoulos, shorten up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u312	How many minutes do I have, Madam President? I'm a parliamentary representative. I think I'm entitled about twelve minutes. You've made a mistake, that is, you're unfair to me and we haven't spoken at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u313	I'm sorry, I'm wrong. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u314	Mr Barriots said - I listened with respect - that Elias Nikolakopoulos smashed this proposal. He's wrong, he's better read the statements. Elias Nikolakopoulos said it was the beginning and is a strong beginning that covers 80%. And I'm in favour of Athens splitting up. I've suffered it in my skin. It's forty-eight municipalities. Not so much revolution anymore! It means partitioning and I think it'll be done in the future. Ten divisions will be made, four, five Members. He's voting for a million and a half people. There is nothing to say about the fragmentation in three, the terrible revolutionary proposal made by the New Democracy, which is in the right direction. As to the vote on those who are abroad who have left, and I am in favour. Can I even tell you one of my own - completely personal - opinion? For the twelve Members, we need constitutional arrangements, we need to rethink it. Some people spit blood in here, MPs. Some people go in as personal? As what? We need to see that later. But what do I want to say? It's a democratic step. And I want to finish - I will not speak all year round, Madam President - to say this: on Erdogan, it is right that Andreas Loverdes made an observation and we must be very careful about what we are saying now, in relation to Turkey. And I'm one of those who put the country's interest above emotions. I would like to remind you, however, that this man started and accepted everything. He slowly started, struggled, kicked out rivals, kicked out Giul, Dabutoglu, climbed up, wanted to do constitutional reform, had all the powers. Today Erdogan - I think we have the right to see it - not only did he destroy the army, but the entire public administration. It didn't just stop the judges. He caught the civil servants, the teachers, some weird things. It is forbidden - it says - to be buried by some imam by the coups who died and all that. Mortal almightyness! It is not the best thing and I do not think it has anything to do with democracy. The atrocious almighties lead to where Hitler was driven, who also came up in democratic processes and at some point destroyed the Constitution. I feel a great honour to take a first step in the simple analogue. It's a democratic step. It's a step that will force us to talk to each other. From the next day, we'll look into each other's eyes. If the Qualified Opposition really believes - I wish her dream - that when she comes to power she will destroy it and return to the enhanced analogy, her right to do so. But I believe that it will not find allies, because it is indeed a conquest for decades in all the countries of the European Union. In the European Parliament, in the municipal elections, no one questioned proportionality there. We see that the administrations are right. There is more work done in all European countries. I have the opportunity to know Denmark and the Netherlands very well for very specific reasons. There is not even a question of reinforced analogue and such things. These are thought to be outdated. I think it's a democratic step. That government loses thirty-five seats. And he's fine, he's sacrificing them. They have arguments that it works as a second party. Poor thing, scumbag. The democratic issues are not the first and the second. It is whether real democracy will be established, so that we do not see what I have told you in the first part of my speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u315	Thank you, Mr. Papachristopoulos. I apologize for the mistake I made.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u316	It's all right, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u317	Mr Vernardakis, Deputy Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, has the floor for five minutes. Here comes Mr. Kelles.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u318	Five minutes, but I have the President's tolerance. You said that before. There are two packages of arguments. Let's decode them. One package comes from the New Democracy. What has New Democracy said this weekend? I would like to begin by saying that I am very pleased that the Commission has taken this opportunity to Objection one: You are a second party, as polls say, and so you have the stress of a legislature that is why. Reply: You have five in five unfortunate forecasts with the polls in recent years, so be more careful, because reality is different. Secondly, unprecedented, which was heard yesterday in Parliament: What a message the simple analogue will give to the markets. Don't comment on it! Not to comment on the supervisory role of GOLDMAN SACHS and MORGAN STANLEY in the choices made by the Greek Parliament. Third argument, also unprecedented because it also shows a serious historical half-life: The simple analogue led to the dictatorship of Metaxas. This argument was extended today: The simple analogue led to Hitler's rise. This is where the flea policy is being pursued. I'm flying from one theme to another. I'm going through historical periods. I forget about facts. I am forgetting the most important fact, that the package of interests of industrialists, bankers and landowners gives Hitler confidence and imposes him as Prime Minister and undermines the Republic of Baimar. But that now appears to be an argument against simply proportional. The New Democracy's main argument is as follows: Electoral law, says, does two things: One is trying to create a kind of proportionality. The second is that it ensures practicability. Where did you get that? Who says that? Ruleability is a matter of the party system, not of electoral law. Election law ultimately does something very simple: it distributes election seats on the basis of election results. Whether there will be cybernicality depends on the structure of the party system. Maurice Diverze: 'Political parties'. Classic work. The two-party systems lead to majority voting systems. Multi-party systems lead rather to simple analogue systems. The cyberdynamicity is a Greek patent. It's the alibi of the disproportional systems historically. The unprecedented, what Mr. Dendias said, a measured enhanced analogue, what does it mean? 17% of allotment to the third distribution of seats - this unprecedented - or the 5% electoral limit, 10% and so on. That is the type of electoral system. The problem is that you need to answer a very simple question from now on: What does it mean to rule on conditions of real pluralism of social and political representations? For in fact, when we had strong parties of 45%, the argument of cyber efficiency was making a electoral law, namely giving thirty bonus seats, forty bonus seats, fifty bonus seats. And I'll come back to this. But there we had at least the presumption that we had very strong political parties, that is, very strong representation structures. But when these structures are dispersed and evaporated, the real question to which you need to answer is what it means to rule under conditions of multi-departmentalisation of political representation. Since 2012, we have had no self-powered governments, even though we have the bonus of the first party. In your opinion, under the circumstances, how much should bonus be? Fifty, sixty, seventy, a hundred? How far should it have been so that a government could come up? The other argument says: What, for example, would have happened if we had a simple analogue? Would there be a government? So let us make a case of work. May 2012: The parties that remain outside 3%, i.e. they are not represented, reach 20% cumulatively. [[At this point the time bell ends the Minister's time is ringing.]] Could there be a government if we had just proportional? Of course. There could be a government of the New Democracy because Mrs Bakoyannis' party, Mr Jamerie's party, the LAOS, the party of Mr Manos, has remained outside, and may have made some more of the relative liberal or centre-right space, with which, if there is a simple analogue, he could have made a government. Therefore, the argument which says that a mere analogue means incomprehensible, very simply does not exist. On the contrary, what happened? The artificial incorporation in the New Democracy of these ideological and political sites has been blackmailed. That is why one speaker quite rightly said that, rather than actually having a transparent and objective representation of the social forces, we have artificial structures of large political parties, but which operate informally as internal parties within the parties. That's the reality. And that was the role of not having a mere analogy. Simple analogue is the best and most operational system in the current conditions. Why? Because it is not the electoral law that makes political connections. On the contrary, electoral law - this is the great lesson from all the literature on party and election systems - is that it must adapt to the reality of political and social relations. I come to Mr. Scandalides' suggestion. I would like two minutes, Madam President, because it is very important. Kostas Scandalidis made a retrograde and self-criticism about how PASOK jumped from the majority systems to the most proportional - indeed, he handled everything, and even with his power to apply from the next elections - until the Constitutional Review of 2001. It's true. Did he stop in 2003 with his own law? Oh, no. In 2014, in the European elections, the cross is introduced by a recommendation from the PASOK. The argument that comes now and they say that the second Athens does not break is pretext. You in 2014 suggest not a Second Athens, but seven times in Athens. All Greece has a second Athens. Why are you doing this? Because you think you will survive elections if you personally act on political networks, which are currently in crisis. Unsuccessful, of course, because electoral law does not make political correlations and percentages. However, this pretextful use of PASOK continues. In 2015, she is asking for a simple analogue. It asks, in other words, what it denounces today, which it will not vote on. However, interest is not in this delinquency, because this is a historical history of drug trafficking, of permanent drug trafficking. The PASOK problem - and the very interesting one - is another today. It is that for the first time a small party, of 4%, of 5%, of 6%, consents to maintaining a bonus for any first party that comes after three or two or two and a half years, whenever the election takes place. So what's he doing? He's building an election agenda at his expense. It is like saying, "Don't vote for me, because there is no presumption of governance." And that, of course, will lead to even greater problems. Take note, and this is the case today, that he consents not to vote on the abolition of the 50 seats bonus, that is, which he denounced as an anti-constitutional bonus. That's all it is. What kind of brake in political turbulence is it what you're doing? You are denounced - and rightly so - that the bonus of the fifty seats is in breach of the principle of equality of vote and the principle of equality policy, and today you refuse to vote. Just proportional is not a moral nor a democratic necessity. It is a big blow to the political and economic structures of interlocutory. And the JRC may, in fact, be right. The crisis since 2010 has not been a crisis of the electoral system or of the political system alone. It was a wider crisis of the capitalist system. However, the management of this crisis has had sides touching on the electoral system. One of these days we see on the relevant committees of the House. The PASOK owes 200,000,000 euros to the banks and the New Democracy another 200,000,000 euros. This is the political result of the electoral laws, historically disproportionate and confusing. In this sense, the simple analogue is the big blow at the moment in the tails of the country's political and economic interlocutory. And in that sense, it should be voted on by all the serious political parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u319	Mr. Kelles has the floor, and then Mrs. Jufi. Here, Mr. Kelles, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u320	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I would just like to mention one point you said just now, in the European elections, that the system of the cross was considered by Greece as a territory. Could it be different, Minister? Could Greece have many regions in Europe? It's not working. Ladies and gentlemen, after the government has taken good time for all the open issues that are oppressing the majority of Greek society every day, it calls on the House to vote for a new electoral law. At the same time, when micro-retired people see the ESS being cut off and pensions being depleted, where workers are losing new purchasing power, where professionals are unable to meet their obligations, resulting in market bunkers increasing, which farmers accept 'tsunami' unstable taxes, which students do not know with what system they will go through in their compulsory education, while in our neighborhood instability hits the door of security and peace, while in Europe the extreme forces of populism and fascism are spread dangerously, and terrorism enters into a new phase, threatening the rights and conquests of Western civilisation, at the same time the government decides to throw the country into the plight of inertia. This actually calls on us to legislate, without regard to the self-proof, in other words, that it is almost impossible to introduce a permanent government proposal for a long-term government with four or five parties working together. In addition, the rapporteur himself, Mr Kurublis, says. And in view of the ideological and programming identity that will be built up through such cooperation, it brings out a proposal to change the electoral law with a single objective: to brake the rise of the New Democracy into power. This is it, ladies and gentlemen, and let us not be fooled. And in order to achieve this, you do not hesitate to legislate even at sixteen. While the sixteen have no other legal right, they will be able to vote. If you think this is right, then you must also change the relevant provisions of the Civil and Criminal Code in order to be equal. The consequences of this decision, however, have you considered them? Are you introducing the election campaign of the parties in the country's high school? And what do you expect to gain from this? As our rapporteur, Mr Vorides, has said, there are about 100 thousand of the sixteen voters. Fifty and sixty thousand of them will vote. Let's go get them 20. And I'm saying a lot, that's because you know that LPD at universities is tearing up. So? However, the damage to children from both moral and educational terms will be irreparable. The terror of the government towards all polls, which prove in the most emphatic way that the break with society creates conditions that are irreversible for them, leads to the most dangerous toy against the country's own democracy and stability. The terror of the government towards all that comes from the autumn, with society boiling down because of the political deception suffered by the SYRIZA and ANEL government, leads it to the full mine of our political system. The horror of the government against the eruption of the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis leads to the contributor of the electoral law, in fact, engaging, once again, the left ideal, which puts the simple analogue as a permanent and stable electoral system on a firm footing. Really, ladies and gentlemen, is the use of the Golden Dawn votes left when it serves your purposes? Is it left to plan future governments based on the co-operation of heterosexual programs and ideological political parties, without the same ideological starting points? Is it left to bring instability and instability to the country at a time when our neighborhood is burning? And why is it not left to agree to the right to vote of our relatives, as we propose? Obviously, you consider that they are not your own electoral clientele and you are using a number of funny arguments. You are, however, saddened and supposedly crying why young children are leaving abroad against the crisis in the last few years: Four hundred thousands of higher and higher education from 2008 to today, according to a report of “Kathemerini”. And yet, these Greeks, who live and produce abroad, who, according to the figures, have so far produced a wealth of EUR 50 billion in the countries that act, do not want to honour them or trust them with their vote. But we need their money to get out of the economic deadlock. How hypocrites, really, are you? But not even in the break-up of the major regions - which we are once again proposing - you agree - and this is a good opportunity to start with the second of Athens - because with this bill you are trying to serve your small-party interests. Really, gentlemen of the government, you don't have anything to do with it. That's the truth, that's the reality. All you care about is power, they're chairs, and that's why you're selling out all the public property at humiliating prices, just as long as you're stuck in it. You didn't get enough of HIAD, but you also created a new superstition that includes all the public property for a hundred years. And tomorrow you will come and vote for the sale of "TRAINOSE" for 45m euros. Mr Stathakis, your Minister, said that 300 million euros was the value of TRAINOSE last year. Unfortunately for you and for this country, the world has understood you. He paid you and paid you very dearly. And he is the one who will eventually overthrow all the attitudes and practices you are planning to impose on our society. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you have no doubt. Whatever you plan to stay in power, whatever channels you can close, no matter how much you want to check the information, it will be the citizens who will eventually show you the door out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u321	Thank you, too. Mrs. Merope Jufi has the floor. Next is the Minister of Justice, Mr. Paradisepoulou. Here, Mrs. Jufi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u322	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are discussing is an incision to the political and social life of our country, after establishing the simple analogue for the first time in the post-war history of the Greek state, strengthening the democratic and representative features of our political system, with a pioneering light exception - which has already been mentioned - the legislation of Alexander Papanastassiou in 1926. It is, of course, well-known that in the majority of countries in the world, the electoral system is provided for by their own constitution, ensuring uniform procedures and rules for all political trials. On the contrary, in our country, our Constitution does not contain any specific regulations, so the definition of the electoral system is left to the individual government that will declare the elections by issuing the relevant legislation. So for many, many years, since 1844, the electoral system has changed many times. Its various versions have been introduced and, of course, the forms of enhanced analogy have been introduced in recent years during the period of post-multi-population, with the aim of always manipulating the vote, helping in recent years and the polls, but which have, in doubt, been completely unreliable. The simple analogue, as is well known, is a permanent and time-consuming demand for the Left, so that the people's vote is represented and expressed in the people's will, by establishing a fair electoral system, which is both time-consuming and particularly during the period in question, needs our country. The question of whether proportionalness is an idealism, an obsession, in any case, of this Left Party and of the current government, the findings from measurements show that this is a politically wicked claim, since the broad social majority is in favour not only of the left-wing voters, but also of the parties who have systematically tried to curb and undermine proportional representation by engaging in various arguments with mainstream government. However, the underlying targeting of the successive electoral systems of the enhanced analogy, namely bonuses or, anyway, the answer to the question, "What benefit is bonuses?" was not the rulership, but the assurance and ultimately the shielding of the exclusive access of the parties of the old two-party to power for many reasons, i.e. the predominance of goods, the customer state, the interlocutory relations, etc. We, having realised that the country needs an orderly institutional structure, also taking into account the economic, social and political situation of the country, propose an electoral law capable of stimulating representativeness, deepening democratic processes, even - ultimately - and facilitating the partnership of stable governments of cooperation, but on the basis of planned convergences. There is also a left-hand review of the 3% threshold. The answer has been given by many and I am in agreement. I am in favour of a reduction. However, we have left this in order to reach agreement with the other political parties. Moreover, the total abolition of this threshold would not lead to full proportional representation, unless all Greece became a single region. With regard to the prediction of voting at seventeen, it is quite obvious that it is the result of the new social conditions which stress the ever more active effort to involve the new generation. This, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, is not a sign of partyism, but of politicisation and participation, and it concerns 100 000 young people. In fact, in the debate that has been opened on adulthood, we could say that it is probably at the age of sixteen, that is, on the basis of European data, that child care is stopped. Perhaps that is why it is a European directive. Reverting to the New Democracy argument, that the country needs stable governments, it is essentially referred to by its Chief as one-party governments and preferably self-sufficient New Democracy, or in cooperation with satellites of the same policy, such as the governments that have had so many years with the consequences known to everyone. In the same climate, Mr Koumoutsakos described the vote as the mere proportionately conscious political crime to be prevented by European reformist forces. What should one comment on this, apart from saying that this attitude is consistent with the past of the New Democracy? But PASOK? In a demonstration of turbulence, he remained in the position of Mr Venizelos that now he does not need a simple analogue, despite his party's unanimous decision in 2015 and the proposal to change the electoral law and abolish the bonus, although he has always chosen the enhanced bonus in the past. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President. In fact, in this position PASOK insists on the role of the New Democracy satellite, which probably assimilated after the recent conflicts in the years of the crisis. As for the last argument about the rejection of the law because of fragmentation, it is obviously a'sheet of figuratives', since the result is exactly the same, that is, that the law should not be passed, and that is probably why intense aggression, 'Would you now tell us what we are going to do?' I do not have much to add to the position of the Golden Dawn, since it is well known that it is a conscious force for democracy and even a desire to destroy it. But I would remind you that at the present time, with its attitude in the end, it works as a golden reserve of the New Democracy policy, as well as in the past, as in historical terms. Let them here think about their role, and today, unfortunately, the broad support of the bill with the votes of the Golden Dawn. Our legislative initiative is taking place at a time when the political scene is fixed. We have not proposed changing the electoral system nor in the middle of threats Grexit, nor in the face of any electoral race, which I believe reflects our real mood for a substantial change in the system. That is why we call on all democratic political forces to support these democratic changes and to put forward proposals for the new constitution, which will also be able to work in addition to the establishment of stable co-operation governments, but also to extend the representativeness of the vote, and not just. In conclusion, I would like to say that the anniversary of the Rehabilitation of the Republic on July 24th, after the seven years of the 'black' junta of the Colonels, following recent violent developments in Turkey with the attempted coup, but also the extinction of the wild government's authoritarianism, let them find our country with a fairer, democratic and representative electoral system, that of the mere proportional system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u323	Mr Paradoxopoulos, Minister for Justice, has the floor. Mrs Triantafel will then be given the floor. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u324	Ladies and gentlemen, because much has been clarified so far - and the question of the service of equality of vote, through simple analogy, and the issues of age, I think - I will try to speak, at the speed I am required, on two issues which I think have not been sufficiently analysed. One issue is the historical basis and historical feasibility at the moment of mere proportionateness. Let us not enter into press disputes, then there was a simple analogue, reinforced, etc. Generally from 1844 we had a vote, until the 1920s, in 1923, 1926, we have a majority system. The majority is then altered in a proportional manner. And in Transmigration we have so far - a reinforced analogue. This is the general picture. And, of course, the overall picture is complemented by the fact that we have lasting rotations of systems. What are we now doing in view of the constant changes? We say that the system needs to be consolidated, so are we interrupting the efforts through Parliament to produce new systems? No, because that would mean keeping the old, that is, the enhanced analogue, which we have not agreed is the best. What do we have to do? We need to see what a electoral system is dictating today's historical and social circumstances. Besides, the fact that the Constitution is open to the choice of the system calls on us to pay attention precisely to the historical and social context and the national course - if you like - to the electoral system. What do I think? I believe that since we entered an economic and social crisis, since about 2010, as other countries have been invaded before, many citizens are the non-existent, many are the ones who are wintering and find it difficult to live and that is why they have reason to want changes in the economic and social system. In short, the period of crisis is the period in which radical, social demands exist. In other words, it is precisely the period when democracy meets radicalism. Because democracy as a system that allows many to express themselves and gain power, it now allows many who have no power to manage the political things of our country and their own fate. At this juncture of the crisis, the institutions of democracy lose adjectives of the "neo-liberal democracy", "civil democracy, "typical democracy" or whatever you want, and now democracy becomes essential, allowing citizens to be rulers and leaders and to change their terms of life. That is why I believe that a simple analogue is needed today, not as a strategy to gain power from many parties, but as a method, so that the many citizens, who are being pushed socially, can change their social conditions, their living conditions, gaining access to political power. In other words, we are at the time of the convergences of the parties, because the parties and the people who vote have not yet been able to form a party mind in the light of these new circumstances. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Wait a minute, Madam President. I'm gonna need some time, and with the greatest possible shortness, maybe for a while, for a minute, the five-minute limit. I am going to refer to the issue of fraud. There is one dimension which has not been discussed. I'm listening for the homogeneity. Of course, we must not forget that democracy is the civilisation of the common place, so it has been born, so it also continues to exist as a civilisation which was contrary to the common blood and origin system for the management of political commons. I do not want to say this that we are totally rejecting the idea of the participation of the vote, but it is another Greek citizen who is abroad for a period of time because of his studies or because of his temporary professional activity - but here he is groomed, he is aware of these political conditions, and he wants to act on them as well - and he is another person who has been absent from the country for many years, is far away - he is probably a second generation, despite the Greek citizenship - and he himself, in view of the space he lives in will not be affected by any of the consequences of his vote. That is why I believe that it is not a simple matter of voting on the results, it needs to be recorded, and it needs a study and a proper one - in my opinion - to be left at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u325	Mrs Maria Triantafellou has the floor. Here, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u326	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, forty-two years after the invasion of Cyprus, after the coup d'état against the Pleasant, American-inspired and bourgeoisie, the Cyprus question requires a real solution and it is not a technical problem and a question between the two communities, it is above all a question of invasion and occupation. For forty-two years we have been illegally occupied almost 40% of the island, mass settlement and terrorisation of the Turkish Cypriots. There is no solution without immediate withdrawal of Turkish occupation troops. We demand a solution that is compatible with what is defined by the rules of International Law and UN decisions, a solution that is fair and sustainable, without foreign intervention, with democratic governance, with harmonious coexistence and coexistence of Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots. And here I want to make two notes: We do not accept any suggestion from any Turkish official who violates democratic rights and plunges his people. We have full respect - and we have proved it - for all the international treaties, for international law and, of course, for the eight, for the judicial procedure. Second note. We do not accept any hint from Golden Dawn. He talked about opening the Cyprus file. Are you sure? What did the pigs know about the Turkish descent and what role did the junta play? They're their enthusiasts. A common way of persuasion in the political speech is the attack on the opponent's morale. We all move that way. In order to be truly effective, however, it must be combined with the invoicing of logic. And these days we have heard wisdom and leaps to the void - as several times have said - the insolence, the Minister's disagreement - yesterday was more heard, today less - the sloppyness of the lawmaking and, of course, the opportuneness of SYRIZA. Let's start over. Poverty, the opposite of practicability. All these years there have been strong governments vouch for collecting laws with bonuses, sometimes larger and sometimes smaller. And what happened? They deserved political life. They have led to the all-powerfulness of bipartisanism, the application of vote, the transformation of voters into electoral clienteles. And they eroded the perceptions, establishing the relationship with the parties and politics as a relationship of direct and beneficial interest. Within this vast context the complex was manned, the scandals broke out, "SIEMENS", the stock exchanges and the whole context of the parasitic economy that was harvested in Greece. At the same time, populism as part of the political speech and lack of accountability and accountability have made politics even more remorseful and have produced immaturity in the body of society as a dominant element. At this stage the notion of the people was abused: whether he would always be right or not, he would not understand anything, how it contributed to party rhetoric. Of course, the thought of the active involvement of the people and therefore the maturity and understanding of what it means to decide and responsibility has never concerned the hierarchies of postpopulation. And since we are talking about a priesthood of post-population, what did the representative of the Democratic Integration, who has always identified the objective of the weakness of the system, with the unique adequacy that distinguishes the Democratic Partnership, but who has not been able to correct it all, but who has changed the post-political scene of poverty and misery in prosperity? He forgot to tell us something. We can make a complaint, while the Minister cannot, since he has served this party. Who have made a policy of "the other day"? Who giggled the client state? Corruption has reached the clerks. Who depended on all structures, production structures and others, on their political offices? Who were they appointed? Who handled European money client management? Who created the state-owned union, all interlinked with their political existence? The Central Left, which rounds the demands, claims, which it once mocks, spends on them and sometimes formulates them more progressively. This is the role of the Central Left, against the Left always. Left-wing parentheses involves our assimilation to it. And the New Democracy is politically powerless. He makes policy on the basis of polls, while on the new electoral law he fights for stability and insolence and accuses SYRIZA that because he collapses, he fights for his role the next day, and that is why he proposes simply proportionate. Multiple contradictions. Since she is sure of the collapse of the SYRIZA and its own rise, why is incapacitation? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The need for stable governments why should it be ensured by the collecting bonus and not by the agreement on programming positions, which will have the necessary popular approval, but also by political coexistence? Who is he aware that either he does not have positions or his positions are so extremely anti-national, neoliberal - we can say it - that he will find it difficult to obtain broad consensus, political and social for the creation of a stable government? In fact, he who invokes integrity is the one who will potentially provoke it or pursue it. The Party of Officerial Response is shaking the electoral law and the New Democracy without strategy, positions that defend national interests and leadership capable of giving authority, is on border crossroads. It looks like the party itself and the people who support the conservative party remain together, respecting a contract, but that comes from the old and cannot continue much longer in the new circumstances. I've already exceeded time. I shall close by saying this: the JRC has referred to the elections. The elections don't change the political system and someone said that if they changed it, it would probably be illegal. The reversals are not achieved by special or governmental patterns and the prevention of compromises is ensured only by initiatives, actions, association with society, movements with the people's element, only in this way, not by declarations and clear expressions, not even by strengthening a left-hand association. The question is: Does the Left want to take responsibility for creating initiatives as a whole? Inside SYRIZA there are many who want not only activists or commentators. It has also been heard that there is the moral left outside Parliament - rightly so - and smaller, the more moral, the less assertive, the more moral. But we won't do that. Political life and society need a great transformation. Election law, but above all the debate on the constitutional review, should be the subject of wide-ranging public consultation. Memorandum democratisation is at the same time an objective, but also a means of getting out of the crisis and the vision of another Greece. At a time around us and throughout Europe there is a deficit of democracy and authoritarian behaviour in terms of rulers, at a time when extreme right and isolationism are gaining ground, it is, at least, for us to be honoured that there is a government that chooses to respond to the problems of modern societies with greater democracy. This is the way for the peoples and the governments responsible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u327	Madam President, should we take him back seven minutes? All seven - eight minutes speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u328	I'm trying. I said I was tolerant, and you see everyone is taking advantage of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u329	Self restraint doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u330	This is at the expense of the next speakers, who will probably not speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u331	That's not democratic.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u332	That's right. I'm appealing again. Mr Karasmanis has the floor and then Mr Davakis. Here you go, Mr. Karasmani.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u333	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has suddenly brought us to the point of order, and I would like to say, for discussion and vote, a bill on simple proportionalness, formulated in a text which is clipping and opportune. Why this late rush? The government had the opportunity to go to the September elections on the simple analogue basis. Why didn't he? But immediately after her second election, she was given the opportunity to write history, inaugurating a new era, a time of consensus and understanding, as the country's interests imposed. Instead of working with more parties, however, he chose only ANELs. Why? To be the current Prime Minister undisputed unique ruler in the country's governance. Today it brings us a bill in the middle of a long economic and social crisis, as if the rapid change in the electoral law to be the solution to the huge problems that have brought the people to their knees. They're looking for a lifesaving. They know very well that the world cannot and will not stand the painful measures. The wage cuts, pensions, CSR, taxes on taxes already paid by exhausted citizens, but also the most burdensome arrangements that come in the autumn at work are now unspeakable for everyone. So what do they pursue? Simplifiedly, "with one forum of two birds", on the one hand, to make it difficult for the New Democracy to rise to power and on the other hand to share responsibility for their own inefficient political choices in other parties. Or is Mr. Tsipras, aware of the enormous deterioration of his party, deliberately preparing his departure from power and looking forward to his participation in post-election developments? Why do they want to implement Chochatzopoulou practices like that of '89 when the New Democracy with 47% was unable to make self-powered government? Is it possible to ignore that in particular in critical circumstances such as today, the country needs sustainable, strong governments and political stability, which is the alpha and the omega for the recovery and development of the Greek economy? Is it a 'tolification' of political life today? Does the country have the administrative mechanisms to overcome what we lived in 2015, a year of total failure, with even pencils being downloaded, with Community programmes planted, a situation that cost the economy more than a hundred billion dollars? You want a parliament - sad mosaic? Is that why you are so concerned with the abolition of the bonus of seats in the first party that it has been adopted from years ago by modern and parliamentary flawlessly operating European countries? Is it possible to represent parties representing up to 0.16% of the electorate, when in advanced political and parliamentary countries there is a limit of up to 5%, precisely to exclude these opportunistic figures? Is that why you played with the entry limits in the House, so that you can have on the benches some pins with a rewarding end to "carry on" you in the chair of your authority when you need "decades" and continue your destructive choices? You're dedicating a bill of a page to how the seats are distributed. Nor is there any reason for the number and size of the electoral districts. Not a word about the way Members of Parliament should be raised. Indeed, there is talk of the forthcoming revision of the Constitution to reduce the number of MPs from three hundred to two hundred. Others say in a hundred and fifty, others in a hundred. Should we numerically limit them, in football terminology, to some eleven, to groups, so that every big economic operator can control them more easily and more effectively? To have a Parliament manipulated, faithful servant of interests and not of the people, but of persons? In my opinion, and before entering the House, it was and remains that the MP must be completely independent, unblocked and, indeed, the state must support him with all means. There is also a lot to be said about the operating costs of our Parliamentary Republic. I would therefore inform them that this cost does not exceed 3 per cent of a thousand and not 3 per cent of the total government budget. And this is an abrupt response to all those who speak of a reduction in the number of Greek Members. We heard from the Opposition that we are frightened by the vote at seventeen, namely, the sixteen - year - old - high school students. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President. That's funny. Can the New Democracy, which is permanently the first in the student elections, fear the youth? We're not afraid. We're worried about your methods. You're going to school party centers. You go get the kids out of their study, at the most critical stage of their studies, and hand them over to party soldiers. So do not hope, ladies and gentlemen, for two hundred votes. It was a dream of the summer night and it went through. Partial bubble and exploded. Your bill, as you would like, will not pass, because it is an uncovered recipe of insolence. And in support of this, I remind you of the statement made by the Interior Minister: 'If the simple analogue is established, the country will never be governed'. I appreciate Mr Kourublis, however, from his statement, what did he do? Where and what pressures did he take to review this view today? In fact, at a time when the country ever needs as much as it needs a strong stable government, which inspires confidence both internally and abroad. I cannot accept that it is doing so for reasons of party discipline, to the softest, for reasons of party coexistence. And because I don't have an answer, I would ask him tomorrow, who I'm sure he's following the debate from the Parliament's channel to solve this question. Thank you, Madam President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u334	Mr. Davakis, come on, you have the floor, and then Mr. Jamaklis will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u335	Ladies and gentlemen, the government's proposal for a simple analogue is, as most of what it has done so far, out of place and time. At a time when the country needs a change of economic example, determination and reform work, the lead group only ensures its political survival on the next day of the great political defeat that comes. Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Tsipras and Kammenos, and a large part of the Members of this co-chairmanship, who has so much troubled the country and the citizens, is hanged by a thread. Their political choices, lies, amateurs and mismanagement have led us to a dead end. As time passes, the consequences of the economic disaster that this government has caused will be spread over Greek society. By depositing the law on simple analogy, Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Tsipras and Kammenos seem to have accepted that the course of defeat is irreversible and are simply trying to make it manageable. Simple analogue serves only the purpose, falling softly. It is clear, then, that simply analogous is proposed by the wicked. Like any such action, a pretext and a fig sheet is needed. The government therefore argues that electoral law increases the representativeness of the composition of the House and does not explain much to us in this argument. First he doesn't explain why this bill is coming now. If the government's main objective is to increase the representativeness of the House, why wasn't it the mere proportional one of the first bills that came to Parliament after January 1915? For hours now, ladies and gentlemen, a rhetoric in favour of mere analogy is being built. Would the same rhetoric be built if you were first in polls, if everything were going well, if you had kept the promises beyond maintaining the gluteus by the Prime Minister? So if everything were going well, would you have brought the simple analogy? So what we say and say so much time here in this Chamber is far from reality? These are the well-known reservations of the Left which have created this prospect of its government service for many years through its mere analogy, and now you come, when you are now specialised in the Kammenos-type co-government - which Mr Tsipras once said is also a matter of aesthetics to discuss with Mr Kammenos - now when hearing you come to ask for this kind of political perspective. Just proportionally, therefore, prevented the possibility of governance. The simple analogue at that time would mean that SYRIZA should collide with almost half of the other parties in Parliament. It is no coincidence, however, that the Minister himself, who today recommends a mere analogue, said a few months ago that this system would lead to insolence. That's what the channels do, of course, when every morning instead of going to the Ministry, we go to the channel he calls us. Secondly, it does not explain why the New Democracy proposal to facilitate Greek citizens who live abroad cannot be accepted. In recent years, as we all know, hundreds of our fellow citizens have been disfellowshiped, but these people have not been cut off from home, they have their people here, their property, their care for our country. Is it not an improvement in representativeness to facilitate the expression of these citizens? How can it be, however, for you, when you speculate - and I would quite rightly say - that this reality and those thousands of Greeks who left will not be friendly to your political expression?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u336	Ours?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u337	Yes, yours, Minister. They will simply vote against you because the critical period in which many of them voted for you believed the lies you told them and now of course they are in the hostile, abolition of memoranda, development clauses and such ones. Thirdly, it does not explain why the other proposal of the New Democracy, the partition of the second Athens, cannot be accepted. What is more representative of millions of voters joining a large gallery such as Athens? What does Agia Varvara have to do with Akali or Philothei with Agaleo? I believe that you are also in this situation. I would like to ask the Commissioner if he is prepared to do so. Tsipras and Kammenos, this tight and powerful twin, which inspires you and leads you, on behalf of the MPs of the coup d'état, is not a matter that concerns the majority of Greeks and Greeks. Citizens are interested in their problems, to find jobs in their children, opportunities for development, to have a decent life for their parents and all this, and to be our homeland strong and independent. The enhanced analogue may not be a perfect system - clearly it is not a perfect system - but it is a system that guarantees that the expressed majority will of Greek citizens can be translated into action. It is a system that guarantees that the country will not cease to move, especially in this critical period. Your logic, SYRIZA's logic is extremely simple. If SYRIZA can't rule the country, no one else can. Our response to this, ladies and gentlemen, of SYRIZA and ANEL, is also extremely simple. With the future of the country, the New Democracy does not play and the New Democracy does not play directly as the vote of the Greek people takes over the fates of this country will be one of the first legislations to abolish, as will the tomorrow's legislation that comes for union in the Armed Forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u338	Mr Jamaklis has the floor and immediately after Mr Koutsoukos, five minutes both.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u339	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, our proposal for simple proportionality comes in an unsubstantiated electoral time, despite what is said by the Opposition, which is rather wishful. [[The first Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, takes over this President-in-Office of the Council.]] In the question posed by the Chief of Staff Response because there was no change in the electoral system in February or March 2105, one can reasonably answer that then, through the storm of negotiation, the objections would be greater, not only within the country, but also abroad, since the political system would be easily characterised as "above others". Furthermore, the choice of time depends on the completion of the first assessment, which clearly gives the Government the opportunity to legislate on institutional measures, being free from the great burden of the negotiations. This year's anniversary for the restoration of democracy will find the country for the first time in a mere proportion. And that will be the beginning, one of the initiatives for second post-population. In any event, the Government and SYRIZA shall respect their commitment and fulfil the established request for generations and generations to establish the simple proportionality. It is a request that has been approached not only by the adequacy of the Left, but by the whole non-preservative faction. Of course, the present position of PASOK, which, just in June 2015, had submitted a proposal for a law to introduce simple proportionalness by removing the bonus of fifty seats. In fact, at that time, Mr. Venizelos, as Chief, described it as unconstitutional. In fact, what changed within a year and shortly after the well-known and undone positions of the Democratic Partnership? Nothing, beyond the greatest bonding of PASOK to the chariot of expectations and needs of the old political system. Secondary Migration must be based on simple proportionality, not only in order to cultivate the logic of consensus and cooperation, but also in order to make Parliament more representative and more controllative. In the forty-two years of post-population, none of the so-called powerful governments of the fraudulent electoral systems managed to impose areas and reforms, because allegedly invoking inauguration served only party and personal interests. However, only the genuine recording of popular will creates possibilities for sound programming. Only proportional representation can now guarantee stable governments. The reality has gone beyond them. The Greek people have exceeded them. This people from 2012 onwards, in four extremely critical elections, have already decided simply proportionally. The government is required to propose a vote at seventeen because it is seeking to discover new polluters' tanks because it has allegedly lost social consensus. The first argument, the legal argument, that the right to vote should be linked to the legal capacity of the Civil Code is not reasonable because it is other elements taken into account for legal capacity, for example in property, and other elements taken into account for the right to vote, for example direct inducement to engage in common. And why not connect - I ask - with the full criminal charge of seventeen years? The second argument about the immaturity of the young people aged seventeen is overwhelmed by the fact that today these young people, because they have direct access to communication via the Internet, are following developments and by the fact that they are experiencing the economic crisis directly. The appeal by the opposition to the immaturity of the seventeen-year-olds, which surely deceives them, has an explanation of the phobia, especially the conservative Officerial Response, that these young people are radical and turn back on the specific socio-economic choices of neoliberalism. Of course, it caress also the ears of overconservative and extreme right circles that in each intersection are intolerable and discomfortful. The same happened forty years ago when young people then asked for a vote in eighteen, which was legislated in 1981 by the first PASOK government as a mature demand. Since then, thirty-five years have shown that the vote of young people is neither immature nor directed. The rapporteur, Mr Vorides, in committee, said that the entire bill was two numbers, eighteen, seventeen, and the two hundred fifty, which is three hundred. Wrong, Mr. Voridis. It's two words: more democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u340	Thank you, Mr. Jamaklis, SYRIZA MP. Mr Yiannis Koutsoukos has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u341	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, a lot of talk about left-wing policy. A multitude of Ministers have paralyzed from this Step. We are looking for them in parliamentary control, but they are busy. The left, democracy and radicalism had time to talk to us. Welcome. And dozens of colleagues from the majority, too, are telling us about the simple analogue and the left. The other day, we had the bill that sold the public property for a hundred years to the lenders, two, three dared to speak. But let us see, ladies and gentlemen, the simple analogue established is the simple and inappropriate analogy? Apparently not. It's a kind of analogous. A kind of proportional we had established before Mr. Pavlopoulou and Mr. Karamanlis took the bonus to the fifty seats. I would like to remind you that for small parties this simple analogue system was representative close to 90%. So a party that got 5% would take fourteen MPs instead of fifteen. It was a mere analogue system. There could be better, we're talking about it. But what we do not accept is that you baptise tacticism in a left policy. Because left policy is to have a set of reversals and changes that will change the political system and its function, its pathogens and address the issues of questioning its representativeness. And this is about big changes and overthrows that relate to the very functioning of the institutions of representative democracy, accountability, political money and obviously also related to constitutional change. You, not only did not open up these issues, but you are taking just a part of the changes in the electoral system, because you do not dare to talk about the break-up of regions and political money. Does Mr. Leventis hold you, does he not come out as a Member and lose Venice a needle? The smuggler forty years of the political system? You do not bring the question of the vote of the relatives. Four hundred thousand young people are abroad, studies say that 50 billion offer the GDP of these countries. We don't want their opinion? Do we not want their opinion on political developments? You do not bring a number of other things about the internal democracy of the parties, the cross of preference. None of this! What are you bringing? The abolition of the 50 seats bonus. And because you have suffered a political defeat, because you have had no real dialogue to gather the two Members, so that the next elections can take place with the new system, you have placed your hopes on the Golden Dawn. You fooled them until yesterday. One said that the votes don't smell, the other said I wouldn't put a cut and Mr. Kourubles said, "We have a hundred ninety-seven." Where did he find them? So yesterday this political planning was disproved, but you still have the same rhetoric, and today you should see that your tactics lead to elections being held as Mr Mitsotakis wants, with the bonus of the fifty seats. This is the result of your own tactic.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u342	That's your tactic.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u343	We cannot change that, ladies and gentlemen, if Mr Tsipras does not take an initiative to corner Mr Mitsotakis. We have addressed this invitation from this Step and Mrs Gennimata today in her statement. Will you take an initiative to force the Chief of Officer County to speak of the fifty bonus seats? Do you hear what the New Democracy MPs, who speak in Stepah, say? That their first bill will be to abolish this provision. You're the two sides of the same coin. One is voting for the other, but nobody has the initiative of an institutional debate, an agreement on the rules of political game. Neither can you find the two of you to vote and the others will find the two to vote. To be informed. Therefore, in this political extortion, you will also lure the political life of the country. This will be the result of all your tactics. Do we have time? Obviously. It is a living Parliament that is in operation, and you have room to take an initiative to change things, to go to a system agreed, without this excessive bonus of the fifty seats that really alters the popular will. I would remind you that Mr. Pavlopoulou and Mr. Karamanlis did it. I do not know what underground routes exist, because you are basically working in favour of this logic. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So, if you want to talk - I conclude, Mr President, in half a minute - about what Mr Paradise was saying earlier about how democracy meets radicalism, come and talk. Because radicalism is not to turn the election of the President of the Republic into a single-faced uncontrolled instrument. Radicalism is to give power to representative institutions. So here we are, and we're waiting for you. Otherwise, the people identify you with others, with the old and the dead, which you're supposed to want to change.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u344	Thank you Mr Ioannis Koutsoukos, Member of the Democratic Alliance. Mr Constantine Morfidis, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u345	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I can understand the New Democracy's refusal to introduce simple proportionality. They have always been programmed by the strengthened or better over-reinforced electoral systems. But all of us - and colleagues in the New Democracy - must understand that our position on the programme is the implementation of the simple act of analogy. All our programming texts - and at the time of 3% and today - start the chapter of the resolution of the political system by introducing simple proportionality. And all of us, who have been involved for many years in relevant party processes, all of us who have struggled to become aware of the need for its establishment, cannot today promote any micro-party interest and review our deep conviction that simply proportional treatment can be a cure for our ill political system. A political system based on the multiplication of promises, giving land and water to the channels at every election campaign, with a view to obtaining a virtual majority of seats in Parliament. A political system that promoted a property concept regarding the governance of the site and the management of power, a concept which the New Democracy has as well as the PASOK. A political system that cultivated rivalry and bipolarism in the logic "the winner takes it all". The result of this tactic was the creation of governments, based on government majorities on the basis of cobbing systems, governments that are firmly removed from the people's will and people's needs. Thus, the depreciation of the political system in general and the total lack of culture of cooperation has emerged, even at this time, which is crucial, and our country is facing problems requiring wider consensus. It is therefore necessary to vote on simple analogy, because that is the only way to promote consensus and collective understanding. That is why it is difficult to understand the tactics of the parties, which, while their position was to establish a proportional electoral system, are now refusing to vote for the law on simple analogues and thus support the morbid system, to which I have referred, and the hegemonic concepts of power. The PASOK a year ago simply asked for proportions. Now he states he will not vote for the electoral law brought by SYRIZA. Who plays with election law? At the same time, political spaces, which are being cut for youth, which do not miss an opportunity to highlight how important it is for young people to participate in political life, now do not recognise them the right to vote from the seventeen. Who plays with the youth? We in this electoral law: First, we are implementing another of our programming commitments and so we intend to continue, step by step, and as long as the conditions allow us to implement the programme, which the Greek people have given us to implement in September. Secondly, we are practically confirming our position that young people can and must be involved in political life. Thirdly, and very important to us, with this electoral law we honour the struggles that we have fought for all the previous years, but also the struggles that our grandparents, fathers, our older companions, gave before us and for us. All these people are listening to us today. They are listening to us repeating what they themselves have been putting at their meetings for years. Giannis Wouaris listens to us - let me take the personal report - which he stressed at every opportunity that the mere analogous must go through to make political life clearer and stop the lost vote. Because when we vote on electoral law, you are not allowed to think of small-party profits and losses. Only the citizens must gain from electoral law. The simple analogue must enable the people to recognise their vote on the election result. By implementing our positions and our principles, we are proud to vote on the simple analogue. It is up to you to apply from the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u346	Thank you Mr. Konstantinos Morfidis, MP of SYRIZA. Mr Ioannis Antoniadis, Member of the New Democracy, now has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u347	Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. On the occasion of the black anniversary, with clean, clear words, we condemn the invasion and occupation of Cyprus by the Turks. We condemn the murders and rapes by the Turks. We condemn the existence of occupied troops even today by the Turks. We don't forget. We are committed to a lasting struggle until the final right, which is no more than a fair and sustainable solution to the Cyprus problem in European data. I am surprised to hear the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, who did not find a word to say to condemn the Turks, as if he did not kill, no one raped, no one desecrated. Such slavery is indeed unbelievable.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u348	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u349	Listen a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u350	What can I hear?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u351	I'm going to the anarchists. We condemn the existence of anarchists at the Aristotle University. They are demanding, and I would add that the already devalued public institutions and, unfortunately, the government is whistling indifferently. For tourism - the Minister has left - unfortunately with unwise and miserable actions, our islands are 'catching' from the lack of tourists. For so many months you have bombed Europe by raising this issue and by impoverished people. You have soared insecurity and now we are reaping the lack of tourists. We terrified the tourists. There are no tourists. "Clain" the islands. Eight Turks are seeking political asylum. It's purely a matter of justice. What right do government officials come out and intervene in justice? With what right does the Foreign Minister, Mr Kotzias, assure his counterpart that the matter will be resolved? What right does the Prime Minister have to assure the sultan that the matter will be resolved within 15 days? Mr Erdogan announced this to foreign media, because the Turks who seem to be submissive, empty them and do not respect them. With what right is the Turkish Ambassador threatening the country? Is he addressing Zimbabwe? And why is the government acting? Why isn't he answering? Such slavery, such subtleness is unbelievable. Where is the sensitivity and humanism of the government? Evaporated in the anarchists of the Exarchies and the anarchists of the Aristotle University. I'm coming to the bill. What are the priorities of Greek society, ladies and gentlemen? At a time when mathematics such as Marinopoulos, hotels, businesses are closing down, hundreds or thousands are added to the unemployed, instead of the government dealing twenty-four hours a day with the issue of economy and unemployment, what is it doing? Some Members have said that they are trying to disorientate public opinion. That's the second one. No, ladies and gentlemen, he is primarily trying to manipulate the vote of Greek citizens. He tries to subjugate the free will of Greek citizens. Let's see the sequence of things. It started with justice: interventions, caratism, judges' terrorism. He continues with the teams: Removal of leadership, insults, terrorisation of all of them. It continues with the independent authorities and with their inactivation. Here comes the canals. Here, we have the new 'Sultan', Mr Tsipras, who has subjugated them. The government's new "whisofes" are today's private channels. To make a comparison when Kostas Karamanlis was bombed daily with the supposed Zachopoulou scandal and the alleged Batopedi Monastery scandal. What was the reaction then? None. He respected his institutional role. He respected the independence of the channels. He could have shut it down himself. Then - and I conclude - the electoral law is coming. Why? The government says: “After me chaos. Since I cannot rule, no one can." Why did the government not agree with the other parties to find a common date for bringing the bill? In autumn 2016, in winter 2016, in spring 2017, in summer 2017. These are all neutral times. According to the Government, the elections will take place in 2019. So all these were neutral times. I am not going to the point of voting at seventeen, at the 50 seats bonus, at 3%. All of this is 'other words to be loved'. If the government wanted to put it all on the table together with the vote on the people of the regions, that would be scandalous, ladies and gentlemen, where we have the eternal MPs - governors. A term of MPs, the next governors. No one says anything. They all bow down. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, just a minute. I'm going to miss some. Society is suffocating, society is struggling. The boat's sinking. The government is sometimes "built" and sometimes machined ways to keep it in power. And it's the most immoral when citizens are hungry and young people are resurrected to find jobs. I close - and I do not have time to say everything - by saying this: let the government leave the simple analogues, let the channels and the judges in peace. Let the government deal with the real problems. That's 100% of the Greeks. That's what Greek society wants. When you do, we'll be here to help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u352	Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios, Member of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u353	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, every legislative initiative comes to satisfy a need for society or to fulfil a promise from the political forces, which have been voted in favour of for this reason. I think that the electoral law as it comes today, no urgent need for society is coming to cover. In relation to electoral law, two are the need and priorities discussed in the world, they are discussed in society, but they have not been discussed in fact in this Chamber. One need is to stop the move of black political money, which everyone admits is taking place in the large constituencies. But now that it is time to discuss the possibility of eliminating this phenomenon, the government refuses to discuss it. The other urgent need that exists at the moment is the possibility of expressing the Greeks, who in recent years have been living abroad. But this need has always been more urgent now, because we know that in recent years there have been many Greeks who have actually had to leave abroad. These two very great needs and priorities of Greek society the government refuses to discuss them. If she agreed to discuss them, then I too could share her view that it is not hypocritical, it is not opportune, it is not irresponsible, but that it is an essential and irresponsible attitude of a government that wants to see all the issues of electoral law. But he's not doing it. In relation to Greek foreigners, ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible that we should consider whether or not we should give it. It's our obligation. It's an obligation from the Constitution. To invoke some technical difficulties, I think it is absolutely hypocritical, because if the government and the President of Parliament were to bring about the New Democracy's proposal for a law on the vote of foreigners, they would see that all technical issues could really be resolved and that possibility immediately exists. And after all, Mr Minister, you say that we have pushed them abroad with our policies. Why, then, are you afraid of the vote of these five hundred thousand that we are saying abroad? We are not afraid of their judgment, we are not afraid of their attitude. In relation to the large regions, we know very well how a candidate should stand to have luck in the second Athens or even in the first Thessaloniki. There is a serious proposal in which all parties agree in theory. Because, you know, if we do not agree, we have to say that there is no dependency on the candidates of 2nd Athens, there is no connection between them and the canalarchs, there is no trade in black political money, because there is little money and a small mechanism to get an MEP out in 2nd Athens. If that is what you say, ladies and gentlemen of the government, then we should not have this debate. Instead of all this, you bring an electoral law, which is a historic moment of irresponsibility, and I say this for the following reason: you bring it at a time when the country has many issues and on these issues another one is added, which creates conditions of political instability. If we were to stand honestly on all other issues, perhaps at some point we could see, indeed, the bonus issue, as mentioned, in the first party. And for the world to know, never the fifty seats were used by the first party. It was or thirty-one or thirty-two of those which were given as a gift, as was said, in the first party. But, in such a situation as the one in Greece, with the specific political staff and the specific political forces, is there anyone who believes that it will be easy for four or five parties to form a strong government the next day, which should also govern the country at this difficult time and move on with reforms? Can anyone understand how hard this will be? The possibility of co-government, partnerships exist anyway and the civilian staff began to grow after the direction shown by the people themselves and by the electorate, and in fact in the past we have seen some steps towards this area. However, this must be done on a programme basis or on a free will and agreement, and it must also be that which results from the election. Ladies and gentlemen, today you have put another rock in all your policy, which has to do with the irresponsible way in which you manage the country's things. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. Of course it is funny to say that you are doing so because you promised the Greek people. It is certain that the only thing that you promised the Greek people, and now it's none of his business, is that. Let's please everything else, and then bring this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u354	Thank you, Mr. Georganta. Mr Karaoglu has the floor from New Democracy for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u355	Ladies and gentlemen, there is an old-known proverb, which says 'All Marieri has it, her veiler is missing'! This means that, while the government had a number of important issues before it, it deals with electoral law. He does this consciously and does this for three reasons: First he does it because he wants to disorientate Greek citizens. With a soccer terminology, since we are very close to the Euro Football, which has recently ended, "flying the ball on the platform". Instead of having pensioners deal with what really bothers them, that is, the cut in their pensions and the day after their supplementary pensions, it gives them the electoral law. And tomorrow he's preparing other things. It will give them another question of discussing the issue of the election of the President of the Republic, whether it should be directly from the people or through Parliament. There is, therefore, a disorientation of public opinion, which certainly does not work. Secondly, he tries to satisfy his left-wing audience voter, since he did not do any of what he said would make a reality. Neither the memorials torn apart, nor the other areas that he said he would act. He's trying to satisfy them at least a few with it. The third point is that the government, seeing that it is no longer a first party and in all the polls, reflects a difference in favour of the New Democracy that starts from five, six units - the lasson - and reaches eleven and twelve units - is trying to create problems in the next government, in the New Democracy Government, whenever elections are held, by bringing the simple analogy. Ladies and gentlemen, if the simple analogue was, in fact, a sacred and loyal Left, then I just wonder why you did not act in the first half of 2015, so that we can go to the September 2015 elections with the law of mere analogy. It is obvious, ladies and gentlemen, that this debate, which is currently taking place, serves us well. You claim that the simple analogue is the most genuine and most representative electoral system. Theoretically, one could say that it is so. What citizens vote is represented in Parliament. Is it, however, or should it be just this parameter that is decisive for an election system? Obviously not. There are other parameters to be taken into account. For example, the national parameter should be taken into account. There must be a threshold, a threshold of entry for a party in Parliament for reasons which we all understand. And I think that is something - to God! - you mustn't hurt it. We must not open housekeepers, allowing extreme, anti-national voices to be expressed through Parliament's sacred step. Second parameter: cyberneticity. The legislator should ensure that, on the next day of the elections, Parliament is able to form a government. I claim, ladies and gentlemen, that the current electoral law serves these parameters. And that's why? Because, first of all, there is a very good proportional representation of what is being done in society within Parliament. For the first time since the Transmigration eight existing political parties are represented in the Greek Parliament. Secondly, because it also serves rulership, since only two parties formed a government. So think if we had the simple and inappropriate analogous, as you say, we would have at least fifteen, maybe twenty parties in Parliament and would need five, six parties to form a government. It would be a very weak government, a government that could at any time fall, because when a small party, a populist party - which entered the House and is one of the components of any governmental alliance tomorrow - disagreed with one measure, obeying a political terminology, so-called 'populism' and differentiating its position from the government, the government would automatically fall and we would have other fermentations and possible elections. And all this at a difficult time, at a time when what is needed is stable governments, which can help the Greek people overcome their problems, home to change page and get the place ahead. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a section which we are discussing today, because it only deals with two things, how the 50 seats bonus in the first party will be abolished - which guarantees governance - and with a second issue, the age limit, reducing by one year the age limit for the right to vote in elections. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. But there are a number of other issues which are equally important, perhaps even more important. For example, should we not discuss the number of Members to be present in Parliament? Should we not discuss the term of office for those exercising executive power, but also for those who legislate and control the government? Shouldn't we talk about political money? Should we not discuss the break-up of electoral districts so that we can gradually go to one-sided electoral districts? All these are serious issues. These are issues which we need to discuss and these are issues which, of course, the electoral law that we are discussing today does not touch. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I have the opinion - and in response to those who speak of the need for a culture of cooperation and coalition governments - that cooperation is built between parties of responsibility, not just parties that simply plunder, to parties that serve extreme populism. That is why we call on the Greek people to be involved in a coexistence of national responsibility, so that as soon as possible the worst government the country has ever met in the years of postmopulation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u356	Complete your thoughts, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u357	Mr President, I shall end. The government's destiny SYRIZA and ANEL 'is impossible'. The expectation of hope has led you to power and the total absence of hope is that it will lead you back to the seat of the opposition, regardless of what the electoral law will be when and whenever elections are held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u358	Thank you to Mr Karaoglu from the New Democracy. Mrs. Harula Kafantaris has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u359	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a total of fourteen different electoral systems have been implemented in Greece. Since the Middle War there have been few times when the same electoral system has been applied in two consecutive elections. This is because the form of the electoral system is a field of controversy and confrontation between political parties, particularly during the period prior to the election. As Sarti says, the electoral system is the most specialized manipulation mechanism in politics. More generally, the electoral system is like a chemical catalyst, which, in circumstances, transforms popular votes into elected representatives, social will on a political basis, the current and echoing of the parties in usually four years parliamentary presence and entity and belongs to the least flexible and self-determination factors of the political system. Today we are discussing a bill on simple analogues. These two days and what we did not hear in this Chamber! We have heard, for example, from the Civilian Opposition and from a Member of the Officerial Vice-President to report: The so-called 'assessment' made by the SYRIZA - ANEL - Green Government has brought new measures. But what is the truth, ladies and gentlemen? The truth is different. This government is faithfully following its election commitments. But who? Its election commitments on 20 September 2015. You need to know, however much you want to forget this, that elections took place on 20 September 2015, and the Greek people gave us the mandate and we assumed this historic responsibility to implement a difficult agreement that you, New Democracy, PASOK, Potami, but to implement it with society upright, implementing a parallel programme for society. Our country is now heading to normality in an international environment - and geopolitically - which is not characterised by stabilisation. They're unstable in our wider area. The wars, the refugee, which comes as a result of these wars and recent developments in Turkey now require national understanding and consent more than ever. All of course, in words, consent to consent. Well, then, one of the reasons why we need to have a fixed system of mere proportionality is the need for these consensus at all levels, with agreements on a programme basis. I will not just say that a simple analogue is a question of democracy and it is a fair electoral system, a demand from the democratic world, not just on the left. After all, we are making an election commitment. I will say that in today's conditions it is the catalyst of democratic developments in our country. Someone will say: The people want rule. Simple analogue leads to insolence. We've heard that a lot in here. I will answer the following question: The Greek people themselves have been placed in relation to their vote. Since 2012, the Greek people have not voted for self-powered governments, but for governments of cooperation. So, beyond the equivalency of voting, simply proportionally opens up new paths of democratic development for our country. It means political responsibility from all the political forces of the country, apart from the sterile populist and secure, I would say - take care of - opposition. It is a way of taking political responsibility. We heard yesterday and from a Member of the Democratic Alliance, and just a moment ago from a colleague from the New Democracy on inter-terrorism, ironic comments from the press "with simple analogues you are hitting the complexion" etc. Who are they talking about strife, ladies and gentlemen? The ones who took the loan and wild from the banks? The study of the banking system, the loans of parties and media is recent and gives concrete figures. Don't go before, they're getting too much on the surface anymore. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. I shall return to a point I mentioned before. The destabilization clouds in the wider Mediterranean region are densely gathered. Situations become very serious and need to be vigilant, broad consensus, which can and must be built up by the political system. In this direction, therefore, a simple non-monetary analogue system, with an entry plaque of around 3% and - I add - guaranteed by the Constitution, which we must also see in constitutional reform, will ensure a future of stability, democracy, social well-being at a time that is unstable and full of challenges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u360	Thank you, Mrs. Kafantari, SYRIZA MP. Mr George Stylos, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u361	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are going through a difficult time in our country without any doubt. Our enthusiasm is shaken by instability and insecurity. Inside landscape, dead-ends everywhere, tide and paralyse at all levels. The government of SYRIZA - ANEL instead of hope has brought cuts in pensions, triple the insurance contributions of the OGA, abolish the ESS, inflated cleansing, new taxes, increased VAT, tax on agricultural subsidies, enhanced ENVY for many years and depopulation of villages and countryside. And all this without any development plan. The banking system is a tap without water. In 2015 and 2016, years of governance SYRIZA - ANEL, two hundred thousand small and medium-sized enterprises put a lock. Unemployment is growing. Workers - are elements of this month - flexible forms of employment have for the first time exceeded full-time workers. On the other hand, the Community's resources that could give a glimpse of breath are lost. In the NRP, in the ‘COMMUNICATION’ programme, we have no notice. In the rural development programme, the same thing. We'll wait in 2017 to get the first notices. Ladies and gentlemen, the country has dominated a diffuse pedestrian-travelling culture. The Aristotle University of Thessaloniki has been occupied by unapproachable and graphics. The Senate calls on the state to intervene, and the Minister responsible states that compliance with the legal order is not in the government's philosophy. Who thinks of postgraduate and doctoral students who want to present their work and deliver their thesis? Who strives for researchers who expect to be evaluated for their programmes, have families and expect to be financed? Against these challenges, what is the government's answer? What are her priorities? Promoting investment? The creation of a climate of stability? Of course not. It is the change of electoral law, the simple analogue, the abolition of the 50 seats bonus, the vote at seventeen, that is, in fact, the sixteen. Why now? Why didn't it be one of her first bills? Is it because now the world is turning your back on you as your government account comes to every house? Do citizens now understand your lies and delusions? While SYRIZA was in front of the measurements, he wanted the current electoral system. Twice he took advantage of the election bonus of the fifty seats. Now that he's falling apart, he wants to remove that possibility from New Democracy. What about all this? To continue the country's rule, which means what? Appointments of heteros, bonuses to friends and acquaintances, party state, anxiocracy, fanaticism and absolute truths. In simple terms, maintenance and reproduction of his pathogens and weaknesses yesterday that led us to bankruptcy. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is from opportunism and party self-interest, and I will prove to you why. The New Democracy has tabled two proposals, which are adopted by the majority of the House's parties: the fragmentation of Athens II - the constituency where we vote for one and a half million fellow citizens, 14% of the electorate - and the right to vote for the Greeks who are abroad. Over the last four hundred and fifty thousand of our fellow citizens have emigrated abroad, 10% of the electorate. They are Greeks that the crisis has persecuted abroad, away from their families and their homeland. They create, magnify, achieve, but the government punishes them, depriving them of the opportunity to participate in the elections. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, Hellenism, anywhere in the world, is a point of reference that can contribute to the regeneration of Greece. We are firmly, as a New Democracy, in favour of enhanced proportionality. We believe in the composition, cooperation, consultation, governance rather than simply recording and illustrating the election result. We believe in stable governments that decide and take responsibility. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the government proposal leads to uncertainty and depth of the crisis. At a time when the country and the citizens require rapid and substantial decisions, the government is pushing the ground on the cliffs of insolence and on successive elections. With today's parties one thing is certain that other elections will be resumed immediately in the coming elections. Time is not our ally. It has been written that you adopt the expression "great turbulence, fine situation". We will not let you do this. The big turbulence will bring your own overthrow. The New Democracy is the prolongation of the great choices, debt and duty. It's the party standing up against the history and the future of our country. It is the party that stands up to future generations. We will all be judged in the long term. Our choices shape the future of our country, with our eyes and eyes not in the next elections, but in the next generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u362	We proceed with Mr Ioannis Kefaliannis, Member of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u363	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in post-government Greece, the Left has successfully introduced several myths into Greek society. Among these prominent are the simple analogy, which the left over time surrounded by a cloak of moral superiority in relation to any other electoral system. It did so to such an extent that it was heard in this Chamber that all the other electoral laws with which this country was governed were, in fact, confusing. Of course, when there is an electoral law that is cowardly, it allows me to think that the present government will also be distorted. It is therefore up to the government to say that for the first time the simple analogue is adopted. "First time left, first time simple analogue," he heard. Personally, I do not believe that the government is so unequivocal, nor do I believe that the memory of the Members of the Chamber of Deputies is too short to go back only until the 1950s. They cannot, for example, know that from the mid-1920 ’ s to the early 1950 ’ s all elections, other than those of 1928 and 1933, were conducted in a complete analogue system. We're talking about dozens of elections. Our parliamentary representative, Mr Dendias, rightly said that the average life of these governments was only five months. Nor do they forget that the simple analogue whenever applied in our country has been linked to the darkest pages of its history, with a period of political instability, full of movements, coups, dictatorships and civils. But, ladies and gentlemen, the most worrying thing is not that. The most worrying thing is that the current political situation, both internal and international, especially now that the fragile nature of the Turkish political system has emerged, is not even concerned about them, so that our country's importance for the Western world is increased as a stable reference pole. It is a matter of principle that the Members of the Co-Population are addressed, using it as the next argument. They claim that simple analogue, regardless of political circumstances, is more democratic, more representative, fairer. Here is one question: How democratic is an electoral system which does not give the first party the opportunity to implement its policy and at the same time obliges him to cooperate with a party whose political majority of citizens rejected it? Is it, therefore, more democratic about the right of the other parties, including those who have been voted against by the Greek people, to have a say in the policy to be implemented after the elections or the right of citizens to express themselves by a majority, as reflected in the power of the first party? How fair is it to impose imperative conditions, and indeed, by invoking principles from a party of 3.5% to a party of 40%, so ideologically sterile governments of the least common denominator are made? Finally, Minister, how fair and democratic is it that a government's survival depends on 3% of the electorate? The answer, of course, is that neither fair nor democratic is it, because the sovereign policy implemented by a government - the government in question - cannot be the result of the policies of the other parties. On the other hand, it must be the expression of the will of the majority of the electorate on the basis, as this is reflected mainly by the power of the first party. In the elections, ladies and gentlemen, we are not only choosing the one we want to be governed by, but also the one we do not want to be governed by. We must not forget that. This in a representative democracy is equally, if not more fundamental, since this only ensures accountability for the rulers. So let us leave things on about democracy and justice. The electoral system cannot become Siloam's fountain for the respective rulers nor, of course, for you. The government claims that the simple analogue guarantees equality of vote. Those who understand fundamentally how the political systems operate are well aware that the way the seats are distributed and how the electoral regions are to be formed are the ones who mirror the pan-Hellenic power of the parties. That is why our prolongation, the New Democracy, has insisted on and insisted on the removal of the disharmony which exists between the one-sided and the large regions. Of course, how much equality does the government's decision mean not to enable Greeks abroad to vote at their home place? I will conclude with one comment on the other argument, which has been heard, on the simple analogue, the need, namely, for tuna to fall and for wider consensus to be sought within Parliament. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. It matters, ladies and gentlemen, who asks for this. The consensus calls for the party that is currently ruling on them, a party that only nine months ago had as its central election slogan "The One or us", the head of which said on September 20, "Or we will end or end them", a party calling on the MPs not to become "urban" by Mr Mitsotakis, a party that was destroying hatred and division today. A party that has justified political violence and which has systematically used the civil war is today recommending an electoral system, which wants to be based on cooperation and broader political compositions, a party that, when it gathered a broad political consensus last July, took us immediately to elections, moving on to political deception. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u364	Thank you Mr. Ioannis Kefaliannis, Member of the New Democracy. Mr Constantine Tassoulas, a Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u365	Mr President, let me make it clear that the debate on the electoral law by a majority in government is based on a myth and an incredible hypocrisy. First of all, who's the legend? It's the myth of the fifty seats. Fifty seats are theoretically laid down in the current electoral law, which is the sixth since 1926, when the ballot vote was abolished. However, as many times as the current law has been implemented, the fifty seats for the first party have not contributed. In May 2012, the first party, in relation to whether the elections were with today's law that you are bringing to the vote, benefited by thirty-eight seats. In May 2012, the New Democracy would simply take seventy seats and take eight. That's not a 50-seat bonus, but thirty-eight bonus. In June 2012, the first party, the New Democracy, would simply get ninety-five and a hundred twenty-nine seats. That's not fifty, but thirty-four. In January 2015, the first party, SYRIZA, with a simple analogue, would take a hundred nineteen and took a hundred forty - nine seats. That's not plus fifty seats, but plus thirty. In September 2015, the first party, SYRIZA with a simple analogue, would take a hundred fourteen and took a hundred forty - five seats. That's not plus fifty, but plus thirty one. In fact, a case that has not happened because some of the parameters - rare - have not occurred, contributes to the slandering of a law with the invocation of 'five', which, obviously, seems to be excessive, but actually has not happened so far. On the other side of the myth I mentioned, there is hypocrisy, the obsession of the Left with consistency. You are moving from the need to be consistent with what you say. So why didn't you abolish the Memorandum? Why didn't you abolish HISBIA? Why didn't you bring the thirteenth payroll? Why didn't you raise the lower payroll? Wasn't this a matter of consistency? Did you choose the painless, irresponsible consequence, since on the other hand you have backed up, did you allow the tail to be consistent at cost, and did you choose the path of avoiding compliance with what you were saying in a narrow way without even feeling the need to apologise for it? Isn't that a consequence? Is that a selective consequence? Is it consistent with easy? Now that the electoral law has been defeated because you failed to achieve the "200", you are ready to bear all the weight, all the exaggeration and all the mythology in the Constitution. There we will see the opening of the hype of populism. Since the electoral law has not come out, we're abandoning him. So listen. It's not like that. Election law is not a record of the electorate's tendencies. There's mostly to have a government. The greatest progress in the country in favour of the people's strata has been made in times of strong government, which obviously did not come out of mere analogues. In the period 1955-1963, during the period Psorokostina was defeated by the first government of Constantine Karamanlis, the country doubled private consumption, per capita income and Gross National Product. That's a philosophical policy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] This was done with a strong government that was unprecedented in a Greece in which a man, please, fifty years old at the time of Constantine Karamanlis made his first government, had lived three twists of the throne, seven movements, three dictatorships and twenty-four governments in ten years from 1944 to 1955. This stability and this performance are therefore the most pluralist policy. When did we get out of Pssacostan? In the second seven years Karamanlis per capita income reached $3,300 when it was $300 in '55. Again, we had a stable government, we still had a reinforced ratio, we still had no simple analogue. That's philosophical. Philolic is not to call for consistency when we have collapsed on issues that require conflict, which require persuasiveness, which require victory. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a minute, Mr President. You're rejoicing because you fought. I want you to hang out because you won. You're not talking about wins, you're talking about fighting. You dare not speak of victories on the left. You're finding out you're fighters. I would also like to see you winners on the subject of the memorandum, on the issue of wages, on the issue of pensions and on the subject of HISPIA. That's the situation. Mr. Glezos, an important member of your delegation, said in an interview on 27-10-2014 that the current electoral law is a snatch of seats. You are 'finished' seats, ladies and gentlemen, right now. Since January 2015, you are "cut-offs" of seats. And he also said that "we will not be accepted to have snatched seats, because as soon as we win with this cellulosic and stolen law we will change him and go to simple analogues". You're changing this law, after you've defeated twice, and since you're deeply convinced inside that you're not going to be a first party again with nothing. So you decide 'I die my soul with the strangers'. You should know that the Greek people, who are never the victim of anyone - because they have heard them too, that the Greek people were the victim of bipartism, it is a big insult to consider the Greek people as a victim - and when they gave you for twenty years 3% and when they now gave you 36%, they knew what they did. And when he put you back in the opposition, when there are elections, he'll still know what he's doing, regardless of the electoral law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u366	Finish your position, colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u367	The electoral law will not save you and the electoral law will not make it difficult for us. The electoral law is to rule the country. And I repeat that the country has overcome its problems and has ceased to be Pseudomonas with enhanced analogues and with stable governments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u368	Thank you, Mr. Konstantinos Tsouula. Mr Nektarios Santorinios, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u369	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, they have not been given a 'Resign', and today they have asked for you to resign. Before they had asked other ministers to resign. We'll tell them we're not quitting. Elections will take place in 2019 and will take place with simple analogy. Today the debate on the bill of simple analogy is a historic moment. The proposal of the mere analogous to the country, to democracy, to the people, to the progressive forces is a historic moment. For the first time after the Municipalisation, seven electoral laws have been given the opportunity to equal the vote of all Greek citizens. Why does the principle of social justice give the legislator the right to believe that the vote in SYRIZA in the previous elections, in the New Democracy or in the former PASOK is better than the vote in the JRC? Simple analogue is not just the Left's demand, but the country's entire progressive world. It's a constitutional check. It is a constitutional requirement for equality of vote, for equality of vote. But we hear a lot of arguments from the Opposition. How does the Opposition stand toward this constitutional check? PASOK accuses us that we have not brought an integer legal text, an integer law, but that they are amendments to previous laws. And he told us all five points: the abolition of the bonus must exist, but from 42% or more, to give a bonus - how this is done they will explain to us - to maintain the 3% threshold, to split new constituencies, to vote to 17 and to vote to the same family. Points 2 and 4, that is, the 3% limit and the 17 vote, are within the proposal for a law. As far as the other three are concerned, Mr Koutsoukos told us a moment ago that we are baptizing a left-wing policy. In fact, ladies and gentlemen of PASOK, when you brought the bill last year, where was the provision for the bonus after 42%, where was the division of the regions, the provision for a letter vote? Was the legal text you brought back in in full? It was your suggestion. You're literally fucking with us! What's changed since then? Honestly, what's changed? You signed it. You have reached the point of putting the instruments of interlocutory, putting the servants of interlocutory to bullying your own MPs because they have decided to vote for this law. That's down! Really, you remembered the relatives. I, too, really think that we need to find a solution for the relatives. However, in the previous legal text that you brought in in June 2015, in the previous electoral laws you voted on, where was your prediction of homosexuals? Nowhere. Why? Because then you had the "OLYMPIAKI" to bring the relatives and you went bankrupt, you had the Farmer to give you loans to transfer the relatives, and then they brought the relatives you wanted and you didn't care about the whole family. It is now obvious that the five points you have brought are prophecies in sin. You feared that Mr Mitsotakis would make his threat and rule out you from partnerships. You are selling out your places to become a "heavy" of the New Democracy. That's the truth. On the other hand, we also have New Democracy, which I must say has a consistent attitude. The Conservative party, the Right, historically in this country was in favour of the Kalining Laws, was with the majority system - we will never forget that they once voted for the trees - and that is what they want, on this basis, to steal the vote of Greek citizens. But from that point on, they're talking about lawlessness. Really, this country after the Forty-Four years in government, forty years, stable governments what did they bring? A state of rupture, a state of loot, a state of interlocutory. Is this stability defended by the New Democracy, forty years of stable governments, inequality, strife, corruption, and at the end of the memorial tombs, 'kumbars' and 'gluttons'? That was the stable governments! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. The simple analogue told us that it is a bomb on the foundations of democracy. Since when did the vote rate, justice, become a bomb on the foundations of democracy? It's a bomb in the truce and corruption they serve, that's it. And speaking of the vote at seventeen, it seems that they are not Europeans, or rather Europeans, because there is a la carte, because there is also the 2011 resolution, the 1826 Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, where Member States are invited to investigate the granting of voting rights to the sixteen. Ladies and gentlemen, we will honour our historic debt to the Left, the modern debt we have to the citizens that the years of the crisis have called for more democracy and the debt that we have to deal with the generations of the future to make them communists of the country's political life. There is a lot that separates us, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. But basically we are divided by an abyss in how we understand the principle of popular sovereignty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u370	Thank you, Mr. Nektarios Santorinio, MP of SYRIZA. Mr Alexandros Triantafylides, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u371	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, let us get out of our microcosm and see that, at this time in the European Parliament, initiatives are being taken on the essential existential problem of Europe's own existence, on initiatives for a wide alliance, so that we can also incorporate the political movement that has to do with the simple analogue, which may be the pretext for compositions, convergings, codecisions and co-responsibility. At the moment, therefore, the European Parliament is conceiving and creating the platform on which it can operate a wide alliance of Socialists, radicals of the left and of the greens, such as the Progressive Caucus initiative (the Progressive Caucus Group). At the time that Gianni Pitella, Die Linke and the Greens realise that the risk is primarily pan-European, unfortunately, sadly here in Greece, they continue to play their little games, as if politics were not about people, societies, their fate and their prospects. Those who said a year ago to create "National Greece", to go together, those who proposed the abolition of the bonus on June 2, do not realize that developments both transcend us as faces and as parties and as a country, as the common European home today suffocates, are at risk in the apparent geostrategic tantalities between Lepen's neo-fascism within it and the Islamic-fascism of ISIS, two fascist parameters that interstroy. And to say that at the moment anyone who is watching us and getting on the Internet in parliament.gr in the item "legal plans, proposals for legislation" will find the proposal for a law of the Democratic Incorporation with all signatures and then its President, Mr Venizelos, in relation to proportional representation, identical to the proportional representation he has as headline of this current draft law. And, obviously, the question comes unscathedly: What is it that, by voting on the simple analogy, implements what they themselves had proposed a year ago and now denys it? Why? Is it political with immorality or have you decided that your strategy should be Kyriakos's "purpose"? And what democratic progressive citizen will you convince him by saying "give me your vote to take her to Kyriakos"? Who will you convince as PASOK, as a Democratic Reconciliation - thankfully Mr Theocharopoulos has separated his position - by saying 'vote PASOK to get Kyriakos out'? This really comes as a historic challenge. The great PASOK, the popular and popular movement of Andreas Papandreou, who put millions of citizens into politics in the early 1980s, will end up being the "ura" of a Mitsotakis! It's ironic of history! We are talking about a simple analogue, uterus of these national, historical, patriotic, pan-European demands for shocks, consents, compositions and, above all, co-responsibility. Look, no one should be out of every day's agony searching for solutions to the daily problem. Not sitting outside and flying out of the safe rocks from the gloomy of counterpopulation, where you say unworthy of what is subjectively appreciated, without the necessary objective evidence of undeclared reality. Within responsibility, contractors together with responsibility! That is why we want the simple analogy of convergences, consensus and co-responsibility. Because from the moral point of view we are passing on to the moral responsibility, the morality of protest and claim, we are passing on to the morality of codecision, co-creation and the mutual control of good administration. At the same time that we do not abandon our ideological and worthy project, at the same time subject it to the responsibility of responsible and documented proposals based on the power of the real association of forces and the consequences of a decision. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] If you're kind, Mr. President, give me a minute and I'll close. I'm not going to say anything about the Critical Opposition, while I've prepared them, because I want to stay in philosophicalism and hypocrisy that should be a defendant's apology. Of course, the attack is the best defense. Why am I saying that? Apologise to the emigrants. Apologise for having been mocking them for 15 years since the 2001 review. You went to Johannesburg and said "Here is where the heart of Greece is beating", you patriots, the Greeks. You went to Düsseldorf and said "Here is where the heart of Greece is beating". Now the pain is on you. You've pushed out five hundred thousand people. You had the legal framework for you to create for fifteen years, essentially to implement, to act, to make a reality in the fifteen elections, which took the letter vote, but you did not do so. I would like to address this step in the capacity given to me by my colleagues of the Chairman of the Special Permanent Committee on the Hellenism of the Dissociation and to tell them that this government, the SYRIZA ANEL government, will do the letter vote, will do the documented right to its implementation, because the Greeks' vote abroad is an unpaid debt to the homeland to its xenophobic brothers. Why unpaid? The constitutional provision, Article 51(4), has remained in the timeframe of history for fifteen years and has been without a controversy and the PASOK and the New Democracy, the former power parties, had to become Opposition in order to remember and discover, with a delay of 15 years, the right to vote of the relatives established by the 2001 Constitutional Review.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u372	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u373	I shall conclude, Mr President. Thank you very much for your tolerance. We must therefore ensure with due responsibility and seriousness, with the greatest possible consensus, the fastest and safest constitutional, administrative and technical path to the implementation of their right, both by the electorate and by the electorate. To have a role, they must have a reason. I'm hanging up. You forget, or they probably won't let Mr. Mitsotakis be exposed. The New Democracy, like all the parties - I am giving the relevant road map that we sent to three thousand six hundred homogenous organizations in Greek and English - says in point 12 something that he remembered, Mr President, and Mr Athanasios of the New Democracy and I thank him very much. What do we say in point 12 that all eight parties have decided unanimously? It says in point 12.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u374	Shut up with this, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u375	'The vote of the expatriates, a matter requiring a special meeting. After processing who vote for, where they vote, how they vote, a prerequisite procedure is the scientific and technically sound process of the census of the homosexuals." I'll submit it to the Minutes. Mr. Athanasios came from New Democracy tonight and says. I transfer from the Minutes: "In Greece we have not yet recorded all the Greeks from the Greek Democratic Republic, that is, we do not have what we call a register of Greeks from the Greek Democratic Republic". Thank you very much for the confirmation. We're going to act. We address it from here, from the Greek Parliament, from the Greeks, from the Greeks, from the Greeks abroad that it is part of the flesh of the country and that their right will become a reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u376	Good. Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos from the Democratic Association has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u377	Ladies and gentlemen, while listening to government officials' statements and reading some articles on the electoral law bill, one would give the impression that the government, even slowly, acquired a culture of consensus. Unfortunately, however, that is not the case. The government, in the way it presented its proposal, aims to create a government deadlock. The only purpose is to maintain SYRIZA at the forefront of developments. Ladies and gentlemen, PASOK and Democratic Reconciliation have made it clear that the country and society need dialogue, cooperation and programming convergences. Citizens, however, have given their own stigma. The times of the one-party governments have passed. In this message from the citizens, the government had to answer and instead is looking for ways to remain in power. So power is for the government. The question for the New Democracy is the perseverance of the 50 seats bonus that substantially alters the popular will. Gentlemen of government, gamble with electoral law, bet on government instability, resulting in divisive of Greek society, leading the economy to recession, society and the citizens to fading and despair. I recall the Prime Minister's statements in reversal of his speech: 'We will end them or end them'. We also have government, but we don't have power. The above illustrates the government’s secret thoughts of electoral law, be second, and rule the country. Recently, we read a headline statement from the Minister of Education, in a provocative strategy that has recently been built, on PASOK's first-class strains leading to the Democratic Association and the PASOK party on the right. So we, Minister, answer you: we are against right-wing and left-wing populism. In the PASOK - DIMAR Democratic Assent, when the clergy fell to help save the country, we did so with responsibility and cost both political and parliamentary. We acted with responsibility for our country, and we took responsibility for our misappropriation. We have proposed, first of all, the interests of the country. Do not forget that on the path of the national strategy drawn up by the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR, 2009-2011, with divisions and reforms for the country to stay within the European Union, they came and walked on this path of the national strategy, first the Papademos government, then the Samara government - which forgot the three Zapapias and equivalents - and now the government - the first time of Alexis Tsipras' left, which, by a law, would tear up the memorials and an article would delete the debt. Now is the time of responsibility, the time of the account, and either cash, ladies and gentlemen of the government, or by card, you, gentlemen of the government, will pay the bill. This route you will walk on your own with tricks in electoral law and constitutional reform, you will no longer buy political time. The problems you have created have led you to a dead end. We first raised the issue of electoral law for discussion and were clear. Through our president, Mr. Fofis Gennimatas, we have tabled our proposal for five points of change in the electoral law that serves both proportionality and governance. Elimination of the bonus up to 42%, activation of a smaller bonus of twenty-five to thirty seats in case a party or a party coalition exceeds 42%, maintenance of the entry limit to 3%, voting in seventeen, voting in the family and Greek foreign divisions. That was what everybody was asking for. All, the Government's governments, were almost partitioning the regions. Now, not a word. You have forgotten that these major constituencies create corruption and conflict and opaque procedures. Before you denounced them. Now nothing. The conclusions, of course, yours. Gentlemen of government, seek lifesavings in blurred waters. In the committee responsible Mr Scandalides, our rapporteur, made concrete proposals with a timetable. He told you 'take everything back and go to a intergroup committee and through consultation and dialogue to reach a joint proposal'. If nothing else, if you wanted consensus and dialogue, you had the opportunity. Now, however, you have lost it and now we are discussing the electoral law according to the beam and a card, with simple proportional fragmentation in doses. We will not consent, gentlemen, to your deeds, because we are the side of responsibility, because we are the party and the party that raised the country up and kept the country standing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u378	We thank Mr Constantopoulos and the consistency in time. Mr. Jason Fotillas from the river has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u379	Ladies and gentlemen, the first question, to which we are all told today, is whether there is a need for radical changes in our country's electoral system in the context of a general reform of the political system? Apparently, yes. The river calls it out of its founding. We have already tabled a concrete and comprehensive proposal in any event. But does this bill respond to this need? Obviously not with these'remedies' arrangements that it brings. So what's the need for this bill to answer only four of its articles? In a need, in your further stay in power, and in order to achieve it, you are prepared to use every means, even now that you see that it is in the winter that you are devastated by the tragic consequences of your politics in society. You can, of course, work with anyone in order to achieve your purpose beyond ANELs with whom you are already working with, you have haggled, I would say, even with Golden Dawn, although it has not come to you. I don't say it accidentally. I heard Mr Kurublis a few days ago saying publicly on the channels that 'We are missing three to make two hundred'. I wondered if they lack three to become two hundred, so they assume that Golden Dawn will vote "yes", but...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u380	You thought you'd put your mind on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u381	A few days ago, did he think of us? What can I say? Eventually, however, this effort went awkward, but the attempt was probably made. Now why do we not know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u382	Because you're wondering, I'm telling you, he thought you were.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u383	Please, I have some time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u384	Please don't interrupt, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u385	Minister, the truth is that you are ruthless and two-faced. You're a circus dangerous to the country and this time clown is Mr. Kurublis, who...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u386	It's the inch of the fifth time I've heard it from the tape you're reading.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u387	Minister, please, let me speak a little bit. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u388	In our expressions, we should be a little...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u389	There is a term 'political clown'. Well, Mr. Kurublis - and describe him as you, after telling you what his actions are - a few weeks ago he publicly stated on the channels - I will quote his words in this regard - that if the bonus is abolished the country will never be governed and today it comes to say that if the bonus is not abolished it will be a disaster for the country. I wonder how much further down, so can we go when a minister in a few weeks can make the white so unregulated? What political principle are you talking about? Who are you finally trying to make fun of? Of course, insolence. You know very well that if such a concrete electoral system is implemented there is no possibility of converging. There are railway examples, we see them next to us in Spain or Italy where your friend Mr. Renji is preparing a new electoral law providing for bonuses. Is Mr. Renji getting ready, too? You are, of course, denying the river proposal, which combines a more proportionate system of governance, but also the possibility of forming a government in the country. But I would also like to hear from the Qualified Opposition - and I do not see it now being here - what is its official view of the 50 seats bonus? I've heard public places like...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u390	I'm sorry, but the opposition is here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u391	The Qualified Opposition yes. I don't see a lot of people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u392	We're missing your criteria.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u393	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u394	I would like to hear the official position of Officer Opposition on the bonus of the fifty seats, because I have heard public position of MPs, such as Mrs Bakoyannis or Mr Kaklamani, who have been publicly placed and have said that they believe that the river proposal for a more proportional bonus is fair. I apologise in every case if I offended you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u395	No, I don't have a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u396	So I have heard them, and I would like to hear the official position of the New Democracy. Do they think the bonus should be combined with the performance of the first party, or should it be fifty seats, say in any case either the first party gets 20% or takes 40%? But to return to you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, why don't you give the right to vote to citizens who left Greece because of the crisis? Why do you not vote on the relevant amendment to the River? What are you afraid of? Pour crocodile tears for the young people who leave, for the brains we lose, but not let them vote, because they will obviously "black you" for your policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u397	Not at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u398	Still, with what right do you play games with the student vote? Do you want to sprinkle populism in schools, turning education into a pre-election post? Even your Chamber of Adolescents pointed out it is populism at the age of sixteen. You may want to do schools the same as universities, but we cannot allow you to do so. Finally, with what right do you not split the electoral districts? It was your election promise, remember? The country, ladies and gentlemen, continues to drift. Citizens are constantly feeling it in their homes, in their jobs, in their daily associations, no matter how much you are trying to hide it with such reeds. Listen to this. SYRIZA MP - listen, Mr. Loverdos - said publicly in a radio interview that pensioners are approaching the street and they say to him "cut us more than 50 euros, as long as you build the electoral law and the channels". I mean, I heard it and I didn't believe it. How low can someone get? Ladies and gentlemen, do not think that, with your treacherous analogy, you will remain in power for a long time. Besides, your political account has long gone wrong. The real national interest at this juncture is that the country should not remain in a government vacant, while at the same time a more proportional electoral system. That's what I defended and I'll defend to the end, no small-scale bazaars. This piece of legislation does not comply with these principles, and I am voting against it in its entirety and in all its articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u399	Thank you, Mr. Firela. Mr. George Chogas, member of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u400	Thank you, Mr President. I hope that at some point Mr Fotillas will withdraw the phrase 'circus' of the SYRIZA, otherwise he will have fallen very low, at least at political level. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, Mr Arabatzis, following the storm and your particular criticisms that he accepted in the committees of this House, this bill has proved to be embodied and without spins that the political gap between the government and the Civilian Opposition is, at least, huge and so it should be. It has also proved that your refusal to support a, in general confession, emblematic bill that goes beyond party searches and is identical to the core of democracy, is unrealistic and politically unjust. And so, you became bound by a vast populism. However, you strongly disagreed with the time when the government chose to discuss the bill and that it allegedly conceals political and electoral purposes. This is a false reference and a false finding, since the vote on simple analogue and electoral adulthood in the seventeen years is our promised pre-election commitment. Because the time of selection is neutral, politically colourless, electorally indifferent, since they will certainly be in 2019. So there is no feasibility or opportunism, apart from your own opportunism, your own amoralism and your own political turbulentism, which you are unscrupulously attempting to drag the country into a new cycle of elections, when the recovery of the Greek economy seems to be with the utmost certainty, because the country has lost 25% of GDP and the workers have suffered eleven continuous reductions in wages and pensions. Our government has proposed consensual procedures and reasonable non-existent approach, but you have, however, refused to accept the feeling that the Greek society already accepts the coalition governments and you are simply tragediest of the situation. The new Republic has put forward, as a proposal, what has not been introduced by this bill so far, given its so-called amendment, for which it has taken 30 years to make it public. You did not use immature and unrelated arguments, nor did you have against the regulation of the abolition of the fifty-seat bonus. On the contrary, you defend their existence, your insulting and disgraceful choice for your Greek society of choice from the past, which distorts and distorts the electoral process, as the election result changes in the interpretation of the voters. That's what you're doing. You are defending the illusion of the election result and you are using as a counter-protect the danger of the country's rule of law. A "noble" argument that reverses the desire of the electorate, which has already been recorded in recent polls, that 42% of the New Democracy and 58% of the entire electorate are in line with the implementation of simple proportionality in our country. You are against Greek society and our times. You notice, obviously intentionally, that in the draft legislation under consideration there is a safety net and protects against any risks of insolence in the best way, since it prevents insolvent party formations that do not exceed the 3% threshold represented in the House. Of course, the government recognises the need to resolve both the riddle of the Greeks' vote abroad and the fragmentation of the major constituencies. However, our objections to these issues are obviously funny because they come from those who have been dominated over the last forty years in the political scene and have not done anything. [[This is where the warning bell ends the speaker's speaking time ends.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Government has for a long time avoided regulating the issues of Greek foreign affairs and the fragmentation of the major regions, because it considers that they need special treatment and, above all, the establishment of a common place by the parliamentary forces of the country. For the vote at seventeen. The bill contains the extremely interesting provision of extending the right to vote from the eighteen to the seventeen years, which is an element of overstatement and responsibility for us at the same time, but also of confrontation with the seventeen to whom they are given the opportunity to take part in the decisions relating to their future, and you deprive it of it. Refusal to the clearest and most inappropriate look of tomorrow's society, to assume responsibility for overcoming and progressing the political system with fraudulent and false arguments, because you claim that since legal capacity has a threshold of eighteen years, it is contradictory that young people have the right to vote at 17. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, just one more minute, please. But things are different in law, and there is no relentlessness you put forward when the sixteen-year-old child has the ability to show up in court and is entitled in person to lodge an application for a marriage permit and be represented by a lawyer. Thus, a married minor is capable of any act necessary to maintain or improve his or her family or property, he or she can lease property, collect income and be present for them in court. In the end, this is a vote at sixteen and not a vote at seventeen. If that is the case, since 1981 we have had no vote at eighteen, but at seventeen, and for decades you have been cheating on the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy seeks the alliance with forces of social democracy and the centre and with a peculiar chameleonism and most fragile hypocrisy states that it is a relative political force of the centre space and seeks their political deception, as usual. Who's saying that? The lovers of neoliberalism. I remind you of her proposal for insurance. Active reduction of public expenditure, i.e. wages and pensions and private insurance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u401	Complete your thoughts, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u402	Yes, Mr President, I shall conclude immediately. Finishing, I'll be done with the following: Ladies and gentlemen, the vote on this charming bill that can shape the political field from the bad things of the past is a one-way street. Those who believed in democracy, enchanted by its excellence, fought for its predominance and believed that the simple analogue treaty would once find the way to impose and implement it, are obliged to pass this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, history has begun to write. Don't turn her back! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u403	Thank you, Mr. George Choga, SYRIZA Member.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u404	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u405	Here, Mr. Lightla, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u406	I thought about it and I admit that the only reason why I could withdraw - and perhaps I do - is because I would not like to get involved in legal adventures that I would probably get lost with the various clown associations across Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u407	Well, that's not a correction. It recommends updating your thinking to the worst. Mr Papatheodorou, Member of the Democratic Association, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u408	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I note this evening - and I noticed yesterday - that there is a special interest in the electoral future of PASOK and the Democratic Alliance. Anguish great. I heard about Mitsotakis' tail. At the same time, however, I have also heard of a co-responsibility. We will see this for the electoral future. For the time being, ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA has put it in the line since yesterday, and I think you should admit that. But I'll explain why. Don't worry. I think that we should also talk about the co-responsibility, but also about the tails we should talk about. What I think we should all be sad about is that the debate on simple analogues finally begins as it started. Glory. This is because it was made without substantial agreement, without seeking to formulate wider political and social majorities, without real reform of the electoral system and addressing chronic diseases. Unfortunately, the final vote will seal the small government's prospective draft, which has failed to inspire consensus on a national draft reform of the political system. Why am I saying that? Replacement of the political dialogue due by leakages, micro-determinations combined with yesterday's manifestation of the Golden Dawn as a regulator of the search for two hundred votes, was ultimately the trap that the government built and finally fell on its own. Then, within the political panic of isolation, he began to discuss with parliamentary and extra-parliamentary figures. Really, I wonder why the Prime Minister didn't see Mr. Lafazani, Mrs. Konstantopoulou, Antarsya, many others? From what I understand, there's been too much time, and I think it was a long omission. At the same time, SYRIZA blames PASOK for not participating in this regeneration of democracy, as I have heard it say. It warns, however, that this system of mere analogy will eventually be applied when SYRIZA leads the country to double elections. That means not co-responsibility, but a great deal of responsibility on the part of SYRIZA. Finally, when the tank is deprived by Lenin "usable idiots", the government passes into low-flight communication. And we really have very low flight communication here. Why? For the government was not proved to be even to a small brave one, as was the relentless Maronite. It did not accept any of the proposals made to it. He didn't enter any dialogue. Finally, now with this particular plan, of mere analogy, it is simply seeking to settle the alliances of the next day. That's why there's all this noise, so you blame PASOK that we don't collide in your plan, because you want to set up the next day. The Left's historic claim for simple proportional and changing the electoral system was, in fact, limited to two very important articles: the abolition of bonuses and the vote at seventeen. But let's see if that's just proportional. Ultimately, so missing, unprepared, fragmented, tactical gave the result expected for us. Wrong in the wrong, it makes us wrong, ladies and gentlemen. But, if things had happened differently, what is the main objective of establishing mere analogy? The greatest and best possible matching of the popular will with the representation system, the treatment of distortions in the major constituencies and the safeguarding of the country's governance through the achievement of programming partnerships between the parties. You did not even agree to discuss these. Why am I saying it? Because the system that you are discussing today is not just proportional. No party has proposed a mere proportional system. Only the Communist Party of Greece. All had specific corrections: the 3% correction, our proposal to correct the thirty bonus seats since the first party gets 40% to 42%. They are not simple proportional systems. It's a weighted analog. What you are proposing and what we are proposing is a weighted analogue. So, in your proposal, we tabled a proposal, which also said about the regions, saying about the vote of the Greeks abroad, and it said things that you refused to discuss even when we told you, you can withdraw it, freeze time, give time to a debate and get to common places, responsibility. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, can I have your tolerance for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u409	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u410	Thank you. Therefore, the electoral law, ladies and gentlemen, which we are debating today, is based on what is currently in force, with the correction of the bonus. That is why we are proposing another route with the five points, with other points tabled by the Potami, with other proposals, but you have not even given the time to consult. Why? Because in your unsuspecting time, as you said, you have voted on this draft law, you have not even had the time to consult and discuss any other proposal. The bonus reduction, the abolition of the bonus - we consider this bonus to be unconstitutional - comes to be replaced by another proposal, of course, when the first party has been strengthened by the will of the sovereign people. When it has been strengthened, in other words, at 40% -42%, which gives it access to governance, which will be given. Apart from that, however, I think we should see how SYRIZA chose to handle this - if you would like - a debate in the House. For me personally, this debate is an ideological and political defeat of the SYRIZA. Not because the Golden Dawn is gone. Not for that. You're wrong. It is for what you have chosen to do since the first moment, Minister, because you said so before. It's not about Golden Dawn at all. It is because you sought to have a hundred ninety-seven, a hundred ninety-eight, two hundred votes to push the other parties, when you have not discussed the political content and political status of simply proportional all this time. We had a meeting of party leaders with the Prime Minister and we also had a debate in the committee. Nothing else happened. This is the political defeat of the Left, this is the political defeat of a party that wants on this draft law to build the co-responsibility of tomorrow. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Can I tell you something? And I shall end with that, Mr President. The problem is very simple. When we asked for all this from Mr Kurublis, he said: 'Declar now, come to vote and we will see the rest tomorrow'. A party which has so far been a party like the SYRIZA Government, do you think it has political credibility, so that we can discuss or believe in its promise tomorrow? No, it's a promise of mockery, because what you're interested in is settlement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u411	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u412	I shall conclude with a phrase, Mr President. One sentence is that in the end, ladies and gentlemen, there is something worse than a lost opportunity. There's the given fact and the fact that you haven't even realized there was an opportunity. That was the failure of the government, that was its policy of defeat, against the debt that Mr Famelos had - and they are not two words, it was one - it said: democracy. In democracy you are accountable, not in PASOK, nor in Civicism. That's where you failed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u413	Thank you, Mr. Papatheodorou. We're moving on with SYRIZA's MP, Mr. Hussein Zabeck. Mr. Hussein Zabeck, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u414	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today is the imprint of the leading democratic change in the country, of the change in our electoral system. In the theory of political sciences, electoral law is described as "law of laws", which demonstrates its importance. The simple analogue has always been a distinctive element in our left and fixed position. It clearly demonstrates respect for the will of our people, and it is for us that A and O of democratisation. With this electoral law, too, we are seeking to give new impetus to our electoral system by choosing the enlargement of the electorate. The first point of the law introduces the vote in seventeen years. It is, perhaps, the most important point for enlargement of the electorate. Today's new generation is a generation which so far has not been heard and we must give it the right to express itself. Today's teenagers are active and active in politics, and can be democratically expressed through vote. Besides, the levels of illiteracy at this age are inexistent, and even the Council of Europe itself has urged for votes in smaller ages. This is the resolution that has also been adopted by countries such as Scotland, Austria and certain Länder of Germany. In this way, apart from being able to involve more citizens with the public, we are promoting the greatest possible democratic expression and the best degree of representativeness. Our space, in this way, disguises society and hopes to leave a strong case to the democratisation of our society and of our electoral system. The second point I wish to make is the introduction of a mere analogous. The introduction of simple analogy is a historic moment for the Hellenic Parliament and the Hellenic Republic. After the fall of the dictatorship and the system of enhanced analogy, with the many variations in the number of seats bonuses, for the first time we put an end to the systems of alteration of the true will of the citizens, we put an end to the electoral law that sought to remain the government, governments that, through this practice, have for decades established distorted dualism, where every sense of transparency was lacking. This is a change that puts the people's will at the forefront and is linked to equality of vote as laid down in Article 4 of the Constitution. Our people are mature enough to elect their representatives, without a electoral law that corrects their vote. In addition to the representativeness that it ensures through the cooperation that will arise, it leads to the deepening of democracy and the transparency of power management. As we speak of the democratic expression, as well as the support of the democratic culture in general, I would like to refer to the statement by the rapporteur for the Golden Dawn on the Standing Committee on Public Order and a Member of his party today in plenary to my face. Based on a false event involving the death of a nineteen-year-old soldier in Glaki, Xanthi, the known systemic means of the region in orchestration with the Golden Dawn party tried to create a subject from which they did not respect even the pain of the young man's family. In order to hurt my government and my face, they have made statements which are absolutely false and which do not in any way correspond to the reality or democratic culture. They did not hesitate to use the Greek flag in their names and tried to sow hatred in the local society. However, they did not show any evidence of the claims made. For this reason, we are not going to give in to the provocations and dirty games that are trying to play against local society and the minority. There is now a reason for justice, because unlike some, we have confidence in the democratic institutions of the state, which protect every citizen. In conclusion, I would like to stress that we will shield - and we must do so - democracy in the country against all sorts of fascist perceptions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u415	Thank you, Mr. Hussein Zabeck, SYRIZA MP. Mr Mustafa Mustafa, a Member of SYRIZA, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u416	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since he is serious, he is severely deceived above the country, the subject of the debate on the introduction of mere proportionality. There are risks of insolence, categories of tactics, disorientation of public opinion, opportunism, acceptance of the SYRIZA defeat now and everything else you can imagine. Tomorrow this bill will have been passed, with any majority voting, it will be a law of the state, the 'disorder' of public opinion, of our people, will be over, we will have done a task for which we have been committed by all our actions, and the opposition will again talk about the padlocks, about the tax raid, about what has been used to this time. Colleagues and colleagues, I have participated in the political activities of the country since post-Culture and on this occasion. Since I filled the age limit, I have been a candidate in my prefecture, almost all election campaigns, but few exceptions. How many hours have I talked, how many hours have we lost to the electoral system, is incalculable, because every time it changed the electoral system. In fact, in all elections, the first question asked - artificially - by the representatives of the former two-party system was what the electoral system is. With the explanation of the system, the further debate on the programme of the parties was closed immediately, with the expression'sympathy': 'You are good but a small party. There's no grace from you. At any time we shall vote on you.' I've experienced too much, and I have many memories. We plucked out in elections with the 'Kee change - second division', because for the second division it was necessary to get a party 17%. In 1993, for a few tens of thousands of votes the coalition had not entered the House and many had then anticipated the disappearance of this place. Many people, some well - meaning and others with a lot of hardship, said: “Let it be my lad, don’t worry about it. If you have your job, what are you practicing?" Fortunately, I, and my generation, had done them in politics at a good school, at the JRC and at the left, and had gained tolerance, had been trained with the principles of supply, genuine love for the country and the people, the principles of humanism and internationalism, with all the good and positive things that the Left had done in the country and the people. In the 1996 elections there was the process of normalisation and I was elected MP Rhodopes with the highest percentage of the totalitarian coalition in Greece. Until late, until dawn, the ball went one to one county and one to the other. As soon as the result has been finalised, an appeal was immediately made to the Electoral Court. It has been said that it is wrong and that the seat cannot be changed. Brother, the electoral law is yours, you studied it, you vote it, you apply it, why drag myself into the Elections? Still, he went to the Electoral Courts. In the September 2015 elections we had the ethnic law of the 50 seats bonus. What's the word, "mono"? Our language is wrong, ladies and gentlemen. Couldn't we call it a gift, a "face" or a "baxis" or a "think" in the first party? In January 2015, the law was good, while in September bad, because the poll with this law raised two SYRIZA seats and one seat in Potami in Rhodope and three SYRIZA seats in Xanthi and one similar case in Corfu. We had before appealed to the Electoral Court. I could list many such examples. That is not the case, ladies and gentlemen. The electoral system cannot be elastic, tensed and relaxed according to the occasion. It was a minimum obligation for us to take this legislative initiative, even with the criticisms that are being made at this juncture, to domesticate and humanise the electoral law, the political perspective of our country, with whatever majority, and whether it is voted on. Indeed, it is an astonishing impression that the attitude of some parties to justify the unjustified ones. We have seen tears about the lack of extensive dialogue, about the Greeks abroad, about our children who were forced to relocate for the large elections. Forty years we have had these problems and so far they have been maintained. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] On the 3% threshold for entry to Parliament, I would like to say that there has been a more general acceptance of this limit. There were serious opinions in favour of keeping it. At this juncture, it seems that this threshold will remain. With regard to the reasoning of some - fortunately a few - who pose national risks, the fear of parties with a national sign, of independent MPs, I would like to remind you: in the successive elections of 1989 and 1990 we had an election of individual candidates in Rhodope and Xanthi. Their election was the result of discrimination policies, restrictive measures, various administrative sanctions against minorities from the years of dictatorship to those days. I would like to remind you that in those elections the only real political and ideological opponent of these candidates was the Left and absent the other mighty political forces, who were accountable for the policies implemented. Speaking of all three elections - in 1989 twice and 1990 - I was a candidate, as were my colleagues from Xanthi of the then unified coalition. We then had a difficult task on the one hand to demand the elimination of discrimination against minorities, the safeguarding of equality and equality of opportunity, and on the other hand to counter the policy of individual candidates from positions of principle with political arguments, on the other hand, on the grounds that despair, despair, oppression should not lead societies to extremes, divisional perceptions, entrepreneurialism, but, in a common struggle with the forces of democracy, progress, coexistence with the trusted people of society to overcome these difficulties. That period ended with the signing of the Memorandum - Good Memorandum - of the three Heads of the Ecumenical Government under Xenophon Zolota, who put an end to a difficult period in our region and opened a window for isology and isopoliticalism in the region of Thrace. We have chosen this difficult path, this difficult road we are going on and we will continue. We'll call the figs and boats on all sides. Our sensations are not selective, but are general for everyone and everything. We will strive to escape as a country from the crisis and to keep our country oasis of stability in our region. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u417	Thank you, Mr Mustafa Mustafa, MP of SYRIZA. Mrs Panayota Dritsel, SYRIZA Parliamentary, has the floor for five minutes. Let me let you know where we are. After Mrs. Dritelli, Mrs. Arabatzi will take the floor and Mrs. Genria will be closed. The rest of you tomorrow. Here, Mrs. Drittelli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u418	Thank you very much, Mr President. It's hard to discuss when midnight arrives. However, we cannot forget what we have heard in recent weeks, nor what we have heard in committees, nor what we in plenary today about this bill. I start with two concerns, which, of course, we have mentioned too many times, but it seems that the party of Officerial Opposition does not say to understand, but not to overtake. A strategic deadlock, which is facing and which seems to be stumbling it up in every bill that this government brings to the vote, is something that keeps it back too much. To denounce us for things that we have not implemented, because we have not been able to do, and for which we are committed, it is something that we all understand. But to denounce us for things that we are committed to doing and doing, it is a paradox. Indeed, a New Democracy colleague has come to say that we are the slaves of our political commitments, because we are bringing the simple analogue to vote. Here's to laugh. Really, it's laughing. On the other hand, because I thought about it again, I said: “Have you learned so? But say before the elections and others to do after the election, so is it perfectly normal for you?' On the other hand, we have one certainty that I do not understand and which I hear constantly. The New Democracy says that in the next elections it will be a first party. Yes, sir! Obviously, the citizens move to your offices and tell you or reward you for the policy you have pursued, or for the strategy you are going to pursue, or on the streets you are going to see, when, at last, you will come back to things, or - do not tell me - look at the polls. Obviously, you're looking at the polls, the credibility of which I don't need to comment on. I feel that you are just trying to avoid responding to critical and very basic political questions. What are these? What political system do we need and what political system will finally link us to society? A political system that will be away from citizens' choices? A political system whereby, whatever the citizen votes, they themselves and they will be governed forever? Do we want a political system that creates fireplaces and power networks that will never change? Such a electoral system, ladies and gentlemen, has been tested in our country for at least four decades. With what results? The citizen's relationship with politics has changed in relation to patronage and customer, the citizen's relationship with political parties has changed in relation to customer reliance, the citizen's relationship with the elections itself has changed in a relationship of indifference. To these problems, we come to respond with this bill. Our aim is to reactivate the collective voice of society. We want a political system that really represents the popular will and seeks compositions on this basis. That's the beginning, that's the value principle from which we start. In this very logic we establish equality of vote. The abolition of the bonus is the pillar for the simple analogues, and the parliamentary power of the parties will be equivalent to the actual percentages they receive in each election campaign. This change in the country's electoral system will result in the strengthening of parliamentary pluralism and pluralism. The Civic Opposition, of course, and the parties of the Essen Opposition, are at risk on this issue, of course, invoking the risk of impoverishment. However, this argument is quite destructive, since in recent years in all the national elections, even with this system no party has managed to have parliamentary self-reliance. In any case, my other colleagues have said so. Also, New Democracy is attempting to link this historical division of mere proportional to micro-political interpretations, considering that this bill is a confession of defeat of SYRIZA. These political approaches really show how the political system worked so many years, how micropolitical calculations alienated the old parties from the social base. The New Democracy is evident that it wants the bonus not to have the place stable government, but to claim fifty chairs in addition to all those that SYRIZA dulled out and today may be conspired with expecting the sharing of a supposed tomorrow's pie. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, just one more minute and I'll be done. Finally, I want to say something about the vote at seventeen. We have heard from the Vice-Population MPs in general putting out the well-known conservative views of the immunities of students up to incredible arguments about the age that one can do for sale or consume alcohol. All this neo-conservative delirium shows how far the Civic Opposition is from youth, how deep the gap between the New Democracy and the young people of the country is, how much she fears youth and is mostly afraid of it for micro-political reasons, because she knows that her youths have turned her back and that her calculations insist that the right to vote should not be extended. Unfortunately, that's the truth. I conclude, Mr President, by saying this: The time we all knew has come to an end and we are changing the page and politics changes in that country. The new electoral system captures this change and the SYRIZA who introduces this incision actually does so away from any micro-party calculations. This society recognizes it and knows it well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u419	Thank you, Mrs. Dritsel, SYRIZA Parliament. Mrs Fotini Arabatzis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u420	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, after the thirteenth and fourteenth pensions enjoyed by the citizens, the abolition of HISPIA, the lifting of the minimum wage to 751 euros, the reduction of unemployment, the businesses that open one after the other and, of course, the establishment of fair growth, it is time to change, as the most consistent government that ever passed, and the electoral law, to bring the simple and inappropriate analogy that, of course, is a sign of salvation to stay in the political game at a time when it is pollutingly - and not only - you collapse and also evil coincidence can deprive the New Democracy of its ability to rule or even self-reliance. Such political opportunism, such a made-up political opportunism, with excellence, of course, has no historical precedent. Mr. Tsipras is evolving into Nero of the country's political life, sacrificing everything on the altar of his political and personal survival. He wants, he says, Mr. Tsipras to rebuild democracy and politics, but first on fire to burn everything. Cressent political amoralism by a government which a year ago consciously led the country outside the euro and outside of Europe and now consciously leads it to chaos and powerlessness in one of the most critical and difficult moments in its history. It is a government nostalgic of the Italian model of political life, which, of course, Italy itself has abandoned. In order to establish the simple analogous position, Mr Tsipras invokes the consistent position of the Left, but obviously only naive can his words and arguments convince him. It is the Prime Minister himself who, without any shame at all, publicly states that the citizens knew that what they were promised could not implement, but nevertheless they voted for him, the Prime Minister who, without beating himself, says that the privatizations, which you so frustratedly fought, are now a left policy and is the same one who remembered to honour the Left's demand for simple analogues. It provokes and invites MPs from the other parties until the last minute to apostate from their parties in order to serve themselves, the one who in 2014 threatened to vote for the President of the Republic to pass on him as a silver and apostate. In addition to Mr Tsipras, however, there is unfortunately no shame that Mr Kourublis, who recommends electoral law, is the same person who said a few weeks ago to the media that the mere analogue without any small bonus leads the country to incorporation and is the same person who currently sits in the cabinets and recommends the construction of Mr Tsipras. But, of course, the Minister does not - I imagine - have no difficulty in saying it like this and making it different. After all, it was the same that, as a PASOK MEP - to remember - was voting for the law by which the New Democracy was prevented in 1989, with the then Chief of Constantine Mitsotakis, becoming a government in two elections, despite the fact that it was more than 45%. Of course, both Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kourublis forget that if the law that they now bring to Parliament and introduced applied to the January 2015 elections, neither one would obviously be the Prime Minister nor his other Minister, because only the Independent Greeks would reach you to make this government. Of course, this, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, would be a salvage for the country. We would save the third Memorandum, the EUR 86 billion cap and, of course, Mr Varoufakis. The country would be out of a memorial and orbit of regularity, but, of course, the bonus, ladies and gentlemen, was good, and Mr. Tsipras would then rush to make SYRIZA a single party to fruit it. After being fruitful and becoming a Prime Minister twice, with fraudulent and cowardly law, as you now call it, he comes to mislead the House by saying that he is changing the electoral law to bring democracy and the political system up quality. In fact, you are selling fine ideology, but in reality your motives are other, to prevent the possibility of forming a government in the next House from making responsibility for what you have committed up to now, for how we arrived in the third memorandum and for the actions of Mr Varoufakis and others, which almost led us out of Europe. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, your tolerance for a minute. If SYRIZA were interested in upgrading democracy and the political system at all, it would obviously accept voting for the relatives and the major electoral districts, such as Athens, which is recommended by the New Democracy and supports the majority of the parties. But your Prime Minister does not listen. He doesn't want the vote of the relatives because he's afraid of her. Breaking the electoral districts doesn't want to be those who from the alliance of Leventis willingly have promised you to support your law. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, in a society that is experiencing the policies of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, the policies that have led to the reduction of wages and pensions, the cutting of the EASA, the closure of hundreds of large, small and medium-sized enterprises, Mr. Tsipras prefers instead of bread to only share sights and hopes that the debate on the electoral law will make the wrong reality come out of topicality. If you don't understand it, you will soon be reminded by the citizens that by a mere analogue, neither can you pay taxes nor can you replace the cut-off pensions and of course not pay your medicines. But thankfully for the country, and unfortunately for Mr Tsipras and his companions, the electoral law will not go through with the increased majority of the Housearians. Your plan to block the governance of the New Democracy will be a failure and the Tsipras-Kourublis law will be annulled immediately by the next House, which will be a government with the vote of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u421	Thank you to Mrs Fotini Arabatzis, Member of the New Democracy. We're moving on to the last speaker for today, Mrs. Georgia George from SYRIZA, for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u422	Tolerance for a minute, me too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u423	Tolerant, you too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u424	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA brings the new electoral law to the Greek Parliament. The new law selects, firstly, the introduction of the proportional electoral system, while at the same time abolishing the support of the first party and, secondly, it is defined as the limit of electoral adulthood in the seventeenth year. The government today performs its historic duty, from the late Elias, to this day, constantly denouncing the parties of power for malnutrition, as they did not bring the system of mere analogy to the vote. On the contrary, they applied majority systems to steal the votes of the Left. With this law, and if some are displeased, the power of popular vote is translated into practice and the people themselves come to the fore and power, both through the fairest analogy and through the reduction of the age limit. For the first time, there is a brake on the thunderstorm and the slisves of power, which have for years falsified the will of many, turning it into a'magazing' of a few and even a premium. At the same time, step and strength are given to the most active part of society, in tomorrow's place, in the new generation that everyone mentions in tear words, but they forget in hours of responsibility. In the new generation that no one has dared until today to give her a step, a reason and a force, to change tomorrow. It is thus seeking to make young responsible citizens, participants in social life and in the shape of their future. In addition, the 17-year-olds themselves are invited to decide on their lives by choosing their professional course and subsequent development. Why, then, are some afraid of the will of young people? Why have they not been able to smash their ideals and postpone their ideas by filtering them through party tubes and mechanisms? So younger citizens are the generation that is in danger of suffering the consequences of the crisis, but at the same time it is the most vibrant part of the Greek society, on which all hopes for a sustainable and fair overcome of the present difficult situation are based. We must strengthen the multi-party parliament with the voice and participation of young people. We must allow them to work together with the developments, which, after all, concern their own future, mainly. It's just, ladies and gentlemen. Are you in favour or against mere analogy? You cannot be against today, much more than those of you in the past, and at the most recent, you have been in favour of mere analogy or have fought for it. Ladies and gentlemen of PASOK, why do you lead to these revolts? May I remind you of the positions of the late Andrew Papandreou? Under these positions, therefore, you had tabled a proposal for a law, and when your proposal comes today as a bill from the SYRIZA Government, you are against it. Really, why? You have transformed PASOK, gentlemen, from a potential Left Ally to a New Democracy tail. Are you, ladies and gentlemen of the JRC, in favour or against mere analogy? You must take a clear position. You cannot hide behind the necessary 3% ceiling and go beyond your political obligation to support a left-hand choice with a dry'resident'. It is not politically correct and it does not honor you. Even you, gentlemen of the New Democracy, should have a say and a role in discussing the electoral law and the reform of the political system. You could, if you want. But unfortunately, gentlemen, neither can you nor will you. Your stress about power blurs your mind. You're in a hurry and you're stumbling. Your irreversible voices for elections no one takes them seriously anymore. Take the ball, elections will take place in three years. Stop asking for them all the time. We, gentlemen, are honest, clean and serious. We're not playing with electoral law. You, ladies and gentlemen of the PASOK and of the New Democracy, were the ones who brought the electoral laws at the last minute to regulate the evolution of things. However, the current government brings the electoral law three years before the end of its term. We are not aiming at micro-party benefits. We're not legislating. Gentlemen, the country needs dialogue, it needs coolness, sobriety and seriousness, especially seriousness. A plan for progressive reforms is needed to modernise and reorganise the state apparatus. We need policies in favour of the weak, the non-preferential ones. Mostly it takes work, a lot of work to get away from the vicious cycle of crisis and return to fair growth, with society standing. This is not only the government's responsibility, but it is also the responsibility of counter-population. For these reasons, I urge you to vote in favour of the bill. I am also in favour of the articles in principle. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u425	Thank you, Mrs. Gennay. I do not know if you have understood it, we are discussing and voting on the simple analogue, but we are a one-party parliament, from the Bureau and the government to the Members of Parliament. [[Laughers in the Chamber From the Wing of SYRIZA]] Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-20-S1-commons.u426	The meeting for today, Thursday, July 21, 2016 at 9.30', on the subject of the House's work: only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: "Consolidation of matters of responsibility of the Ministry of National Defence".
