ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS The ninth question, under number 938/31-5-2016, will be discussed in the nineteenth cycle of the Member of the Greek Communist Party, Emmanuel Synthraki, with the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the situation in the Second Chance Schools. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the situation in the Second Chance Schools is leniently unacceptable and is even afflicting teachers and trainees. Most of them fail. There are shortages of educational staff, delays in signing contracts and payments of wages, unpaid movements of trainees, lack of graphics, heating oil, school cleaning, no toilet paper and much more, I do not need to list them all. In fact, they are second-class schools and not second-rate schools. This year especially produced evil. You have tried to block staff shortages by posting permanently - at a time when there are thousands of educational gaps on both levels of education - but also with day-to-day work contracts hired seven months after the TBRs were theoretically launched. How, then, will the specialities of the stamps and the matter be covered, when the replacements of the lost hours began shortly before Easter with pressurization of the material and the time of completion of the stamps? Instead of appointing teachers with a stable employment relationship to cover all needs, you have tried with patches, moves, distractions, orientals, with voluntary work, to cover gaps and needs. Your own responsibility, that is, your government, is not complete, nor have they been paid. They work without being paid, without having ensured minimum working rights. And we must at some point end this unacceptable regime. Junior authorities came the cards to be completed by the matures. Then they will go to INEDIABIM to return after at least a month the contracts for signature. And I don't know after how many months they're going to be paid, signals will be in, pre-service, etc. And that's not all that's done. You shall not recognise all hours at the BIPs as a service for their classification in the single list of alternates except in eight of the twenty hours as a ceiling. Minister, on 31 March you issued a ministerial decision whereby the trainees in eight PPCs and nineteen annexes pandemics, which had not been taught five secretaries and, above all, have extended their students for a six-month period. In the rest of the LAG, of course, which had not been taught four secretaries afterward, there was provision for the replacement of the material with an increase in working hours, a reduction in Easter holidays, an extension of teaching on Saturdays, etc. From the responses of teachers and trainees and also from the response to a question from the JRC made in April 2016 on the same subject, you issued a new ministerial decision on 17 May - which, of course, is that we are looking and cannot find it anywhere - which absolves the previous one, saying that the trainees in six R & D and fourteen annexes will finally complete in the current school year and will get a discharge. You need to give a clear answer about what will eventually happen. Because even with the second ministerial decision, you have created a anxiety for the trainees themselves and also for the trainers whether they will eventually complete within the time frames laid down. As a result, Minister, we ask you in particular: What measures will you take to ensure that all the trainees are given the certificate and their annexes, with the exception of the scheduled dates without further prolongation, and to pay the travel expenses of the trainees? What measures will you take, in order to sign the contract of employment of the Deputy and Ordinary Teachers of the PES, to pay their prizes and badges, to appoint teachers from the beginning of the year and to immediately stop unpaid work and, finally, to secure all their working rights with a fixed employment relationship and, of course, to recognise all the hours in their ranking in the single list of alternates? Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u3	Mr Minister, you have the floor for the relative tolerance too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, I would like you to take the view that the government's interest in secondary schools and the social offer they make. It is an institution that offers a unique way out to thousands of people who wish to return to the learning process, to gain basic skills and to gain more access to the labour market. More importantly, it is the offer of the Second Chance Schools that has to do with the operation of such schools in the country's penitentiary. Despite the great educational and social work produced in the TBRs, in the secondary schools, there are indeed problems which are afflicting both teachers who work there and those who are studying. By a decision I adopted last month, on 17 May 2016, the six-month extension of the first and second courses of study of the PBIs is abolished and the teaching year is now completed in June 2016, with few cases - and that is the exception - which operate in detention stores, for which the teaching year is extended for a six-month period at the request of the trainees. In order to move trainees - you have put a question in this regard - there is a provision for coverage of costs in the DSO programme implemented by the Youth and Lifelong Learning Foundation, INEDIBIM. Following the entry into force of the well-trained teachers they teach at the Second Opportunities Schools in the insurance of the IKA - EDF, the competent INEDIDAM departments have proceeded with the necessary steps to properly measure the information system for the management and monitoring of the natural and economic object on the basis of the new insurance requirements, IKA etc. The information system of the Second Occupational Schools is already in operation. With regard to the work contracts of the hourly teachers who provide their services to the GPAs, I inform you that the procurement procedure is complete. An information system will export the contract and the required supporting documents and then approve the relevant appropriations from the special management agency. I left one last point which you raise in your question, the question of volunteering. In fact, you are talking about volunteering for unpaid work. Look, there is the 2014 ministerial decision setting out the conditions of volunteering, that is to say, how they can offer teaching work to volunteer teachers who have become aware of the philosophy of the TSE programme. Voluntary trainers shall not replace the teaching work of the responsible trainee but shall mainly be used to enrich the TBS training programme for the benefit of trainees, as is the case in the case of trainers of other specialists, artists and scientists. In the event of delays in the recruitment of the hourly wages and once volunteers of teachers are exploited, volunteers shall stop offering their services for the teaching of the cognitive item as soon as the hourly wages are taken over. Therefore, the assignment of hours of teaching is not at the expense of the hourly wages. On the other hand, the use of volunteer teachers is made solely for the benefit of trainees, so as not to lose, because of delays, the second opportunity offered to them by the BIPs. Mr Colleagues, I am addressing a left-wing MEP, the JRC, is a long tradition of the Left in social offering and volunteering. I believe that you, too, will have no objection today to the difficulties that we are experiencing as a society, to the difficulties facing many children from people's backgrounds, to exploit this long tradition of social supply and volunteering and to convince us by doing so that solidarity is not an empty word but a tangible political force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u6	Minister, we all know very well that at the Secondary Schools of Occupation there are people over the age of eighteen who are mostly from the working class, poorly populace, who have been inequality in class, personal family difficulties and their anti-government policies over the years have forced them to leave school too early. Two issues arise. One is the question of volunteering, which you have also raised. I was the one who wanted to raise it in my dentistry. Of course, the JRC has a long tradition of volunteering, but it is inextricably linked to social and political struggles and to the pleading struggles, which contribute to conditions where a world really calls for support and assistance, but which is accompanied by action within the social struggles. I think there are many examples that show that communists, people from the class trade union movement, if you wish, through such voluntary offers, with lessons in primary, secondary and so on. We are talking, however, about a state structure. We're talking about a state school. At the same time, therefore, with this unacceptable situation in the secondary schools, let me say that you did not say anything new. What was in existence with previous governments, you do exactly the same thing, you duplicate with what the previous ones have done, nothing more or nothing less. But promote even more, I would say, the logic of voluntary work through the structures of the EBRD and, in particular, the skills that are missing, where the hours of volunteering are exceeded, with teaching and other objects other than their specialty, or with volunteer teachers who have retired or worked in other services. This results in the standing needs of educational staff being covered by volunteers with the approval of the General Secretariat, thus opening the way - because this opens the way - for unpaid and uninsured work within schools, under the pretext of the social offer, so-called 'employment'. That is to say, the working rights of teachers are actually being used as a siege ram in order to offer their work unpaid in return for assurances of enrichment of their curriculum. So there is an issue of what measures you will take to stop this scheme of volunteering, which legalises unpaid work. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Secondly, it is the issue of funding for the new programming period 2014-2020. As you know, the EIPs are financed by the European Social Fund and the Public Investment Programme. In response to the question we submitted in April, which I mentioned, you gave us a table of the financial data for the 2007-2013 programming period. For the CIPs about EUR 26 million was the budget and with a residual credit balance for 2016 about 800,000 euros. You also gave us a second table for the new programming period 2014-2020 with a budget of 3,600,000 with zero funding for 2016. Minister, you need to give us more explanations of these economic elements, because the way you present it is in the air for 2016 and much more for the coming years. And we know that funding through the ESRB is very insecure and that their assurance of course requires a very long process. So, if we take cash, we will see that there is a vertical drop in funding for the Second Opportunity Schools and we ask you whether the absorption of money for 2016 has been ensured, what amount from the European Social Fund and what amount from the Public Investment Programme. Of course, we are asking you what action you have taken for the new school year in order to avoid delays that we have experienced this year and all the previous years. From that point on, Mr President, I think that the Second-Second Opportunity Schools towards the European Union are, unfortunately, working in the logic of lifelong education and training, which is, in fact, a modern, functional illiteracy, 'I learn to learn' in order to form people who are vulnerable and consumable in the big chapter with the main aim of its profitability and nothing more. From there, the workers, all young...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u7	Finish it, Mr. Synergy. We have said a timely question, not a timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u8	... they must claim a school, the real modern school, to have education, rights and life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u9	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u10	Thank you. Mr Colleague, we will do everything possible and will prove in September - October that the LAGs will be opened up and the problems of the past will not be repeated, at least to the extent that we know. You have referred to a number of issues, which are essentially differentiate between social philosophy and between us from what is seen in the field of the left. The subject of volunteering. They are not substituted by their volunteer teachers. It is not a volunteer retired or not forced to attend the Second-Everything Schools. He chooses it on his own as an element of social offer. I say again: he's not compelled. It chooses it as part of a social offer and a social offer is not the fight, much more the password in the various mobilisations. Socio-social provision is also this practical act of solidarity. To be able to provide social care or atypical education, such as the Second Chance Schools, specific help to people in need. So I do not accept the reproach that people who want and are not forced to help adults in Second-Second School eat someone else's work. They don't eat anyone's work, which is why I'm saying when the day-to-day people come, it's clear that these people are limited, instead they give a tangible picture of what social solidarity means from the whole of society and not from the state to those people who are studying in the Second-Everything Schools. The second issue. I do not agree with you that Secondary Schools of Occupation are in the framework of formal education. It's not formal education, it's informal education. You're talking through life. What's the harm of life? It's not exactly lifelong, but what's the harm of lifelong education? They are obviously Second Chance Schools for Ages you mentioned, for social categories from populaces you mentioned and for social categories of prisoner, for example. Obviously we need a special lesson, a special programme for these cases of people. It's not, I repeat, formal education. And "I learn to learn" is that also cold? Is there a dead guy about this thing? "I learn to learn" is a practice today in teaching around the world. They learn not only to learn, because there is a matter of skills and theme of access to the labour market, they learn so they can do some work after, when they get out of prison or when they are forced from life to go ahead with some options. In conclusion, I would like to assure you again that the Second-Second Opportunity Schools will function as provided for in the institutional framework and will work as quickly and better as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u11	You didn't tell us about funding.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u12	It is true what we have mentioned exhaustively with communications.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u13	Good. We move on to the debate of the third under number 9707-6-2016 topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the maintenance of jobs with all the rights of workers, in poultry facilities by the new employer "NITSIANO". The Minister will answer Mr. Katrugalos. Mr Katsotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we have already discussed the workers in the poultry farms in the Chalkida region - particularly in the operations of Mr Zura - and the employers who are changing. Three employers have now been changed to these facilities and one is loading even more burdens on workers or rather removing even more rights than the previous one. So we have had this effort of Mr Nitsiaku's new employer, who has tried to use the slaughterhouses in Tanagra without the old workers, who are well-known - who are workers of the Zura, are unpaid, have been fighting for many months to keep their jobs, to be able to pay and, of course, to work with hygiene and safety measures so as to ensure their own health. It is well known that Mr Nitsiakos tried to use the slaughterhouse without these workers. There has been an overall effort by the workers, but that has stopped. However, Mr. Nitsiakos today spreads that he doesn't open the poultry because he says he doesn't leave him with the PAM. This spreads to the Ioannina region, thus trying to slander the struggles and ensure the operation of poultry, without rights, without the obligation to succeed the workers who were in this area and, of course, seeking to implement all this arsenal in his hands, without collective agreements, with individual contracts of employment, in terms of work jungle. So what we are asking you - do you have the question in person - is: What measures will you take to ensure jobs, collective agreements for workers, the payment of workers' health and safety measures for workers? That is what we would like your answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u15	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleague, as you will know, I have repeatedly said that I consider the questions of the Communist Party of Greece to be particularly positive in dealing with phenomena in which workers' rights are being circumvented or the working conditions of the jungle prevail. However, we have often said about the limits of responsibilities, both within the Labour Inspectorate and in general the Ministry of Labour in a market economy system. Here is an even more complex case that shows the limits of the interventions of the Ministry of Labour, precisely because it is very complicated because the legal basis of the case in view of the claims made by NITSIAKOS S.A. is not the successor of the previous companies, but simply submerged the property in which the poultry farm is located. In other words, the company's claims in the document I will be tabling to you in the Minutes are that the birds are wholly owned by the first employer to whom you referred, to the brothers of Levadi, then leased this property to "ALCOT", in the interests of the Zura group and therefore there was a final subsidization by that company to NITSIAKOS. [[At this point, the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr Georgios Katrugalos presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Therefore, according to the legal claims of that company, the present operation of the company has nothing to do with the previous ones. This is legally crucial, because if there is a succession of businesses, there is indeed an obligation on the employer to maintain existing employment relationships. If there is no such obligation, however. So while the Labour Inspectorate, as you rightly say, has made repeated efforts before days - I shall refer to my second speech, because the time has now run out - in fact it does not have competence for the simple reason that she cannot, not having jurisdiction, judge whether or not this basic claim by NITSIAKOS is actually in force.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u17	Here, Mr Katsotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u18	Minister, I have the APRC documents for the checks it has carried out and I know Mr Nitsiaku's claim that he has no obligation, because he has rented these infrastructures from the previous employer. It is well known that these are the tricks that business groups make in consultation with each other, so that they also get rid of their obligations towards the public, towards the IKA and also to the workers. It's tricks that happen and you know them very well. You know that these procedures have been exempted from obligations towards the public, the IKA and the workers. And in any case, the legislative framework, Minister, is the form of you, and it seems that even with fast track procedures you can change laws or dignify laws. So here you are very responsible. If the legislative framework needs to be changed, you can change it and nobody can stop you. In other words, it is up to the government to guarantee workers. In any case, there are too many companies who are now trying to create new data. It seems that in the light of the new working law, we have the "ATHENS LEDRA", the "ELECTRONIC", the "PURSO" and a number of other businesses, even the Circular of the Parliament, Minister, who are working endless hours or competition and are trying to get them to sign papers, so that the employer can ensure that he doesn't pay any more and so on. So, on this, you're not wheelchairs, Minister. You are a government and you have a responsibility towards this world. You cannot keep coming and say that the legislative framework and your limits are those. In other words, the employer's limits are endless. He can do whatever he wants, whenever he wants to fly the world on the road, and you can watch evolution and legislate on this development. Because that is what you are doing and that is what you will come to do with the working law, to legislate this working jungle, which the employer creates so that he can win even more. So we cannot say here that Nichiakos has no legal responsibility. What did he rent? Who rented it from? From a company employing employees either the ‘ALCOT’ or the ‘BIOOT’. Both companies employed the workers. And now, what did Nichiac take? The infrastructure alone without the workers? What happened to the birdhouse? Did he become a hotel and he doesn't have to pass on the workers? What does he want to do? Getting workers without any right. In any case, you also brought an amendment to the shareholders' responsibility here and took it back. Workers could be able to obtain certain rights and obligations. But you took it back, after demanding the industrialists. So this is your policy, Minister, and on it you are judged by all the workers who are currently living this working jungle.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Catrugale, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u20	Mr Colleague, as far as their responsibilities are concerned, both the Labour Inspectorate and, more generally, the Ministry of Labour has tried to resolve this case. Not only have they become the tripartite, which you mentioned in your position, but also in the previous company, a lawsuit has indeed been filed, because specific violations of labour law have been found. I will report to you that on May 27, 2016, the Department of Safety and Health at Work Fhotida - Fokfish checks were carried out at the "BIOCOT". In the report, there were breaches of labour legislation, shortcomings in the health monitoring of workers, inappropriate hygiene facilities. A corresponding check was carried out in the poultry undertaking ZOURAS FAMILY in Oinofita and the procedures provided for against those companies were initiated. Checks were carried out to clarify whether there was a responsibility of the new employer for not paying a contract. Here the checks were carried out on 29-3-2016 and there does not seem to have been any infringement of the legislation in this respect from the report in question, which I see here. Epirus and Macedonia's Labour Relations Directorate has informed us with its recent document since 10 June that wages have been paid for this operation. As far as those issues within the scope of the Ministry of Labour are concerned, the checks were carried out and the relevant measures were taken. As far as the general issue of industrial relations is concerned, you are right again. The five years before power was taken over by us was indeed a general period of deregulation of labour relations. The sectoral collective agreements concerning, for example, the poultry farms to which you refer have indeed ceased to be in force. Only nine sectoral contracts have survived, too, on very incomplete terms. It is right there that we try to negotiate for work in September, to return Greece to the European social model, to restore a social dialogue environment, collective bargaining, which results in collective agreements. So this is our commitment to the world of work. And against this commitment we will be judged when the time comes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u21	Thank you to the two Ministers for making us the honor of being present. I would like to inform the Members who are in the Chamber that it was today that fourteen topical questions should be discussed. Two were discussed. The Twelve have not been discussed, one of them for reasons of lack of competence. This is the fourth under No 963/7-2016 topical question by MP Larissa of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister of Health, concerning the non-implementation of the "Carta Disabled Disability" programme despite its establishment by the State, which is not for the Minister of Health, but for Mr Katrugalos. Another one, which I will mention below, was not discussed because the Minister is missing in Thessaloniki. Not all others have been discussed on the grounds of this: the workingload of the ministers. Because I have been disappointed by my earthly appeals, I am thinking of putting a spectacular pie on St. Fanourios, perhaps Saint will also help and show up in Parliament at the time of parliamentary scrutiny! I have to report the questions that have not been discussed, because otherwise they won't go next time. The reasons I am not telling you, I mentioned them to you. It is as follows: The first one under number 956/7-6-2016, first-cycle question, by MP Heraklion of New Democracy, Eleftherios Aygeakis to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the new delay in the construction of the new airport in Kastelli Crete. The second under number 944/3-6-2016 topical question by Attica of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR, Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Health, concerning patients who operate at their own expense at the University General Hospital of Thessaloniki AHEPA. The third, with number 966/7-6-2016, a topical question by MP 2, Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Health, on the state of Nice. The sixth question under number 935/31-5-2016 is a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Health concerning the shortcomings and problems of the fleet of the EKA. The tenth under number 825/25-4-2016 topical question, in the second cycle, of Parliament's 2nd Piraeus Union of Centres Mr.Theodoras Megalo-Economist to the Minister of Health, concerning the residual functioning of the Anticancer Hospital of Metataxas. The first under number 957-7-6-2016 topical question, MP Chios of the New Democracy Mr. Panayiotis (Noti) Mitaraki to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on the protection of Feta in the European Union Trade Agreements. According to the Parliamentary Service, Mr. Stathakis is located in Thessaloniki. That's why he's not here. So he's justified. The fourth under number 925/30-5-2016, a topical question by the MP Heraklion of New Democracy, Eleftherios Aygeakis to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on the deterioration of the manufacturing sector in our country. The second one, with number 961/7-2016, is a topical question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Sakis Vardalis to the Finance and National Defence Ministers on the Greek Vehicle Industry (ELVO S.A.).). The eighth Question No 907/25-5-2016, by the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the progress of the projects to make use of the former airport of Greece. The seventh question under number 926/30-5-2016 of the second cycle, of the New Democracy MP Georgios Stylios Stylios, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning the payment of the minimum amount of linked aid to the citrus producers. The fifth under number 916/27-5-2016 topical question by the Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on "the targeting of Greek citizens from a well-known para-state anti-democratic website". The Deputy Minister, Mr Toskas, who is also not present on account of a workload, had to answer. We also have two permits for absence abroad. They're letters to the President of Parliament. The Member, Mr Koukodemos, seeks a leave from 2 July to 7 July 2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u22	The House therefore approved the requested permission. [[CHANGES BACK FOR CHANGING MATTER]] We also have a correction of the dates of requested permission from Mr Theocharis. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u23	The House therefore approved the requested permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY Question No 26/20/18-4-2016 by the Members of the New Democracy Apostolos Vesiropoulos, Christos Stakouris, Christos Dimas, Theodoras Bakoyannis, Dimitrios Stamatis, Savvas Anastasiades, Charalambous Athanasios, Ioannis Vroutsis, Theodoros Karaglou, Miltiad Varviotos, Athanasios Boura, Emmanou (Man) Konsolas, Georgios Vlachos, Ioannis Andrianou, George Koumoutsakou, George Georgios Panagiotopoulos, Theodorou Kyriazides, Konstantinou, Sophia Vultesi, Ioannis Kefkoulou, Kyriou - Kyrikonou, Kyrikounis Vasiliou, Georgiou Vasssiliou, Georgiou Vasssiliou Karamanlis, Andreas Katsaniotis, Simeon (Simou) Kedicoglou, Athanasios Kavada, Akaterini Papakostas - Ironopoulou, Gerasimos Giakoumatis, Olgas Kefaliannis, Konstantinos Vlassis, Konstantinos Katsafadou, Vasilios Economou, Anastasios (Tasos) Publicity to the Minister of Finance, on the issues of the tax administration and the effectiveness of tax controls and mechanisms to limit tax evasion. The government will respond to this question, Mr Alexiadis, on behalf of the government. Because I'm saying bad things, I'm gonna say good things, not because they're here today, but because they're almost always here. As Parliamentary Representatives of the Parties, Mr.Stavouras from New Democracy, Mr. Gerasios Balaouras from SYRIZA, Mr.Ioannis Sachinides from the Golden Dawn, Mr. Andreas Loverdes from the Democratic Co-operation of PASOK - DIMAR, Mr. Athanasios Bardalis from the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. George Mavrotas from Potami, Mr. Dimitris Kammenos from the ANELs and Mr. Marios Georgiadis from the Central Association. The first honourable Member to speak, Mr Apostle Vésiropoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we must acknowledge to Mr Alexiadis that he is perhaps the only minister who respects parliamentary control procedures and comes to Parliament to answer Members' topical questions, because some of his colleagues do not show any fundamental respect for Parliament either. Minister, we have tabled this timely question since 18 April. It is being discussed today, two months later. I wonder: Is it not a matter of immediate priority that the problems of tax administration and tax controls should be put forward and debated, even when the uncertainties in tax administration and the impossibility of the government to concede tax evasion lead to a reduction in tax revenue, which is then treated with the easy solution for you, the imposition of new taxes, taxes without end and without logic? We, in today's debate on the topical question, come with suggestions and a provision of understanding, with substantiated positions and arguments. You must, Minister, give answers today to current questions and not use selectively some elements, oriented and throwing the ball into the platform. The economic indicators, Minister, not only do not justify optimism, but they reflect the effects of the recession and the reduction in tax revenues. Can you, Minister, be optimistic and speak of the success of government policy, when citizens' overdue public debts have increased and now reached 50% of GDP, when there is a reduction in tax revenue in 2015 compared with 2014 and there is more than 3 billion euros less than the target set in the budget? And all of this, while you had imposed additional taxes of more than EUR 1 billion for 2015, when you moved on to increasing VAT rates, the rates of income tax for legal persons, the rates of the special solidarity levy, the premium tax, when you abolished the exemptions from the HPAI, when you increased the advance payment of income tax to legal persons, free traders and farmers. Even in the first quarter of 2016, according to state budget figures, tax revenues are reduced in the following categories: Income tax of legal persons by EUR 127 million or 6% on property by EUR 101 million or 10%, oil VAT by EUR 121 million or 20.4%, VAT on tobacco products by EUR 10 million or 4.8%, VAT on other activities by EUR 17 million or 0.4%, excise on energy products by EUR 62 million or 4.5%, other excise duties by EUR 45 million or EUR 5.4%, other excise duties by EUR 72 million or EUR 42.9%, other indirect taxes by EUR 35 million or EUR 23.9%. Now, with the new taxes you have imposed, you will see in the autumn that the time has come again, because you have not realised that the burden-sharing capacity of the citizens has been exhausted. Then what are you gonna do? Obviously, you will only repeat what you know: new measures and new taxes. Many things would have been different, however, if you had dealt seriously with the issues of tax administration and tax controls, if you had a plan to avoid tax evasion. Prove that you neither have. Go ahead, Minister, to dismantle the ILO. But have you wondered what will happen to the thirty - six thousand uncontrolled cases and, in particular, to the two and a half thousand cases, for which there were public prosecutor orders? Who will these cases be controlled by? Do you not know that thousands of them were deleted at the end of 2015 and were granted a new extension for the end of 2016? That's revenue, Minister. Obviously, you have the luxury of dismissing them and replacing them with new measures and taxes. It had become a serious job in the ILO for these cases. The former Special Secretary of the ILO, Mr Danis, sent you a letter. Extracts of this letter saw the light of publicity. I submit to the minutes of the relevant publication. [[At this point, Member, Mr Apostolos Veyropoulos, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What does Mr. Danes say? It tells you very simple and documentary that he's been doing months of auditing in these cases. He was about to send the taxmen to the fund, and you're throwing all this in the trash and forcing people to pay for the broken ones. Do you know what amounts it charged on a monthly basis the IORP from the checks? Give the 2012, 2013 and 2014 data. How will you replace this revenue? At the moment, you have succeeded, Minister, in not having neither ILO nor the IMO, which was supposed to replace the IMO in the controls. Apart from Athens and Thessaloniki to a certain extent, in other cities in Greece there is no presence of these control mechanisms. The summer season has already begun, in the other cities of Greece and in the islands what is happening? Obviously you will find out what happens when VAT declarations are submitted. That is the reality, Minister. You have not just dismantled the ILO, you have inactivated hundreds of high-skilled staff and experience in the field of controls, and you are turning thousands of cases aside, depriving them of public revenue. Your Government with Law No.4337/2015 abolished the imposition of separate fines for non-issuing tax. It's just as you hear it, ladies and gentlemen. For some time now the only fines imposed on taxable persons have been 50% of VAT on unissued tax data. To those who are not liable for VAT, i.e. medical practitioners, nurseries and others, no fine is imposed. This means, in practical terms, that preventive checks no longer make sense. Since the autonomous imposition of fines has been abolished during the audit, professionals know that fines are manageable or negligible, so they choose to risk safe, i.e. to tax. To streamline fines, but not to cross the other end and impose no fines or impose 30 cents of 1 and 2 euros. Moreover, if the conditions for the ex-accounting determination of the results during the tax audit have been reduced and the fines for not issuing proof have not been taken into account, the tax consequences are minimal. So you're going to hit the tax evasion, Minister? Do you want a first example, linked to all of this, but also to the increase in taxes? See Mykonos, Minister. You abolished the reduced rate of VAT, increasing by 30% the rates. Did you increase VAT on focus and accommodation and what was the result? In the first quarter of 2016, 62% below the VAT revenue. I would not like to put you in an even more difficult position, Minister, by quoting what your former comrades, Mr Varoufakis and Mrs Valavani have said about the dismantling of the control mechanisms. Obviously you consider that your time has been counting since September 20, 2015. Wrong, Minister. You've been running for seventeen months now, and the bill's too heavy. Let's go to the lists thing, too. You yourself, Mr Alexiadis, sincerely admitted during the debate on the government's programming statements last October that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government made the fewer checks in 2015 on the Lagard list. In 2013, the audit started in two hundred and fifty eight cases, in 2014 in a hundred forty-three cases and in 2015 with data up to the beginning of November, it started testing in eighty cases only. Don't tell us about the amounts established in 2015, Minister. You can say that, but not to me that I know the subject. I know and you also know very well that the amounts established in 2015 and for which you are proud are the product of the controls and the work done in the past two years. Instead of using the Lagard list and the other lists to do tax controls, you use them to serve pleasant microparticipatory purposes and for impression purposes. Of course, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government must stop misleading citizens, because it was the New Democracy that sent to justice, but also to the Financial Prosecutors, the Lagard List and the other lists. When the country needs revenue, when we are at the edge of the razor, these practices are children's diseases and you must put them on the margin. I come to the issue of fuel smuggling. It is estimated that, according to very modest estimates, a loss of revenue of 300 million a year from the smuggling of fuel is estimated. We installed the input-out system in 98% of stations. What were you doing from there, Minister? Did you only issue a joint ministerial decision on the floating media in December 2015, and do you think that this is enough to be taken? I'll tell you what you should do. You should go ahead and finish the speeches of the previous government which were part of the issue of combating fuel smuggling, with the installation of the input-output system throughout the production and handling chain and not just in the means of waterways, but also with the GPS facility and a weight-change recorder in tankers. Are checks and cross-checks carried out through the input-out system by the General Secretariat of Information Systems? Not at this point, of course, you must bear your burden because, if there are no controls and cross-checks, the system of input-outs of fuel remains ineffective. After the dismantling of the ILO, what service is currently involved in combating trafficking in fuel and tobacco products, Minister? The government, of course, has a solution for this too. It's an increase in the excise tax on oil and petrol. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Two more minutes, Mr President. Mr Mardas had electionally said that your Government would collect EUR 2 billion from the fight against the smuggling of fuel and EUR 1 billion from the smuggling of tobacco products. Mr Nikoloudis spoke of EUR 2.5 billion that is ready to be collected from tax evasion cases. In other words, almost EUR 5.5 billion, as much as the tax and collective measures you have taken to close the evaluation. These are the paper exercises, Mr Alexiadis, and the airplanes. A little mention of the issue of smuggling tobacco products. The new taxes you have imposed will lead to a rise in the phenomenon, and unfortunately not only do you not understand it, but you are not prepared as well. You haven't brought this bill to the House for so long. You finally gave it to the consultation a few hours ago. You have not created an effective mechanism to curb smuggling of tobacco products, to control and monitor all production lines, but also with new best labelling practices. There are, however, other issues to which I shall refer in my dentistry, as well as the issue of plastic money and the introduction of incentives to extend its use. You also know, Minister, that on this matter I have tabled very specific proposals to you. As an epilepsy to my prototype, keep all of us committed to supporting all measures aimed at combating and limiting tax evasion, because we are subjected to a completely different logic from what SYRIZA had when he was in opposition. You weren't in the House at the time, Minister. The SYRIZA ‘not all’ was then dominated, even in cases where tax compliance and tax evasion measures were taken. It was dominating the "I don't pay" and much more that the country paid for very expensive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u26	Thank you. The second honourable Member has the floor, Mr Christos Dimas. Do you want the time of your dentistry, Mr. Dimas?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u27	No, just protology. Thank you, Mr President. The government's first priority should have been to strengthen and modernise the tax administration and to strengthen the efficiency of the tax-support mechanism of the State, to limit tax evasion and tax evasion. But this, provenly, is not on your priorities. On the contrary, you have not taken any measures to substantially strengthen the tax administration. I would remind you that for days of the New Democracy Government we have had a reduction in taxes, but an increase in tax revenue. How is that possible? Very simply, because we have achieved the growth of the economy and improved the tax-spring mechanisms. You, however, have charged taxes exceeding EUR 5 billion. Therefore, you have reduced the available income of all Greeks without exception, much more of the patients. More specifically, you increased VAT twice to 24%, the Legal Income Tax and the Rates. You have permanentised the Solidarity Contribution, the rates of insurance premiums, the taxation of rents, the advances to income tax on farmers, the cost of raw materials in agricultural production, insurance contributions, the ENPHI on land, plots and businesses, the tax on investment companies, cigarette tax, the Special Consumption Tax on beer, the Special Tax on wine, the Tax on coffee, the Tax on petrol, the Tax on heating oil, the tax on cars and lorries. You imposed a special charge on fixed telephony bills, a special fee on pay-TV bills, hotel accommodation tax and rented rooms, tax on electronic cigarettes. At the same time, you reduced the tax, abolished the one-off deductions of income tax, exemptions of payment of HNVIA, refunds of the Special Petroleum Consumption Tax for rural use, special arrangements for reduced VAT on the islands, special arrangements for excise duties on alcoholic beverages and dividends. What was the result? Unfortunately, in your attempt to close down like - such as evaluation, you taxed everything, so that you drive the country deeper into recession and dissolve the daily life of the citizen who now realizes that he should only work to pay taxes on the state. Unfortunately, in fact, the recession goes beyond forecasts for 2016, with the figures not to calculate the damage already done by the tax-suppressive measures that the government has been through recently. I recall studies showing the UBS-0.9% recession for 2016, by City Group-0.2%, the OECD-0.3%. More specifically, between the beginning of the year and 31 May, a total of fifteen thousand four hundred and thirty-five businesses in all the legal forms, which means that the increase compared to last year is 45.87%. If one takes into account how many companies are currently delaying their payments and how many thousands of workers do not receive their wages in good time, because you have thrown companies off the air with the irreparable taxation. At this point I would like to remind you that by 2014 more businesses were opened up than they closed down. In 2015 was the first year in which more businesses were closed than they opened. These are elements of the General Register. At the same time, the overdue debts of citizens and businesses to the public have been discharged. Only on your own days, on your own governments, have increased by EUR 17 billion. This, in very simple terms, means that the Greeks' portability has been exhausted. But the state is asking citizens and businesses for hard taxes, but it does not see to it that it is in line with its obligations. In particular, public debt to private individuals has increased. It is about EUR 1.1 billion pending tax reimbursements and EUR 5.5 billion overdue public debts to private and private enterprises. All this is money missing from the real economy. At this point, however, it is important to recall some things. The New Democracy in 2012 in much more difficult circumstances received an economy with 7% recession and 10% deficit. Within two years he has managed not only to achieve a primary surplus, but to reduce dues by 70%, to give social dividends and to reduce taxes. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. I would remind you of -30% for the Extraordinary Solidarity Contribution, 10 points for VAT in the focus from 23% to 13%, -30 for the Petroleum Special Tax, but while maintaining the extended criteria for granting, 5% for insurance contributions, the abolition of the EMCDDA - even the ENPI that came was 30% reduced - and, of course, the granting of a social dividend of EUR 450 million. In conclusion, I would like to say that for us it is self-evident and absolutely essential that you have strong and efficient tax administration so that you can obtain lower rates of taxation and less taxes. Otherwise, growth will not be achieved. But even if it is done, it will be anemic. More substantial use should be made of new technologies, especially the Internet in tax administration. There is also a need for the mandatory spread of electronic transactions, especially with the State. Additional incentives should also be given for the more extensive but more rational use of plastic cards. But in order to be able to do this, there is a need for further strengthening of the competent services by people who also have the possibility of effectively running and implementing them in practice. But you have chosen more and more taxes, without doing something to improve the efficiency of the tax administration. Our differences are not only in ideology, they are in practice and in effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u28	The third colleague, Mr Dimitrios Stamatis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u29	Minister, throughout your course as opposition to the country you had made the issue of lists flagged - a matter of great electoral value for you - and in two directions. One direction was that there was, through the lists, coverage of corruption. The second direction was that the Greek public lost too much money, which the Greek people paid for. We won't argue. But now you have to tell us what you did with those lists. And first of all, we need to clarify a matter. Because the Prime Minister is repeatedly coming to the Chamber and says 'the lists that we brought them to justice'. So I'm gonna have to read the lists. Lagard list. The Lagard list, then Prime Minister Antonis Samaras handed it over as soon as he received it. And because I was an eyewitness of the event, he didn't even hold it in his hands. No, she didn't open it, she didn't even last five minutes. He sent it to the competent prosecution authorities at the time on 2-10-2012. She herself, the official Lagard list, as came from the French Treasury to Mr. Stournara, immediately filed there. So we gave the lists and did not ask to see who they are in or indicate an exception. Second, a list of foreign emblems. This was forwarded to the prosecutors on 5-9-2012. It includes fifty-four thousand two hundred forty-six people with deposits over 100,000 euros. And we handed it over. Luxembourg List. He has been in the hands of the financial prosecutors since the beginning of September 2012. It contains thirty-eight files. There are also to the financial prosecutors from December 2013, sixty-five CDs with all the material they requested and took from the banks the IMO and it concerns one million and sixty-four thousand LNG to be controlled. The Liechtenstein list and foreign real estate existed before Mr. Samara's government. So why is this inaccuracy, the repeated inaccuracy of Prime Minister "we've brought" in this House? No, you didn't. We brought them in and didn't ask for an exception for anyone at all. The question, however, is only to you. We ordered in 2013 and started tests on two hundred and fifty eight assumptions from the Lagard list.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u30	Of the two thousand sixty-two?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u31	Of the two thousand sixty-two. In 2014, a hundred forty - three commandments were given, of which ninety - five were completed. You, the persecutors, who took advantage of the Lagard list in 2015, gave orders to check for eighty cases and checked and completed thirty-eight. Do not mention - and Mr Vesyropoulos told you a moment ago - and don't tell us what was collected in 2015, because that - just to say it - is the trouble of the work that took place in 2013 and 2014. You guys tell us why the Lagard checks stopped? I have a second question. All colleagues here will remember that the former Minister of State, Mr Nikoloudis, - twice in the House and so many others in the media - had said that he has a EUR 2.5 billion 'pay' for the government and will offer it to Mr Tsipras in the summer of 2015. Is it or isn't it? He said, of course, about tobacco and oil, but I am staying in the EUR 2.5 billion that had to do with tax evasion, EUR 7 billion and even said that he is ready for people and the sums. And all of a sudden there are elections, and Mr Nikoloudis does not participate in the Ministerial Council, the one who would present the 2,5 billion to the Greek State. I ask you now: did not you ask him: 'Counselor, where are these lists of 2.5 billion, why should they be lost?' Or - logically - if you did not ask him, was that the reason why Mr Nikoloudis was removed from this post and what did you want to hide then? The combination of the two events, that is, Mr Nicoludi's repeated statement that he had the 2.5 billion, unless he was also an etherist, unless he also lived in the world of delusion like the Prime Minister - and his removal, gives rise to a huge political question: Or man was inappropriate and used by the then government of SYRIZA - ANEL or was telling the truth, which is proved to be the truth of the delay, by the brake on the Lagard list. Here you must give us convincing answers. You asked, Mr. Minister, Mr. Nicoludis, where are those 2.5 billion to please all of us? And in any case you have an obligation to at least inform the Prime Minister that the lists that I mentioned before, we handed them over, our government handed them over on the morning just got them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u32	Good. The fourth question, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis, has the floor. Do you want your dentistry, Mr. Brutsi?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u33	We'll see. Ladies and gentlemen, it has not yet dried up the ink from the latest drafts of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government which we have recently voted on, bills with very heavy, unfair and painful measures. I would remind you, Minister, that the amount of measures in total, fiscal and insurance is EUR 9 billion, without taking into account the famous cut-off of EUR 2% of GDP or EUR 3.6 billion, which, if we add to this amendment which is now calling for a net impact, is EUR 5 billion. On this basis there is a question that has been raised before and I will be emphatically repeating it because it is crucial. In this House, it is recorded in the conscience of all the groups - I believe in the SYRIZA Members, to all the Members - but above all in the memory and consciousness of the Greek people that Mr Nicholoudi's statements from this step in the government's Programmatic Declarations stated emphatically, unequivocally, in the most convincing way - to all the wings of the Parliament and, above all, to the Greek people - that the government is immediately bringing revenues of EUR 2.5 billion from tax evasion, which are in the drawers of the Ministry and apart from them 1 billion from tobacco and 2 billion from smuggling, i.e. EUR 5.5 billion, the measures of the last bill. Rightly, then, a question arises. Does the government have a convincing response to this, Minister? Who falsified the reality? Mr. Nikoloudis consciously or unconsciously? Was he, too, or did he really have any revenue that was hidden for some other reasons? I think you'll answer. However, there is also a crucial issue, ladies and gentlemen, which opens up from now on and must concern us all and everyone because - I have said it publicly on television show, I believe that, at least above all, we feel in the area of the New Democracy - most of all, Greece. If Greece falls, we all fall. And that's a deep conviction to us. I say this with the conscience and experience of a minister, who, for two and a half years, has experienced an unjust situation - not for me, for the country - as I entered the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Finance during the negotiations, I saw the poster of SYRIZA calling on Greek citizens not to pay any taxes and contributions, Minister. We are opposed to this. We tell the citizens that they must be consistent with their taxes. We believe it conscientiously. We would never claim power by seeing ruins in Greece and that is our great political, ideological, historical difference. But be careful. In October 2015, as a parliamentary representative of the party, I called on the government, the current Minister, not to vote on that provision, which no longer imposed fines. You will tell me what you say, Mr Brutsi, you are telling us today to impose fines. Look, Minister. The issues of tax evasion and State income are a very serious matter. That's a very serious case. My experience with the Ministry, which I now use as an example, has shown that a prudent, balanced, but also decisive government, at political level, is bringing results. The Ministry of Labour imposed the famous fine of 10,500 euros. He was in favor of the workers. The next day, "ERGANI" showed seventy thousand new jobs, which were not new jobs, but was the fine tax that passed through the informal economy in the official. But that's not all. It was accompanied by a brave, for the first time in the history of the Ministry of Labour, a reduction in insurance contributions. You're doing something completely opposite here. Remove fines and increase taxes. Count the taxes you're putting on? They're innumerable. They were told by our rapporteur just before. They are well-known, excessive taxes, taxes that are incompatible, which will kneel to Greek society. My prediction is that at the moment there is a general climate of torque to tax evasion and avoidance. That's what pityes us. Take measures. I believe that there must be a combined framework of measures on the part of the Ministry of Finance, which will reduce taxes and increase the fines for tax control. But combined. Combined. This will bring revenue, create growth and prospects. And I come to the last, which has to do with, a pre-election promise of yours, the famous hundred doses. I'm sorry to say it, but it turns out to be a fiasco. Fiasco why they were included within the framework of the election rhetoric and SYRIZA's promise of seismicism. I would remind you, because now we can speak with clean papers and look into the eyes, that with Mr.4305/2014 we had brought the first hundred doses, without agreeing to the troika. Then it was agreed with the troika and the hundred doses began to yield. It was about September 2014 when you strongly claimed authority. Then you began to promise on the one hand seismic and on the other, not to pay anything. You brought your own 100 doses. They were attractive, indeed. In the course, however, these doses changed. It's your thing why you changed it. You have to say why. You've made the interest rate tighter. You have collected for debtors more than a million in the same procedure as those with low debts. The result, ladies and gentlemen, today, of the evidence I have from the Ministry of Labour is that from 133,358 cases have lost 55,310 regulation. That's 41,47% losses. I'm always right about what I'm saying. What does that mean? By measuring the trend, which has been shaped, at the end of the year they will have left the regulation of over 60% and this is due to the successive changes that you have made, namely the failure to comply with the original law of the regulation. With all that, in conclusion: You have made wrong decisions, you have made wrong policies, you are now leading to a deadlock and tax revenue and the world, as from September and October, taxes will be accumulated, a truly great deadlock, which we will all find in front of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u34	The fifth honourable Member, Mr Christos Bukokouros, has the floor. Will you speak from the seat, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u35	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u36	Is the sixth, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u37	The fifth is two more. Here you go, Mr. Buquore, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u38	Minister, if you - as all of us have said and said before - consider you to be one of the most serious members of the government - have to show in your area, in this crucial area of combating tax evasion and increasing public revenues so pitiful, almost deplorable, I would say, results, we can all conclude what is happening in the other ministries. I say this, Minister, because the taxpayers' debts towards the public are already close to EUR 90 billion. Already in the first four months of 2016, VAT losses reached 62% in major tourist destinations such as Mykonos, according to reports. You realize that these are not two very critical figures. I am obliged to start this way, Minister, because you are no longer a new government, so that you can keep talking about the forty years and all these novels on which you have built your account so that you can conquer the authority. That's the reality. You're a government for seventeen months now. From 2010 onwards, Minister, when we have the beginning of the memorial era, political time is extremely dense. The memorial time of the previous governments was two or two and a half years. You're getting closer. What, then, are the results in these critical areas, on issues that you had made a flag as SYRIZA, namely, Lagard lists and all sorts, foreign transfers, combating fuel smuggling - you have even left some SYRIZA strains to the fan saying that all these phenomena are covered by the previous government - tobacco smuggling, alcohol smuggling, which, in addition to public revenue, also affects public health, Minister? What, really, is the results that your policy has brought? Of course, all these issues have been discussed by renowned colleagues before. You will allow me to focus on an issue that I have the impression that even if we cooperate, there can be consensus and public revenue can be improved. It is the question of extending transactions in plastic money and electronic transactions in general, Minister. I would remind you that in October 2015 I had asked you a timely question about the extension of POS to stores and businesses throughout the country, with the legalisation of an irresponsible account, in order to integrate hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs into the economy and reinvigorate public revenues. You said then that it is something that you agreed with and you committed that since the beginning of 2016 the terminal equipment - the POS, as we say in the colloquium - will have been extended to all businesses and an unintentional account will be established for professionals who are in TECHNIA, so that, as I said, they can join the economic process. Since then, Minister, nine months have passed. Nothing has happened at all. The time has improved for the delivery of machinery to business, but this has been done on the initiative of banks and not the government, and nine months have passed! What each Greek citizen understands, what the Greek society understands, is incapable of understanding - in a stubborn way - the SYRIZA Government. What do you mean, Minister? That time is money. Members have already told you about the smuggling of fuels of 300 million, the smuggling of tobacco products of 1.5 billion, of alcohol smuggling of so many others, for the Nicoludian lists 2.5 billion, for studies that have previously been valid, that non-recovery of VAT leads to a loss of revenue of even 7.5 billion a year. The sum of all this, Minister, gives us two memos. And you, the most commonly professed Minister of Government, have no noticeable results. What's stopping you? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The previous government covered, according to SYRIZA's propaganda. Today who prevents you from dealing with these phenomena after seventeen months? Why, Minister, should the SYRIZA Memorandum - ANEL obliges you to legislate in the month to extend plastic money and electronic transactions and so much more? Today I read reports saying that you will respond from the VAT system to about six hundred thousand small businesses, with a turnover of up to EUR 25,000. This measure is positive. I do not know whether or not this applies as much as the extension of transactions with plastic money. I am sorry, Minister, but despite the appreciation on your face, I would like to say by closing my protagonists that your effects on the fight against tax evasion and increasing public revenues are poor. I'll come back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u39	Mr. Andreas Katsaniotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the last two days you've been at a conference in Patras. You have heard all operators say that the higher the taxation, the lower the State's revenue. All the agencies told you at all the panels. We need to see one thing. The main argument, Minister, that SYRIZA - ANEL’s opposition to the Samara government was that he did nothing to combat tax evasion. Whenever you accepted a question about where you will find the money to make the Program of Thessaloniki, where you will find the money to help the humanitarian crisis, where you will find the money for the thirteenth and fourteenth pensions, where you will find the money to raise the minimum wage and where you will find the money to stop HISPIA, the answer was one: tax evasion, lists and smuggling. After a year and a half, you should tell us or that you were wrong or that you were lying. You know the space, you knew him well. You have to tell us that yes, it was wrong, it wasn't that simple, it couldn't work like that, there were difficulties. And ask for an apology for the mud in the fan or say that you were lying, that there was nothing, that things could not be done so quickly, or that you didn't go on with what you found. You told Patras you'd keep good and keep moving on this. What have you done in fuel trade, Minister? What did you do from what you found? Why don't you tell me you didn't find it. The previous government proceeded to the input-out system, with 90% -95%. From there on, what? How many checks have been carried out in the past year? And I'm on my way to the lists. For some time we have to end this country with'story'. And in order to finish 'aristology' and not to hang anything above the head of all of us, those of us who are involved in politics, we must have the effect. Why are controls less, Minister? You're gonna have to tell us. And finally, I'm going to say something about a series of debates on 'outside'. They have heard here - because I was listening here before my colleagues on Papastavros - about Mr Flamouraris or Mr Stathakis' 'forgotten'. They may not be on lists, but they are a list of illegalities or irregularities. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What we all have to understand is that if we want the country to stand up and go forward, we will have to finish with the shadows, we will have to examine everything quickly and not the delay in stating or distorting reality. Because, as Mr Stamatis quite rightly said, the Greek people must know that the lists you speak of to the prosecutor have been taken by the Samara Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u41	Let's go to the last question, Mr. Constantine Vlassi. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u42	Minister, it is true that the fight against tax evasion has been a central pillar both in the opposition and in the election rhetoric of SYRIZA and few were the Greeks who believed in this rhetoric. The black money lists became a flag in the fight against social justice and of course the fight against tax evasion was presented as the way out of the crisis. Unfortunately, however, after seventeen months of governance of SYRIZA - ANEL, we note that all the issues relating to tax administration and the ineffectiveness of tax controls have been fully inactivated. From Mr. Tsipras' customary visits to the ILO, we have essentially led to its dissolution. From the clearance and huge revenues that would have been brought to control of the famous Lagard list we reached in 2015 that the fewer cases of the last three years have been checked. There is no development, of course, on the major issue of fuel smuggling and tobacco products. The fact is that at a time when the burden-sharing capacity of ordinary citizens has reached nadir, the government remains inactive in matters that could lead to significant capital influx. It is in fact the indifference you have shown in recent months, which you have not even made to the self-evident. And here I want to focus on the question of extending the use of plastic money. Although the negative evolution of capital control could be particularly favourable for consumers to turn to the use of credit and debit cards, Greece still remains a reality in the transactions with plastic money. This is because no institutional framework with specific tax and entrepreneurial incentives has been established, because the conditions under which these transactions are carried out are not attractive to users and because nothing has been done that promotes the use of plastic money, in addition to the mandatory limitations on capital control. However, just to extend the use of plastic money would have a direct positive effect on tax evasion, easily and simply. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] That is why we would like to know from you what you intend to do in this direction. Will there be additional incentives? Will the bank supplies be reduced? Is duty-free connected to the use of plastic money? And will you finally take advantage of one, the existing tool, to increase the effectiveness of tax mechanisms? Minister, we're just waiting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u43	I think that today is an excellent meeting and because it was the content of the speeches by the honourable Members very good and because their colleagues have listened with respect. I hope and hope and I'm sure it'll happen again now. Minister, you have the floor for twenty minutes, with a relative tolerance for you too. Of course you have both your dentology and your tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am very grateful to the Members of the New Democracy for their timely question, because they allow us to discuss a serious issue and submit the relevant documents to Parliament. And you can be certain that if at the end of the debate we didn't prove we were doing a job at the Treasury this year and we didn't have any results, I'm already going to quit tomorrow. I am not asking a Member of the New Democracy for that. But at least an apology for what happened in the past few years - why here are we going to document things - will there be? Because if it turns out today that in 2015 we went better than in 2014 in taxation, there is a huge political issue and it needs a great political response. I thank the forty-four Members of the New Democracy who have tabled the topical and urgent question. Of course, I am surprised to see that there are only nine here from forty-four for the topical question. It's okay. They give us the opportunity to say about all these things that are very useful to the citizens. Of course, I would also like to thank Mr Katsaniotis for what he said about the very good conference of the newspaper "POPOPONNIS" in Patras, where fundamental issues of the development of the region were discussed. Mr Katsaniotis, of course you will not see on any central website, in any newspaper that we spoke to thirty-five bodies in Patras, without anyone prohibiting us from entering, talking. There was a quiet dialogue, there were no episodes, no yogurts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u45	We're hospitable people!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u46	If someone, coming in somewhere, cried "Alexiadis, what you're going to do, what a problem you created us", ten days would play headlines. That is why nothing has been heard, but it shows culture and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u47	You say that to Paul?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u48	As far as I'm concerned...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u49	Don't interrupt, ladies and gentlemen. The positive one from Mr Katsaniotis, the return, has been heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u50	We have not interrupted anyone, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u51	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the topical question is concerned, I think it is wrong for the New Democracy to try to raise a question with the Government on tax policy issues, because the comparison, as evidenced by evidence, is catalytic. Comparison also proves the existence of political will and huge unanswered questions about the New Democracy government period. I expect to hear an answer here at some point about what happened. You are right to say that in December 2012 the list went to the ILO. The previous time? Will this Chamber once answer what happened in the previous period, or will it be hovering above the political world?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u53	From New Democracy, Minister? Other people ask these questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u55	You've been doing a lot of research on this thing at the time, but since...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u56	Minister, excuse me. Mr. Buquarre, please. We must return political courtesy. You've got secondarys. Mr. Stamatis was clear. He said government, Samara. What can we do now? That's what the Minister answered. There is another party colleague who will answer for a long time ago. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u57	I do not want to provoke you, Mr President. I'll move on right away. I believe that there is a comparison of data, and this comparison shows with data and the absence of the anti-population strategy, because when you are drawn from the headlines of some newspapers and websites for late payments, etc. - Then you're really going to fight in a field that isn't favorable to you. Within your question you say about poor performance and poor results. Keep that phrase. Poor performance in relation to what? Poor results in relation to what? I will compare 2015, an unprecedented period for the Greek economy, with 2014, the year of the success story. We are therefore critical that, instead of speeding up list controls, we are supposed to slow him down. We hear we've thrown an ILO in the trash. I challenge you either today or any other day: tell us one case. The Special Secretary of the ILO, Mr. Christou. Tell us one case where we dumped a case in the trash.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u58	Did we fly?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u59	Sure. It says in your topical question that we've thrown cases in the trash. So we want you to tell us a case like this. However, as far as the first question is concerned - because I am, in my view, consistent with the parliamentary procedure, responding to what your topical question says - as far as this is concerned, about the allegedly dismantling of the ILO. You should know that the ILO exists and is reorganised. A new legislative framework will come immediately to serve as a basic control mechanism for combating large and organised economic crime, as is its objective. The tax and customs matter has been transferred to the GATT. His recent success by identifying and seizing twenty-six million opiate pills worth at least 11 million euros is the best response to those who really wanted to dismantle the ILO. With regard to the institutional framework, with L.4336/2015, tax and customs powers were transferred from the ILO to the GDR, addressing precisely the issue of overlapping competences between the two services, because we had responsibilities both in the ILO and in the HICP. I would remind you, however, that Law No.4336 was passed by 221 MPs, that is, the law for which you are complaining about the ILO, was also passed by you, 221 MPs. What did we come here to do? We corrected what you created with n.4152/2013, according to which from 31-10-2013 you removed from the IAS the possibility of preventive and temporary control, effectively fragmenting the Agency. It must once be answered why this has happened. There is Law 4152/2013, and there is also the relevant circular, which was signed on 31-10-2013 by the then State Secretary and the then Minister of Finance, which says: "Transfer of responsibilities for organic staff and necessary resources from the Financial Crime Corps to the General Secretariat of Public Income". So you denounce us for something that you started and for the vote after that? I think your political criticism must be directed elsewhere. But you did something worse. You have made the Office and the officials carry out tax checks which had no legal basis at all, which proves to be abundant and recent judicial decisions, which are in complete contrast with the practices you were following at the time. The result of course was many assumptions to "fly" in the courts and while there was a commendation then and you said "Here, what are we doing!", the results for the public are zero, because we are not collected. But I'll go a little further, because you're talking about the thirty-six thousand cases. Say by what procedure and on what criteria was the case chosen for control? Is it simply with supposedly anonymous complaints made by some without being evaluated by any risk analysis system, which we and the ILO and the General Secretariat of Public Revenue? But this process of supposedly anonymous complaints aimed, very easily, political opponents and annoying media, which, unfortunately, have been targeted by tax agencies in recent years. You're talking about the thirty-six thousand cases. I ask you guys where you were studying the issues and having them all planned, etc.: thirty-six thousand cases would control an agency with seven hundred thirty employees, five hundred eleven auditors and two hundred nineteen managers? Make a simple division. How could that thing have evolved? But what did you do? You were loading the IMO with cases that were not of interest or which served specific political purposes, so that it would not be allowed to do exactly the checks it had to do in the big and important cases. Which of these thirty-six thousand cases is important and which are not, which have been evaluated, on which criteria, etc., is a question mark that you must answer at some point. All these morbid phenomena, we're done and we're going to change them. The effort started and will be completed immediately has the following characteristics: The new establishment plan of the ILO has been completed and is at the final stage of consultation, so that it will immediately come to Parliament, vote, complete and safeguard the new expanded responsibilities of the Office. The Agency will be strengthened with additional staff of high qualifications to respond to the difficult work it has undertaken. As far as the pending cases are concerned, we will immediately bring in a provision providing for the transfer of these from the GFCM to the GFCM, since the majority of them have tax or customs matters. In these cases, as for all of us, we will follow a process of prioritisation with full recording and setting out specific risk analysis criteria, which has not been done in the past. In conclusion, I would like to say on the issue of the ILO, that all of this could not be ensured, namely, that these cases were checked if the government did not take the initiative, despite the reactions we had at the time, to extend the limitation of the outstanding 31-12-2015 cases by one more year. The extension of the limitation enables us to check old years in the ILO and the GDR and to collect significant sums from large tax evasion cases, which we did in 2015 and we continue to do in 2016 with great success. Because, sometimes, however, we hear a criticism, which reaches the limits of hypocrisy, is it good in your dennote to answer: How would the twelve thousand out of the thirty - six thousand cases be checked up to 31-12-2015? How could five hundred auditors - even the managers and the drivers and the cleaners take assumptions - control these twelve thousand cases? So, as far as the issues of the ILO are concerned, it is clear - and I close it and say briefly - that the ILO has not broken up. The ILO has given tax and customs powers to the GATT and has regularly continued its role.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u60	Minister, before you go to the other chapter, I'd like to apologise and interrupt you for thirty seconds. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty-one students and students and five teachers from the 7th Primary School of Naples, beautiful Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Thank you very much, Minister, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u61	As far as your second question now concerns the issue of tax evasion lists and what we have done to unify data, etc., it is really challenging. You choose a field of criticism and confrontation to the government, for which what you have done is specific. Let's say, for example, for the Lagard list. It is, at least, regrettable to have this criticism and the question of what happened. We have not intervened in what will happen, in what will happen, in the controls. We didn't determine which auditors would check what. We didn't force auditors to do their job quickly or slowly. These are recorded and known, they have become CSR and we have a number of such situations. But at some point you have to answer exactly what has happened and at some point you have to answer for the political officials you want to name streets and squares. We have a different logic. Therefore, as far as 2015 and 2014 are concerned. In 2015, 173.9 million euros were certified by controlled lists, while in 2014 only 23.4 million euros, that is, a spectacular increase of 643%. The relevant email from the General Secretariat of Public Revenue together with a number of other details I will submit for the Minutes, so that you all have one picture. In 2015, the audits were completed in ninety-six cases, while in 2014 in just thirty-eight cases. And because I will listen to the criticism of the difference between these elements and the press release, which we made on 6-10-2015, I say clearly that any differences we have with that bulletin are due to the different time to draw up the data - because we have drawn data from GMOs and IMOs, and now we have one source only - and the number of cases associated with the Lagard list. Because we had cases on the Lagard list that started and had associates, and sometimes we had - let's say that - two-tier writings. I will also submit to you the relevant email from the General Secretariat of Public Revenue and the press release, so that you can have specific information. In 2012 the attestation set was zero and the number of completed cases zero. In 2013, the attestation set was zero and the number of completed cases three. Because I would remind you that the Lagard list, as opposed to the Borgarians list - where we will say immediately after what we did - has not entered into an operational plan, which says that we have two thousand sixty-two cases and we need to check from these thousands of five hundred, one thousand, two hundred, and the other ones. Let me remind you very well how late this story has been and how it went. In 2014 the certificate set was EUR 23,4 million and the number of completed cases was thirty-eight. In 2015, the certificate total was EUR 173,9 million, while the number of completed cases was ninety-six. That's the evidence we have with the statistical problems I mentioned from the Lagard list. They are specific and we will submit all the relevant information together. We also have the whole package of data provided to us by the Ministry of Finance, so that everyone can be informed. There is no way that we as political leadership have something that the Greek Parliament will not have. Let's now compare the Lagard list to the Borgians list. It is a characteristic example of what it means to cover up and what it means to reveal. We've just been informed of the existence of the list, we immediately set up a special operational plan. We asked for the list and came by the legitimate service route, i.e. through the process of the Department of International Economic Relations of the Ministry of Finance. She was neither lost nor forgotten. I will also present to you the relevant document of the DOS for you to have all the information. It was drawn up immediately and is already being implemented with a specific operational plan which provides for how the check-in will begin before it comes to Greece and how it will proceed. The audits started immediately after the list was received and we have already carried out a large number of audits by the financial prosecutors and tax agencies and signed a joint declaration of intent with the respective state of Rhineland-Westphalia, precisely about how we will organise our cooperation, because we are starting and not stopping at the Borgians list, and we have already completed the first cycle of auditors, which will go in the summer to do seminars there. What's the difference between the Borgians list and the Lagard list? I've said it, but I'll have to say it again. On the Borgians list within three weeks, we had identified hundred names. The Lagard list has spent three years identifying the first name. That is probably what you call 'poor performance', as you said at the outset in that expression. However, we are also moving on to tax controls. I'm going to submit the relevant data.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u62	But, Minister, testify to what you have from the lists in the Minutes. They must be shot and distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u63	A little patience, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u64	They should be able to take a look at them, because they might have to answer them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u65	It's a lot, though. Let me put it down in the course of my speech. We have the law for which you are complaining that we have not incorporated it into our national law, while we have incorporated it. We have the data, which have been given us for the average number of infraction, we have the data for the control of the IMO, we have the data for the controls of the IMO, from which the difference appears between 2014 and 2015. In summary, I will tell you: In 2014 we have six thousand six hundred twenty-two checks and three thousand fifty-four offenders. In 2015 we have twenty-six thousand checks and ten thousand sixty-eight violations. This is probably not what we call 'peaceful results'. Or else we call it. But let's move on. Let's go to one of the major audit centres, CIFF. In 2014 we had a EUR 249,7 million certificate set. In 2015 we had 417.2m euros. 67% increase. I do not know whether these are the 'peaceful results'. But again, I'm going to the CFO. Why? Because the CIFF does not control the grocery stores, suvalry stores or the cheese pie bars that we're told we're in control. They control large and very large businesses. From CIF data, offshore companies controls give thousands of euros per case. In 2014 they give 466,000 euros. In 2015 they give 766,000 euros. Immediate check: 350,000 in 2014 and 857,000 in 2015. Controls of natural persons of great wealth: 290 in 2014, 694 in 2015. We proceed to the JEP where we have the corresponding data: in 2014 the rate of collection and certification was 11.41%. 2015 was 13.10%. I read some evidence, because there's no time for everything. The recovery rate to be certified was 28.54% in 2014 and 72.3% in 2015. Mr Brutsis is right about what we should do during the tourist season. We need to step up controls. We will review the fines and see exactly what is going to happen. I shall mention, very briefly, the HSHR's data on the checks it carried out during the tourist season. In 2013 seven thousand and ten five checks were made. In 2014 they became twenty-two hundred seventy-five and in 2015 they became thirty-six hundred and sixty-four. Increase in controls 77.84%. We have the same in the customs sector, where customs services have increased very much the controls they have done over the previous years. I will only tell you the total amount of the charge: in 2014 we had 165 million, in 2015 we had 276 million. 6.35% increase. That is probably not what you call'sounding results'. I have, ladies and gentlemen, too much information to submit. I won't do it now, because it's...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u66	You will have a relative tolerance, Mr Minister. You've got a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u67	I wanted to tell you, of course, that this evidence is not from any of the secret archives of the Ministry of Finance. It is from the 2014 GATT Report, from the 2015 GFCF Report, from the GFCF Operational Plan for 2016. So there you can be informed. Terrible things have been heard about fuel smuggling. Mercy! For the smuggling of fuel? That is where we see the following. We see there are decisions, in laws that should have been made since 2009, and the decisions were made on 11 September 2015. For example: ‘Expansion and modification of operation of the bank account register system’ with signature by Minister of the SYRIZA Government. Also, ‘a document for issuing a specific control mandate for the designation of a specific project workshop by the IORP’. And that 2015 happened when it had to be many years ago. Also on the issues of fuel smuggling. On 16-12-2015, ‘Procedures and specifications for installation and control of integrated input-output monitoring systems’. What's all this? The citizen can hear us and he probably can't understand exactly what we're saying. It is a sound legislative framework and I congratulate you for voting on it. The political question you need to answer your remarks is, because on 16-12-15 one decision, on 16-12-2015, the other decision, again on the system of output inputs - these two decisions will be tabled in the Minutes, in order to inform citizens - the definition of specifications and requirements for the approval of fuel tankers on 28-4-2016, another decision on 11-12-2015. Why all these decisions and a series of others on the establishment and definition of working groups, on the project management team and a number of other cases, why all this had to be delayed and, while the legislative framework was in place, did not come out? In this you must give a political response, because we have exploited whatever law we have found, made all these decisions and already the system is running. Smoke and fuel control. There's a specific table I'll submit to the Minutes. In 2014 for the tobacco certificate amount: 59,894,000 and in 2015 147,664,000. We do not think that we are going to be calling for 'peaceful results'. Total tobacco and fuels - because in fuels we had a fall -77.948 000 in 2014, 161.447 000 in 2015. And pay attention to the statistical detail - the full table - I will submit - an average per case in 2014 EUR 1,993, an average in 2015, where we numerically did fewer checks through a specific targeting, EUR 10,454. Confiscations of tobacco products: In 2014, 428,000, in 2015 634,000,000. Difference 48% in quantities. Corresponding duties and taxes: In 2014, 75,000, in 2015, 115,000. 52% increase. Smoke and fuel controls on another table and a series of others that proves exactly what we are doing and where we want to take the country. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that I could talk about this favorite issue, because I am twenty years old and I am fifty-six, too many hours, but the figures are too much and this time cannot cover all of this. What I want to say is for sure that the government has a very clear objective, and today we have another move in the many that we have before us: we have tabled the tobacco bill, with which we can now make better controls on the movement of tobacco products from the field to the factory and on a number of other things that we could not do until now. We will also proceed with the voluntary disclosure bill, we will also proceed with the e-commerce bill and a series of other provisions that we have ready. It is clear that the fight to combat tax evasion, smuggling and corruption has begun. It's not over for us. It's continuing. But we'll give him along with society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Minister. We are now entering the part of Parliament's delegations. Mr Christos Stakoras, Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u69	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I was really impressed by your successes. But I cannot understand, since you have so many big successes, because you have taxed everywhere. Why did you cut pensions? Why did you cut yourself off? Why did you cut the NSA? If you had so many successes, for example, why did you increase the VAT on the focus that the previous government has reduced? If you have had so many successes, why have you increased the excise duty on heating oil that the previous government has reduced? Since you have had so many successes, why have you increased the insurance contributions that the previous government has reduced? Since you've had so many successes, why did you increase the tax on dividends that the previous government has reduced? Since you have had so many successes, why have you increased the solidarity levy that the previous government has reduced? Since you have had so many successes, why have you given a quarter of the humanitarian crisis in relation to the previous government, why did you not give any financial equivalent to the Minister to reduce any tax? So I would expect you to show greater restraint and greater respect for Greek society and to proceed in some form of self-criticism for your Government's actions and omissions in the field of tax policy and administration. And that's for two reasons. The first reason why you are politically exposed, since in the past and over time, as a party and personally, you have cultivated false promises, proof of your unreliability. The second reason is that you are currently being assessed for your actions, such as the imposition of new taxes throughout society, the reduction of the public's available income, the increase in tax dues, the increase in tax evasion, the loss of the regulation of most instalments for a large part of society. These are proof of your inability. Sadly, however, despite the proven unreliability and inability of your Government, you do not show the necessary restraint, neither for your "ovidial transformations" nor for your timeless lies, without sweating your ears when they are pointed out to you. In fact, you have received a press release today to inform you that you will come to the House to reply. Perhaps because on SYRIZA it is news that the ministers will come to Parliament, as they have to do. You therefore force me to remind you of some things not from a newspaper headline, but from yours. Minister, weren't you the ones who travelled all over Greece before 2015, even taking the role of a protagonist in the triumph, even calling on the citizens, as the invitations say, not to miss the meeting with you, because you were struggling to stop the tax-payer? I will submit to the Minutes one of the tours of this suffering. Did you forget? Today, when you have imposed the greatest tax rate in recent years with increases in direct and indirect taxes cumulatively by 2018 6 billion euros, not only are you not asking for an apology, but are you also asking for apologies from the Qualifications to ask for apologies? At least respect the Greek society and the sacrifices it has made - indeed cumulative - in recent years. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LABROYLIS]] But I know what you're going to say. It's self-righteous! That's because it was before January 2015, delusional of the past! Unfortunately, however, for you, Minister, we are not talking about fraud, but about fraud and lies. The lies have short feet, because the same project, directed SYRIZA, with the same protagonists, is repeated. Why fraud is, Minister, seven months ago, on 3 November, say that we have no obligation to implement the EMFF in 2016 and finally to maintain and broaden. I'll submit it to the Minutes. Why fraud is it, Minister, just eight months ago, on 18 October, to support - it is impressive - that you will not go into burdens on low and medium-incomes, because then you said that 80 billion euros of time will be up to 85 to 90 billion, and today you will have gone to a storm with the result that the debts have already exceeded EUR 87 billion. In other words, from that statement, you can confirm that tsunami affects, in particular, medium and low incomes. I'm going to put this in the Minutes too. Why is fraud, Minister, three months ago, on 12 March, to say that, in order to stop the increase in late payment, we must stop taking tax recovery measures. That's what you said. One month later, of course, you voted differently and today you have obviously done exactly the opposite. Why fraud is, Minister, five months ago, on 22 January, say that there will be no tax storm, no rafts, no more for farmers, and, finally, that you have increased their insurance contributions, that you have increased the cost of raw materials, that you have imposed them on them advances in taxes, that you have abolished them the reimbursement of excise duty on oil for agricultural use, that you have increased them the rates of income tax, that they have also been abolished by the OGA. Why fraud is, Minister, just a month ago, on 7 May, say that we do not on purpose keep tax refunds low, and today, the delayed tax reimbursements have exceeded 1,2 billion euros from 750 million, which was in 2014. Increase 60% on your day.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u70	Do you have the 2014 figures?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u71	Sure. They're the official figures of the General Government. I'll testify to the Minutes. Time-limited tax reimbursements, I hope you understand from evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u72	Stay quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u73	The due tax reimbursements are EUR 1.2 billion - they are in the results of the General Government, whose responsibility for two and a half years is to be announced - from 755 million to the end of 2014, increased by 60% over your days. These are general government results announced by the Ministry of Finance and I submit them to the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Of course, the list could be widened by your recent commitments on duty-free, heating oil, duty-free using plastic money and more. Minister, this is what you supported, not before the January 2015 elections, not before the September 2015 elections, but recently, after the last elections. It is, therefore, at least political courage to come and move the finger in the Civic Opposition. Of course, among the many things you have said at times and which the reality itself disguises, you said a truth on 18 March from this step. You said the bad stuff was over, but the worst comes. Indeed, you were right, because the worst followed and they haven't finished yet. With the storm of new taxes, with the pension cut, dividends, in one-off, in P.S.S.S.S.S. Inspiration, ownership and execution measures of the SYRIZA and ANEL Government. This tsunami of new taxes is a consequence of the ideological obsession and incompetence of the current government. It is obsessed that all citizens, particularly the low and middle classes of society, experience it painfully, with parallel overturns in their lives. Perseverance that doesn't make sense, no barrier, no end. Observation which, as has been shown in the first memorandum, is economically ineffective and socially unfair, leading to complete drying of the economy, which is dynamic of any prospect of growth, private initiative, the creation of new jobs, which kills what is left of it, which is impoverished further by society. A change in the fiscal adjustment is therefore needed in the direction of a gradual reduction in the taxation of households and businesses. This can be done when government credibility is available and budgetary targets are achieved, as was done in 2014. Then we won levels of freedom and proceeded to the first-target tax reductions. I repeat: the reduction of VAT on the focus, the reduction of excise duty on heating oil, the reduction of the solidarity levy, the reduction of insurance contributions. Today all of this has increased. But it can also be done using budgetary equivalents in terms of expenditure. There's room for containment. They're not big, but they're spotted. Of course it can be done by the continuous, institutional, administrative and technological strengthening of the tax-supply mechanism, a field in which the government - and I confirm it - has been having poor results to date. However, let us look more closely at your progress in the three or four areas that you have developed. As far as the functioning of the ILO is concerned, the SYRIZA and ANEL Government, unlike the previous government, have fully engendered the pressures of the lenders, as far as the transfer of powers by the ILO is concerned, even for the powers relating to public prosecutors and financial fraud, including tax cases, which are under way. The new Republic's rapporteur told you about the letters from the former Special Secretary of the ILO with these complaints and you did not answer them. The result is today, on the basis of estimates - and you did not deny the number - that checks could not be completed in thirty-six thousand uncontrolled cases, which probably correspond to more VDUs, including two and a half thousand cases linked to public prosecutor orders, even for those in the final processing stage. Just a small percentage of these, about four thousand, were transferred to the General Secretariat of Public Revenue after the dismantling of the ILO. Of these, almost half are of little fiscal interest and concern the non-issuance of tax data on catering and entertainment operations. The General Secretariat of Public Revenue, which you referred to earlier and to which the cases were transferred, has a thousand two-two auditors who already have debtd cases. In conclusion, the work done in previous years has not been exploited, substantial progress has not been made, the risk of failing cases is visible, while the fact that all cases are in the form of a physical file and not electronically allows for discrimination in cases. You also referred to the Big Business Control Centre. I think it is typically head-to-head, and they have not been implemented, despite the considerable advancement and quantification that has been made and agreed with lenders since 2014, the measures to combat VAT fraud, as well as the introduction of a lottery system to encourage the issuing of evidence. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will also take part in my dentistry. Secondly, as far as the lists are concerned, we have told them the truth and I am pleased that you have confirmed them. You confirmed, in other words, that the Lagard list was delivered on the same day on 2 October 2012 to the financial prosecutor, when it was received by the ILO, as it says, in fact, the press release you submitted today. Of course, the press release you submitted a few months ago is completely different to what you tabled today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u74	In October...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u75	No, you're changing numbers. In 2014 you reduced the number of cases to half. I won't expand. Mr. Stamatis mentioned all the lists and I understand that we agreed that this started in 2012. Since then, the financial prosecutors have been working systematically on them. But - and you know too well, it is a very difficult case - to build the appropriate infrastructure, which was not available for such a long and long time research. Specific know-how has been established for the identification and analysis of the data. Names were identified with taxpayers. There was a concentration of the bank accounts and other assets. 90% of the bank account register was implemented. Then, on the basis of the conclusions, cases were dealt with by the prosecutors as well as by the General Secretariat of Public Revenue, and the pace of completion of the cases began to accelerate. That is the truth, and that is what you tabled a few months ago. With regard to fuel smuggling, the previous government, in fact, installed the input-output system at 98% of stations. Since then, however, nothing has happened. The audits and cross-checks by the Secretariat-General for Information Systems are also missing. If there are no controls and cross-checks, the inflow-out system remains inactive, so the government will, as it has already done, turn to increasing the excise duty on fuel. On this point, of course, I must also acknowledge you as well. In an interview on 18 October you said: "In the field of smuggling, the frugality of the Greek state with a percentage of responsibility belongs to me and SYRIZA, because the very correct legislation that has taken place in recent years has not yet been implemented". Therefore, Minister, at last, apply the laws of the previous government and do not seek today to find political flaming for your delay in October. Go ahead in evaluation and cross-checking of input-out data, as you should already do. In conclusion, while we see an excellent willingness and diligence in increasing taxes, in other areas of fiscal policy and administration we hear only announcements, we see uncertainty, inefficiency and an effort to deal with terms of communication rather than substance. So, to date, for seventeen months the government's much-advertised war against tax evasion has proved empty political content. It is simply political flaming, as I have heard nothing about it - and the EUR 2.5 billion that you would receive from the Lagard list, as would the EUR 1 billion that you received from the fight against smuggling of tobacco, as well as the EUR 2 billion that you would receive from fuel smuggling, from February 15, 2015. These were your commitments. These were your programme statements, that is, EUR 5.5 billion. Instead of all this, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is putting in new measures of 9 billion, of which new direct and indirect taxes of 6 billion euros. This is evidence of incompetence and inefficiency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u76	Parliamentary spokesman from SYRIZA, Mr Balaouras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. First reading the question of the New Democracy and hearing the speakers today, I was thinking of a proverb that people are saying very well and that fits the glove with what we want to say today in this House. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, we must not talk about rope in the house of the hanger. You are the ones who hanged the Greek society, you have led it to misery, you have taken it into plunder. Now if the greatest responsibilities are on the PASOK line, that's another thing. Because PASOK was looking for flash drives to see where the flash drive is with the Lagard list. These things are known. Indeed, Mr. Stamatis said that Mr. Samaras just received the Lagard list, he gave it. But did the New Democracy colleagues hand it over to Mr Papastavrou? He said he handed her over in 2012. In 2012 you did not collect euros either. In 2013 you checked only three faces and also didn't collect a single euro from the Lagard list. So what happened when you handed it over? I mean, why are you going to imitate some things from mobilizations? Then the great mobilizations of the Indignant were like a slogan "Get back the stolen ones". Today you go as a farce to copy - we will see it Wednesday - the mobilizations without social territory, without a social turbulence throughout the country. I think it's for laughing at these things. Ladies and gentlemen, a lot has happened. You will tell me: 'We are happy?' Apparently not. We should have moved at other speeds. But - and here we have to admit it and admit it first you - first of all, we have received reduced staff. Was your current leader's policy to lay off and make available to civil servants, including the audit mechanism? We also received electronic infancy control, underdeveloped with pitiful interconnectors. Is it or isn't it? You say a lot about fuel, about him and the other. The possibility of interconnecting is infinite. Nevertheless, I must say from the position of SYRIZA's MP that we have done a great deal. We need to do more, run at many strong speeds in order to earn your own lost time. Mr Stavros asked a few questions. Why - he says - did you increase the contributions to the workers' funds? But, Mr Brutsis and Mr Stakoura, were you not the ones with great responsibility for the conclusion of the insurance funds? All these years that have passed, who has brought the insurance funds as they have been recorded today? Why, Mr. Stakoura?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u78	Why did we reduce contributions then?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u79	Mr Balaura and Mr Stakoura, please do not engage in dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u80	You've reduced your contributions to petty capital if it's in an investment situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u81	Mr. Balaura, can you hear me or don't you want to hear? You won't have a dialogue. Proceed to your location, make your speech. I would ask the other Members not to address the speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u82	Yes, but if they call me underneath what to do, Mr. President? You're right, but understand me too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u83	Keep going, Mr. Balaura, so we can finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u84	Aren't you and your government - both partners - who with the PSIs, with the structured bonds, brought the insurance funds into this situation? Did the Greek people forget that? [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] For the Lagard list, we said it was forgotten, and when the big outcry occurred, you started to appear slowly. We have seen the pitiful results. The Minister said it before. Can I have a word with you? In 2013, zero money was controlled by only three persons. In 2014 23.4 million and forty - nine persons were checked. In 2015, with a situation that was not the best for the SYRIZA - ANEL government, with a crisis, with a solution that was negotiated, with a completely intransigent field, 113 million and a hundred sixteen people were controlled, that is, six times more. For the Borgians list, is it true that you didn't agree to take the list from the Prime Minister of Westphalia - Rhineland? Hasn't the email from Samaras to the consul there, ladies and gentlemen, said "No relation to this thing"? However, we and we have received it and signed an agreement and assistance we have asked for and are given it to the Republic of Rhine. But, at the same time, we proceeded to something that, just to show our will, is not one of the most reasonable or legitimate things, that is, they "double" the financial prosecutors in an office without a label, without anyone knowing what this office was and we found two thousand certified people on the Lagard list. Finally, Mr Stavoura, you say that the small and medium-sized ones pay more for taxes and premiums. For example - we have just said so - an income of EUR 15 000. Cereals of the EUPM 3,200 instead of 5,400. Is it true or isn't it true? Tax 2,600 instead of 3,100. Total 5,800 instead of 8,500.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u85	Mr. Balaura, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u86	I shall conclude, Mr President. In fact, I am pleased with the question of the New Democracy because it gives us the opportunity not only to answer the government, but also to act on the left reflexes of the MPs and MPs of the SYRIZA, so that the government that exists today can go ahead and introduce it into the Greek society and make important arrangements for the non- and occupants, but also for the whole society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u87	Parliamentary spokesman for the People's League - Golden Dawn, Ioannis Sahinides.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u88	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's tabling of the current question from the New Democracy, I would say, is a summary of the provocativeness and policy that all parties have conducted over the years, except of course the Golden Dawn. Let us not forget that the parties that make up the Greek Parliament today as a whole, whether indirectly or directly, have participated in some governments. But here, Minister, there is a reciprocity between all the other parties. Safely we collect that the New Democracy speaks of lists without having a single example that has proved that they really wanted to fight corruption and tax evasion. No name has ever been mentioned by the tax evaders. On the contrary, we would say that there is also an agreement, perhaps in the usual way of the New Democracy, their former leader, who said that he only intervened once. Perhaps they have intervened and would not be unlikely to tell you tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, and who, formerly or now, want to be controlled. There is this absurdity here. There is a tax imposed by all governments without exception. We hear it repeatedly being denounced either by the military opposition or by the opposition in general when they are in opposition. But when it's good that one of them comes to things, we've never seen a collector's law be abolished. As opposition, everyone is saying that the measures and taxes imposed on the Greek people are unbearable, but never has anyone ever done anything, when it becomes government, to abolish these taxes. The hypocrisy of the New Democracy, in fact, when it comes to questioning, we saw it in the amendment tabled a few days ago for offshore companies when they left. This in itself shows what their attitudes are to combat tax evasion. When we talk about tax evasion in this country, we must say that it has specific professional disciplines. They are small sellers, self-employed and small businesses, where they are subject to exterior fines. Because, Minister, a fine of EUR 2 000 for a bottle of water, for which no proof will be cut, is devastating. The family with these 2,000 euros could spend four months. Minister, you have told us that there have been repeated and that there is still a check on lists. That, Minister, is the easy one. Doing control and making a fine certificate are the two easy steps. But you did not tell us, and no one mentioned evidence of collectivity. How many of these fines you imposed have been collected today, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u89	I filed data on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u90	We will be happy to see them, and I hope you will continue to submit data on the collection of all of this. As far as the economic policy that has been pursued is concerned, we must say that this is the fault of the tax evasion that exists. When you have abolished tax-free, a tax-free tax that was at 12 000 euros - and you know very well that most of the business sectors already with this tax-free in a way have been tax-free - so, Mr Minister, and you and your predecessors, with your policy, to avoid tax-free Greek people. You should have, in order to be able to step on the patronage of the Greek people - which, believe me, is huge - there should be a recompense from the taxes paid by the Greek people, which has not been seen by you as far as you are concerned nor by your predecessors. Today, Minister, when a free trader declares a net income of 10,000 euros, 6,500 euros of them either directly or indirectly are paid to taxes. With the EUR 3,500 remaining, a four-member family, who may also have a child studying, how can he survive? What are we collecting here automatically? That surely the only way to survive will be tax evasion. As far as the checks carried out are concerned, you remember very well that Mr Papaconstantinou was not prosecuted, not because he was not guilty, but because he was unable to prove the damage suffered by the Greek public by what he did. Minister, so that there can be investment in this country and investment not from foreign investors, but from Greek investors - because there are too many Greeks who have invested abroad - your first concern and first concern must be to get Greek investors first to invest in our homeland and after foreign capital. To do this and be able to hit the tax evasion, you have to do what we keep saying as the People's Association - Golden Dawn. There must be, firstly, a stable tax framework so that it can function attractively and allow the well-considered investors to come. Tax evasion is expected, but as I have said before, you should also check the big companies. When you impose taxes on small businesses, when you impose taxes on farmers, who are disastrous, in contrast to the large companies, which we know very well that even the coffee they take, even the gasoline they place in their cars, are justified as an exit, here we are not talking about equality, here we are talking about the violation of Article 4 of the Constitution, where it is clearly stated that all Greeks are equal. In no case does that apply to Greece, of course. So you should in every way hit the tax evasion on the largest social classes and not on the small and medium-sized ones. There must be tolerance in terms of the payment of fines for small and medium-sized enterprises, the self-employed and the small ones. And look, Minister, as I mentioned before, you can be able as soon as possible, because the lists are not just those mentioned. Mr Stamatis of New Democracy said that the lists existed in New Democracy, and here we are going to have to be told at some point that the New Democracy has done what it has done on its day. The lists are over ten. It just seems to me that New Democracy is on the Lagard list on several occasions. It seems that this list of Lagard contains the fewer of the New Democracy's members in it, unlike all the others. We have an example, as the offshore lists were, and I've mentioned it before from this Step. In one town, in Kranidios Argolidos, Minister, with a population of three thousand, it corresponds to a hundred and twenty inhabitants of an offshore company. What's going on here? Either they are terrible business demons, the inhabitants of this region or we should find out which politicians come from this region. And there are a lot of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u91	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u92	I have completed, Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u93	The Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Vardalis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u94	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have been following a discussion with koruna about who is responsible for the inefficiency of the state machine to hit tax evasion, while at the same time hiding the nature of this tax policy, a deep-class policy, which aims to take it out of the populace and to give it to big capital. Only to take into account that of the EUR 50 billion of the State's tax revenues, just EUR 2 billion, that is 5%, pays the big capital. Only this will understand the nature of your tax policy. At this time we had left the country with more than EUR 140 billion. In practice, therefore, capital is exempted from paying taxes with various tax reductions, the possibility of triangular transactions and offshore taxation in tax havens and various accounting terminologys. The most characteristic example is logistics. Shipowners pay a total tax of less than EUR 100 million per year, when their turnover exceeds EUR 10 billion and when at the same time they invest in new ships with a total value of more than EUR 4 billion. The shipowners, in other words, pay for annual fares for two or three days, and at the same time daily load new tax burdens on the population. This is where one loses the bill. However, the classic nature of the urban state is not limited to tax policy alone. In time it makes use of the budget to do exactly the same, that is to say take from the people and support the monopolistic groups. For this situation, which I briefly described, both SYRIZA and New Democracy and PASOK are fully co-responsible. You have shaped and retained all of you, this class tax system. After all, today the Minister also congratulated the New Democracy on the legislative framework that he left on his way out. He just couldn't use it. In any case, this argument with the old political system will have to end at some point. In our opinion, and the old and new business groups, large capital supports and at the same time destroys the people in taxes and trenches. Besides, now we have enough to count for SYRIZA's days. He had - he did not, as a government, strengthen the tax evasion of workers and, more generally, of the people's layers a year and a half. Recently, you charged 3.6 billion extra taxes, direct and indirect, to take the dose. Unwitting VAT increases, tax rates increase, tax reduction, and he goes on to say. One in two Greeks now owes tax. Within the first quarter of the year, dues to tax debt increased by EUR 4.33 billion. Of the thirty - seven thousand who had joined the setting of a hundred doses, fifty - four thousand can no longer respond. And all of this, despite the fact that year-to-year wages and pensions are falling down to increasingly low levels and popular layers count bloody losses. These days, with the new development law you brought to Parliament, which provides for aids and tax exemptions for monopolistic groups, the class character of your policy is best revealed. The aggressive promotion of privatizations of land and business typical of "Greek" reveals this, with the sole aim of recovering and strengthening the profitability of business groups. The government argues that it will deal with the "economic oligarchy", focusing on addressing tax evasion and corruption. It is certain that with this propaganda the government wants to ash in the eyes of the people's classes, that the new left government is facing the chronic problems of corruption and the avoidance of oligarchy. This flag has launched the new tax raid on people's strata that are not in a state of absolute impoverishment. The tactics are known: I reveal some clear examples of the tax evasion of the ruling class and then I intensify the tax invasion into the popular layers. While the people are squeezing under the burden of this policy, the government has the courage to seek and pay tribute because the control mechanism over its days is doing better than New Democracy and the PASOK to collect taxes, which are charged to the people's backs. This is misery, and it must not be that popular strata let it stay that way. The New Democracy denounces SYRIZA that it does not go any further than measures, which it has already said will take, that he is unreliable, that he has done absolutely nothing or that the results are poor. Calls SYRIZA for not moving quickly and criticising the anti-popular policy of the government. But it's a good critique. Are you criticizing what? In the fight against tax evasion. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. But you're both spying on the permanent tax evasion of big capital. Both of you, when you're talking about tax evasion, in your mind, are fighting tax workers, self-employed and farmers. New Democracy is criticising, saying it is delaying the introduction of plastic money. People's strata should think about who loses and who wins from plastic money. This plastic money premiere to you in nothing will benefit the people. People's strata have nothing to gain. For the lists, of course, there is a check. Not a conversation. After all, we have asked as a party for the checks that have been carried out so far and we have still not received an answer. The 140 billion money, which, according to your legal system, namely the liberalisation of capital movements, has been legally released - I stress it - from the country, will we tax them? Ladies and gentlemen, you are mocking with crowns to stop tax evasion when the European Union's inviolable principle is the free movement of capital, leaving offshore undisturbed, tax havens. Between them and Member States, it is sufficient that they are cooperative. A solution to the benefit of the people cannot be the consistent application of the current tax framework, the current tax policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u95	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u96	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is not a solution to argue about who will tax the violator more effectively. The solution is at the forefront of this policy. Workers, pensioners, self-employed people must strive to pay the large capital, tax the profits of capital at 45%, as well as the value of having shares and shares in factories, in businesses, in bonds, in investment products, in ships. Only the struggles of the people can stop scratching the people's family with taxes and raisins. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u97	Parliamentary spokesman for the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, the issues of the country are the issues relating to citizens' lives, the course of the private economy and the course of the public economy, which are part of the issues raised by today's topical question. While this is the reality - the unrelenting reality in the midst of a crisis - is trying in the last few days to believe that the country has returned a page, that things have changed and that they now have the opportunity to discuss electoral laws, Constitutional revisions, to symbolise the fall of the dictatorship on July 24th, with the proposal of the Prime Minister for the revision of the Constitution and related matters. It must be understood by the majority and the thoughts of these initiatives that the symbols of this period are very specific for the citizen, for the private economy and for the Greek society. They relate to taxi, to the phones to the loan debtors who are late in paying their debts from various banks or employees in other related services, from the insurance funds and the problems associated with the contributions, from the pension cut. And if anyone wanted to symbolize with something in the period, the period is undoubtedly symbolized by the ninety thousand less beneficiaries of the CSCE. These are the symbols and nothing more. All the rest are delusional and not only by naive evil the thoughts of those who move them, but also very dangerous in so far as they include proposals such as the direct election of the President of the Republic and so on. It comes today, Mr Alexiadis, Mr Deputy Minister, the question. And here I'm going to open a parentheses. The micronomists who had seen you answer my question about their luck very seriously, saying that after dealing with the evaluation we will see these, they are now asking me to tell you, on the occasion of today's debate, how they expect a meeting with you. And, of course, some of your contributions are expected to be made. The topical question enables us to remember some things that the majority reminded us of, of course, but which we too remember and all parties remember and all citizens remember, things that you said before the September elections, not the January 2015 elections. You said, "Nicholoudis," "for a billion. They reminded us of this. Let me remember Mr. Friend and his statements about the four families who would be taxed and how from the product of this tax, which is to be done for the first time, will the equivalents you promised people? You said that before the September elections, I repeat. In January 2015 you want to forget about him and invoke September. That's what you said in September 2015. What happened? No one has asked you, Mr Alexiadis, gentlemen of the government, to respond to promises you have not already made, that you will be better managers. What did the citizens ask of you? Give them what you promised them in Thessalonica Program - tenth third pensions etc. - and then - to come to your words - the equivalents and parallel programs of September 2015. You are not there because you were chosen as the best financial manager in the country to say day-to-day micro-interventions. You're there because you said a lot. And now what we expect you to tell us is not whether you made a ministerial decision and whether you'll bring a law. You've brought the developer who's gonna rain billions. I'll see you tomorrow. It is worse than the older ones, without solving half the problem of bureaucracy for the establishment of businesses or their operation. The laws do not make any policies. The laws are in place to pursue policies. So, what have you picked up at the time you've been in the government for a year and a half? Nearly a third of crisis management you are government. What about fuel smuggling? Don't tell me you'll bring a law. You have a legislative framework since 2012, Mr. 4072. How did you implement him? With the tax increases, indirect and direct? The general environment, taxation, we have said it a thousand times and we will say it. On the specific issue of smuggling, your ministers promised until June these major changes. "In a semester," we were told here. What's the balance sheet? That you did the alpha, did you do the beta? Did you catch a boat? The current governance, all governments and some successes of the state mechanism, which are less now? What are you claiming as a result of the turbulence that you caused? You're obligated to say. These little ones, you come and say, all the ministers who were in your position said. As long as I am here, these are what I hear: 'We have done so', 'we have made such a ministerial decision or a circular'. We want results that make political sense for those who have voted for you and those who are waiting. What did you do with the GPS application? What's the law? What did you do with the name of the license mark of the so-called 'white tankers', tracing liquid fuels before they were cleared with radioisotops? What did you do about the tax evasion? You haven't done anything. Your balance sheet is minimal. You've done little things. And when we criticize you, ladies and gentlemen, remember a little: what happens at the ILO, we remind you of the dialogue that took place when you had the organisational changes. We told you this would take the state mechanism's work back to the subject. We have six months and the DPOs have not yet been established, as a new form of service I mean. The fragmentation of the IMO has not been replaced by what you had - I hope you had it - in your mind. We have delays and drawbacks in all areas. We do not have the progress that would allow a government to take stock of the fact that, at least in these matters - the other things you have not been able to do - something has been done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u99	Mr. Loverdo, finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u100	Immediately, Mr President, I am closing. It's my last sentence. So you are being judged for that, questioned in the House and in the world. And don't swear on the civilians. Don't shoot the citizens who criticize you. He's not just Mr. Friend. Another state official today overrun the diggings and spoke very badly, in a tramukist way. You split, and now you're boiling. You are creating conditions for divisions, of which Greece has suffered a lot. Instead of swearing the world, proving that with democracy you have little to do, do something about what you have said, so that you have, in any case, the political courage and the ability to address with dignity the National Representation and, more generally, the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u101	The Parliamentary spokesman from the river, Mr Mavrotas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are talking, on the occasion of the New Democracy's topical question, about combating tax evasion. It was, after all, one of the big papers of SYRIZA - ANEL government about where we'll get the money. Finally, he will not find it from tax evasion, but from overtaxation of ordinary yokes. Greece has become a tax colony. This overtaxation, of course, has nothing to do with the development plan of the country. But the Minotaur of the client state wants more and more new taxes to feed. The river over the past few months has been campaigning for how we can cut waste so that we can cut taxes. We mean state wastes, which after six years of crisis still exist, because the timeless client system - and not only SYRIZA - wants to maintain and create inactive entities that do not produce work, appoint poster and allow his property to be devastated. That is why we submitted to all the Ministries parliamentary questions, requesting information on their supervised bodies. Because, to improve something, you must first measure it. And if this is considered "neo-liberal" by some left-wing ministers with right-wing pockets, who have the courage to characterize Potami as "extremely neo-right", then the words have really lost their meaning. Apart from overtaxation, there is also the way of the state household and the attraction of investments, such as, for example, the Greek, which you signed with pain. If there was no disbursement of the dose, there would have been more and more humiliation by your ministers, who have done a doctorate on the subject: "How to prevent investments in your country"! Unfortunately, with the customer state you received, promising to fight, you have become the best friends, quickly learning the locations. Any development tax system, therefore, has a twin brother, who cannot survive without him - this is war on tax evasion - not only for reasons of increasing the State's revenue, but mainly for reasons of healthy competition and equal opportunities. When one goes with the cross in his hand and the other cuts off through tax evasion, not only does society lose. And this is a domino that quickly lures all economic activity, throwing one - the bricks of social consciousness and cohesion. That is why we believe that the state should see the fight against tax evasion as the country's number one priority. After all, that means politics: priorities. With about 25% of GDP moving into the black economy, we have some people having a good time at the expense of suckers. Unfortunately, individualistic logic also prevails here. The millennial "Greek DNA" has many egotistical genes, as Dokins calls them, perhaps more than they should. How is this mentality cut? The answer is: In two ways, prevention and repression. Prevention is awareness in order for the other person to understand that it is not a punishment to pay taxes - fair taxes, but not the ones we have today - but a social obligation. Suppression is about finding those who evade and serial fraudsters to really punish them. More specifically, on 21-1-2015, in other words - the Prime Minister said: 'We must therefore find the money: from the party of lawlessness, tax evasion and smuggling. Because Monday's party is over." Did the party really end up or just change host with the same guests? We start with the lists, the checks of the various lists, which were advertised so much, have not gone any further. Why? Due to bureaucratic insufficiency or lack of personnel? After we smashed these lists, it finally only came out of communal junk. What do these lists have and the actual investigation sticks to it? Can't we separate taxables from the tax-free activities of the various companies and are we in trouble? But didn't SYRIZA come to untie all this as the new Alexander the Great, who will cut the gordian bond of intertwining? It looks like the sword doesn't cut well. In fuel smuggling the input-out measure was implemented by previous governments without sufficient planning, resulting in incompatibilities or failures and no exploitation of capabilities. But the current government is also slowing down. Circular and ministerial decisions, which should come out, are still hatched, such as the GPS for tankers. So in application, we're stuck. But since we're talking about fuel, here's something that interest us. On 30 March, in ratifying the Convention with Cyprus, you voted for an amendment which circumvents the procedure of the Article 3 Committee of Law 2286/1995, in which, apart from the relevant Minister, representatives of the parties and judges participated. So why are fast track procedures in such a sensitive area? By baptising all of them 'obsistent', as the government does, it makes the procedures opaque and accessible only to the acquaintances who have the appropriate information in good time. Is that what he wants? And because we've seen this project before, we'll watch it. Let's go to the smuggling of tobacco products. Mr Nikoloudis announced last summer the fight against the smuggling of cigarettes and tobacco products. Finally, Mr. Nikoloudis was removed and Mr. Alexiadis came in, who in turn announced a new powerful blow against the smuggling of tobacco products, applying the necessary traceability of cigarette packets. In fact, today a draft law in consultation, which refers to all of it to ministerial decisions that will be adopted, has emerged, while the famous traceability goes to 2019. In fact, with today's bill that came up in consultation, a new committee against smuggling is being set up. Within a year, that is, after the ILO, we went to the Secretariat-General of Public Revenue, from there to the HAGF, to the Public Revenue Research and Assurance Agency, and now to the Coordinating Operational Centre. And until responsibilities are transferred from body to body, black holes are created in the controls, as in October-December 2015. We've said enough about plastic money. The more natural money goes on, the more the black economy favours. It takes motivation, both for citizens and professionals, but the government is also on this. In closing, ladies and gentlemen, I have heard many people say that the reforms have an ideological mark. Some might. However, the main reforms that the country needs - such as combating tax evasion, speeding up the administration of justice, combating bureaucracy, promoting dignity, transparency and combating customer relations - do not fit under ideological labels. For this reason, I do not see a front of ideological conflicts, but a field of parliamentary consensus. We must therefore get out of ideological wires in order to benefit from the synergies of the private sector and an effective state. Unfortunately, however, our political system decades - not to say for centuries - is nourished by conflict and not by composition. Unfortunately, the same is happening today. And I fully agree with Peter Mark, who says that for the last six years we have suffered without knowing. So when we start to learn that exit from the crisis wants more compositions and fewer conflicts, we will have returned to the country. As long as Greece’s book is still open. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u103	Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u104	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in reading the question of the Members of the New Democracy, the impression that is being created to someone, but also the conclusion made by the one who knows the basic economics, is now having an experience of how the state and the public works and what he imagined before entering politics and after he entered politics what he saw and what he diagnosed, is that most, for political reasons clearly, forget what they have done, deliberately. I don't lie to anyone personally. We'll just talk in political terms. When June 2016 arrives to discuss a question - and I begin with one topic in luck, say - on plastic money, when this country has been governed for over 40 years and - if you want - within the memoranda from 2009, in 2010, in 2010, should be one of the main pillars of the resolution of the Greek economy, of the fight against tax evasion, of tax evasion, of VAT collection, of tax revenue, of the circular - which you should have made for the use of plastic money? And you come in June 2016 and say, "What are you doing?" And all of this, while we've introduced it since last year and while the Minister says - and you know it very well - that the other bills and circulars are coming in this month or in the summer? I do not understand why we are politically coming to control someone who has come to manage a nuclear bomb, which has fled us into our hands. The evidence is relentless. To translate the objective elements of the General Income Secretariat's accounting reports is an issue on which we could play a very nice play in Epidaurus and ask everyone in their own way to deliver the data. But the numbers are specific. It cannot be said that fewer controls were carried out, while more has been done. We cannot say that the revenues were less, while they were more, because at the end, we are either blind or lying. It is a pity to lie to the Greek people when the numbers are so clear. In 2014, we have thirty thousand thousand nineteenths of controls on tobacco and fuels, with a set of testimonies of 77.9m euros. Our government in 2015 did 15 thousand four hundred forty-four controls - less than half - but it received 161,4 million euros, more than double. How do we doubt that we have received twice as much? Because we are all involved in the negotiation with the institutions, we know what ad hoc means, in the medium term, or there is a gap in a permanent measure, if you want, so that there is a continuation of macroeconomic measures, so that I know whether to take a measure of permanent economic footprint or an ad hoc economic footprint. We must not confuse the truth with the political lie, because it is a shame to pass the wrong message. We should all say "bravo", as we said "bravo, you did well and you built the circulars, at least in the years 2012-2013." But you did not vote for them and did not implement them. Say "bravo" that we vote for and implement them and we go along to give us a creative solution, even better, to how we will find the money or where we will find more money for the sake of the entire Greek economy. ID, IDD, taxes, organograms. It hadn't happened. So, you come to a public, which works in a way, which is vicious, only creates cost and customer relationship in June 2016, after everything we've been through in negotiation last year and if the evaluation is over and we say "what did you do?" and ‘why is the IMO not working?’ and ‘How does he do checks?’. How does he do checks? Last year I checked on Mrs Valavani, because we couldn't hire people because of the SAAP. We could not make transfers under legislation, bring from another agency staff, make preventive checks in the summer. Yeah, we can't break the law. But now what else can we check? Interbank transactions now - and I come to the question which was answered, of course, because they also came out of the non paper, e - paper on 0.3% which is very low cost - using the debit card has fallen to 0.5%. So it's competitive, if you want, an advantage for someone to use the debit card. He does not lose money from his sale, so that he also has the incentive, beyond the state's enforcement, to use plastic money. Waste all over the place. We mentioned the issues about how much we collected from the Lagard list: 26.620 New Democracy, 178.313 SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks. A little applause should have been received. The difference is 26 to 178. Yes, we cannot take a permanent budgetary measure with that. This is not something that could stand up for a negotiation of budgetary measures. Checks have increased. It was our government which, to remind you, in a question to my dear colleague, Mr Alexiadis found, for example, the unrealistic debts of the National Broadcasting Council. A lot has been deposited. I'll deposit one, two cards. We had established amounts of 23,332 and collected 9,351, from 2010 to 2016. We lack more than 12 million, which the previous government could not collect from certified fines from the National Broadcasting Council in various media. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Deferred debts, insurance funds. This is the pool table - we call it nice, it looks good - private debts to the public for 2014, how it started, how it ended. That's what we received. Those numbers can't be questioned by someone. These numbers are also per month from Excel. Should I resurrect them? [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Cumulatives 7,300 in 2013. Extra 10,300 in 2014 plus 10,251. Cumulative maturity. These are the time-limits from the Excel of the Ministry of Finance, which no one can break. We say: Why does the IMO not work? Why didn't you collect revenue? Why did you put taxes? Why did you increase insurance contributions? From the "excellent" and "successful" your own governance - I will leave a very nice table, which is to read and cry - nine hundred eighty thousand were the redundancies. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'm staying in a number. You have managed to lay off nine hundred eighty-eight thousand people who practically removed 8.3 billion from the insurance contributions, the fund, year after year. How much did we get before and how much after the crisis? The 8,200 lost them from the nine hundred eighty-eight thousand who were fired. They weren't fired by SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks. And we come to manage this bomb, along with the bomb, Mr. Venizelos' huge constitutional success, who haired 12.5 billion of the insurance funds and dissolved the banks with another 37.8 billion. We borrowed all this three times. We have all borrowed this and yet there is no money left, because no one can then give a solution, either proportionate or financially. There was nothing anyone could do. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] How are we going to solve the insurance now, so that we do not put taxes on which we are accused, because we are supposedly not collecting them, while proving that we are receiving more?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u105	Mr. Cammane, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u106	I want a minute, Mr President, and I'll be done. Thank you. All these measures, all this effort of the government is to manage a crisis. The crisis was neither 2015 nor 2016, it was many years old. It deteriorated with the crisis of 2010-2014. Unfortunately, it's getting worse. Those are the numbers. There was no way of government in January 2015, with 55 billion dues until August 2018, to find money, when in June 2014 it was agreed that the budget gap was 12.6 billion and the unspecified measures - I am not saying them, the IMF was saying them with you - it was 5.7 billion plus 2 billion, from contributions and extra taxes, i.e. we had 8.3 billion unspecified measures, which you agreed in 2014 to take in 2015 and 2016. And we are now discussing why and how the mechanisms work. The mechanisms will work well. We'll collect a lot more. We revealed the "Kerani" or the waste of "Kerani", which the Services will be transferred. The day before yesterday, he made a...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u107	Please, Mr. Cammene, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u108	...and we found the rents that the public pays. Now we're checking. Will you tell me, of course, a year later? We've been working a year. We don't sit down. Public rent is 108 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u109	And that's what you're closing up with.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u110	It's gonna be all packed up. They will collect public expenses, whether they like people or not, and we will see who rented them and whoever. For two employees EUR 1.600 a month rent for one room pays the public, not us. We found that. Shouldn't we change it? We'll change it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u111	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u112	The parliamentary representative of the Union of Centres, Mr Georgiadis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u113	Evening, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact that the government's actions are totally wrong. However, the Members of the Officerial Representation appear to be in this question - and you will allow me to speak - to insist on a populist rhetoric. The argument of the New Democracy is exactly the same as that of SYRIZA before taking over the governance. Let me remind you that SYRIZA was shouting that there were not enough tax checks, that the Lagard list was not checked, that tax evasion had not been struck and much more. When SYRIZA takes the lead, the very same findings are made by the New Democracy. For someone who closely monitors political developments, this phenomenon proves one thing only, that populism is not colorless. The great wound of the post-government period is that the demagogy contaminated all ideological directions. The concept of the Left and the Right have long faded. Simple changes of power have from time to time, with a similar ideological mark. The question says tens of thousands of uncontrolled tax cases have been left in the middle and that the Government has broken down the ILO and the tax mechanism has been deorganised. Let us recognise this reality and even that that is exactly the case. I have two questions to ask. Are we satisfied with the existing tax control mechanism of the ILO and, more generally, the tax machinery currently in existence in Greece? Is this the way for the systematic judicial investigations, even with the physical presence, in the companies concerned, still what more revenue will be yielding to the State? To arrive at a complaint that the ILO does not work, we agree de facto that the current role of the ILO is the best. I would particularly expect the New Democracy colleagues, who are supposed to be very sensitive to entrepreneurship - and this is the case - to make concrete and useful proposals and not some such observations. For example, I would expect them to talk to us about modern automated cross-checking mechanisms in all trades between businesses, incentives, not income statement anti-incentives, modernisation of local DUs and bridging the computer systems and all the public bodies involved in market transactions and so much more. We don't live in a cave season, so we can hunt the private man with a rifle to pay. The second question is whether we think that more revenue will be collected when we have more controls. So you really think tax evasion is the result of incomplete control mechanisms? Is that also a question of lack of tax return? I think, indeed, that you are very consistent in reading - it is something that makes me impression on all the Members of the New Democracy - I just didn't see that when it comes to the 2015 public revenue accounting report. And I mention this. In 2015, SYRIZA increased the DUs control compared to 2014. Two thousand six hundred seventy-four checks by SYRIZA, compared with two thousand hundred ninety that New Democracy had done in 2014. Also, in 2015, two thousand two hundred ninety-one capital tax controls were carried out, namely 8.5% more controls than in 2014. It is on page 32 of the report and because it is in total ninety-five pages, I submit the related link in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What was the result of increasing controls? We had a lack of revenue of 7.7% compared to the target set for 2015. This is on page 22 of the report. The significant time-lag at tax level is 86.3 billion. And this is on page 25 of the report. That's a giant number. And that means only one thing, no matter how much payment orders you get, the Greeks' tax capacity is exhausted. These huge amounts show that something is wrong with our tax system and not with tax mechanisms. Other comments continue in the same climate. They all aim at the supposed fight against tax evasion. You focus, in essence, on eliminating the result of the economic crisis and not its cause. It's like it's the fever in a sick person, not the bacterium that's causing him, and it's the way to give anti-pyretics to the community that's got a fever, not antibiotics to get better. We see, for example, that you are proposing to extend the use of cards, that is, of plastic money. And that is in line with the government and the opposition. How will tax evasion be combated using plastic money? Have we completed as a state computerised database interconnection between all banks and the DUs so that we can reach a level that we can discover tax evasion through plastic money? Clearly not. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, one or two minutes I would like your tolerance and I will finish, please. It is simply still going to operate the system with targeted, avenged or threatening checks on specific default operations. Even if we had reached that level of computer, I'm going to ask another question. You, as a New Democracy, are supposed to publish the free market. And really, at least in words, you look liberal. In what liberal economy has the transaction value of cash been abolished? Do you want to remove cash as a transaction medium? Finally, the question also highlights the lack of control over tobacco products. But, well, the government reinstated cigarette tax with the recent tax bill. This overtaxation is the cause of the increase in tobacco smuggling and not the lack of tax control. Do you think the market will give birth to money if you start a ruthless safari against her? Do you, too, think, as a New Democracy, that the cause of tax evasion is that the Greek by its nature is a crook and wants more flogging? No, gentlemen, it's not like that. Clearly, there is an urgent need for a new tax mechanism geared to technology, incentives and counter-incentives. What is the main problem is not incomplete controls, but the inability of the Greeks to pay. They're not cheating Greeks. And that's why? Because very simply both parties - both opposition and the current government - have kept your client state intact and you are not looking at the diseases that this brings. I will set an example, and I will close with it. What's the solution? We have two transported containers. On the one hand, taxes are smuggling and tax evasion. The more taxes increase, the more smuggling and tax evasion rises. The example is with tobacco, which we see in recent years from 3% of smuggling, while we are increasing the tax, has reached about 28% right now. If you want, gentlemen of the Government, to bring in real revenue and get money and come growth and investment, you need to reduce taxes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u114	We thank Mr Georgiadis, with whom the circle of parliamentary representatives has been completed. We are entering the new cycle of the seconds of the New Democracy Members, with Mr Besyropoulos first. I would very much ask that we be precise in time. As long as you can, try. You have already exceeded the time of your prototypes, but all, not only the questions, but also the Members of Parliament, the time you are entitled to. Make an effort in dentistry to be consistent in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would like to say that the answers and explanations you have given to the dissolution of the ILO were not convincing at all. Do not distort what we say, Minister. We didn't say you throw cases in the trash. What we have told you is that you have thrown all the work that had been done in the past on a level of control, and the special secretary you had placed in the ILO has been disproved by you. The same applies to the information you invoked for tax controls. I also told you in my protagonist that, in order to obtain income, a process of maturation takes place which passes through controls and documentation. From the issuing of a control order, its notification, and until the tax attestation, a period of more than one year has elapsed. I challenge you, Minister, to bring us full control from the major audit centres that were issued in 2015 and to certify taxes in 2015. That's it, so we can finish with that fairy tale. All of this is not done within a few months, so you realise that the data and the "achievements" you invoke for 2015 are due to the work that has been done in the previous period by the audit mechanisms. You referred to the favorite topic of government, lists. I am sure that you will now avoid these reports as long as the time passes and your inconsistencies are revealed. Did you do what you had to do to stop tax evasion? Are you going to unify all the lists, checks, appeals, so as to facilitate checks? Oh, no. Did you proceed to the display per year of the total declared property of taxpayers in order to identify issues of increase in the property from undeclared income? Oh, no. Really, what about the Incubator that you were going to bring from last October? Did you take any measures to avoid the limitation of the thirty-six thousand cases under control, which following the dissolution of the ILO, are impossible to control? Oh, no. What results do you have to present? On the subject of controls now, Minister, I will ask you specific questions and I expect to receive answers. The five hundred employees of the IAEA who moved to the General Secretariat of Public Revenue handled specific cases had been charged with specific checks. All these people delivered the cases that had been charged. You, Minister, have come to the conclusion that it was minor or unworthy cases and therefore nothing is wrong? Because that is what you told us a moment ago. The auditors, too, entrusted with checking the Lagard list, have been disproportionately entrusted with a large number of cases, causing control suffocation and making it impossible to deal quickly with cases both because of the nature of the check and the difficult assumptions they have to check. How many cases on 31-12-2016 have each auditor been charged on average to the audit centres in the country and what does the government intend to do with these cases? Because our own information states that each auditor has been charged with thirty to forty cases, so it is impossible to cope with it. At the same time, there are experienced and qualified officials of the ILO who have been inactivated. Minister, you know that I make proposals because I have studied the issues of tax policy in depth. I shall refer to the use of plastic money. I have made my proposals publicly and asked you a question in this House. Apart from the fact that you have done absolutely nothing in this area, our big difference is that you are dealing with the prospect of extending the use of plastic money through impractical and impracticable administrative measures, and I am connecting it with incentives for the consumer and the businessman, that is to say for both traders. Greece is the last in Europe in relation to transactions made by a credit or debit card holder, with seven transactions on an annual basis, when the Eurozone average is seventy-six transactions on an annual basis. This has to change. But, Minister, this does not change by administrative measures. The Ministry of Finance must adopt the best practices applied in other countries and include even a refund of money for transactions made with plastic money up to EUR 1,000, always under income criteria. There is a need for tax incentives for enterprises to adopt electronic transactions. There is a need for intervention and an initiative by the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Greece to adapt the Greek banking system to the European directive to reduce procurement in banking from 3%, which can now reach 0.5% in order to facilitate the use of plastic money in order to avoid excessive charges for citizens and businesses. After all, there is also a relevant European directive imposing this adaptation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. There are businessmen and businesses that have public debts or are at TIERIA. They may not or shall refrain from installing interchange devices. You need to take careful note of this case and institutionalise the incompatibility of the specific account in which interbank transactions are to take place, but at the same time, businessmen are required to pay through this account their obligations to taxi and to insurance funds, to make payments to suppliers, payroll and to the CCI accounts. So we're talking about a professional account to which the irresponsible will apply. What's simpler? Mr Minister, you must pay particular attention to these proposals and our points. It is assumed that the problems of the tax administration have been intensified and that there is a question of the return and collection of tax revenues, since the imposition of new taxes is intensifying tax evasion. It is also certain that for all the questions that the government has not answered. Questions are still rhetoric and prove you have no plan. But you have the opportunity to think, to see the reality and to understand the deadlock in which you lead the country and the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u116	The second Member has the floor, Mr Dimas. Mr. Dimas, here, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u117	Minister, it is at least acidifying to boast about your economic policy, when, on your own behalf, more than EUR 5 billion has been imposed as a tax policy. I do not include in this period of proud and hard negotiations that you were not in the place of the Deputy Minister. Only on your own days, in the last ten months, have you taxed more than EUR 5 billion. However, because the result is what is being measured and the figures are vague on your own days, i.e. on governments of Tsipras - Kammenos, there have been increased the overdue debts of private individuals towards the public by EUR 17 billion. I think that's a number that speaks for itself. Also, from March to April alone, the increase is EUR 700 million. We should therefore be very careful when we try to boast about the policies of the governments concerned, because the figures are clear. According to the report of the Bureau of Parliament, 99.9% of taxpayers have total debts of up to EUR 9.74 billion. The remaining 0.1%, which is just over five thousand two thousand debtors, owes the public sums more than EUR 1.5 million each, with the total debt corresponding to about 77.1% of the total outstanding public debt. Have you even taken a measure on these big-ass ones? I'd like, if you've done it, to expose it to us. At the same time, electronic transactions in Greece show very low penetration compared to the other Member States of the European Union. If I remember correctly, we're second. The introduction of compulsoryity in several transactions, as is the case with tax declarations, could, in a reasonable time, greatly reduce the issue of virtual invoices and the percentage of the parafiscal economy, increase VAT collection - and not just - and reduce the cost of supplies for the public sector. I would like, Minister, to tell us what measures you have taken to extend electronic transactions. From now on, have you launched any additional initiatives to expand e-commerce? If so, why have you been so late to bring them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr. Dimas. Mr. Stamatis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u119	Minister, no one can question the fact that you at least enjoy it, you are also a parliamentarian and you enjoy it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u120	I'm a non-parliamentary.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u121	You are a non-parliamentary parliamentarian. Of course, that impression we have here is reflected in society too, which is why you can go to Patras as well. I don't think all the ministers are running as comfortable. From there on, on the substance, are you frankly satisfied with the ILO, I mean by the creation of the composition of the ILO? I'm told they're serving a hundred and seventy people. Is it true? If it is true, then you have a great responsibility because you assure the House that they can complete their work. You're exposed. Why do you take such a burden that you do not own and that some people have taken care to add it to you. Secondly, I am glad you finally understood, but you must also inform the Prime Minister that the Lagard list was handed over by the Samara Government to the competent authorities once on 2 October 2012, just received it, and one by Mr Stournara in December 2012 again. Do you think the government could do anything else? Locked up is the list. Take her away. I heard colleagues say a name, Mr. Papastavrous. Did the revelation, the discovery of Mr. Papastaurou's name, take place by investigating in the first two hundred fifty eight names on the Samara government? Did that happen? Yes or no? To determine how much that government operated on the basis of the rules and legality without interfering with the work of justice. And I'm saying that because, if I haven't heard wrong, you have to explain something. I heard a while ago that, as far as the Borgians list is concerned, you say that we stand out who we're going to control and who we're not going to control. Who controls this, administration or justice? Clearly, because this can create a big problem. Of course, for the Borgians list, you have been told by the man himself that "I didn't have a list until 2014, the list was delivered later". That is why you will not say 'Boryans list', you will say 'Tsipras list', so that we can then see the results of the audit, because I heard a lot of 'will', 'we will study it, organize it, send taxis upstairs, come tax technicians here, so that we can make an end'. And because before the status of Minister of Finance, Mr Alexiadis, you had another quality, to remind you of the noise, the storm of reactions that your industry raised with your head and you, when it was heard that Greek tax officers would go or German tax experts would come to Greece. You were talking about destroying national sovereignty, about what you are right to do today? You were then revolted on this matter, because you considered it an intervention within the country. Welcome to the realists' school, but remember what you said a moment ago! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me one more minute, Mr President. Furthermore, since we are also discussing the political will of governments to step up tax evasion, Minister, I would like to ask you a question: why do you not incorporate Directive 107/2014 of the European Union, which concerns the gathering of information by 2016 and the exchange of information by 2017, which we should have ratified by the end of December 2015? Is it not a useful and effective tool to combat a section of tax evasion? In conclusion, I would like to say that you have not answered me about Mr Nicoludis. Did he see the 2.5 billion in his dream? Let's know who the ether is! The 2.5 billion acquitted taxes and directly collectors who would alleviate our economy - which was then tymurgical throughout Greece - was it true or lying? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr. Stamatis. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis, has been speaking for three minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be as brief as I can. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is quite clear here that lies have close legs. Today the New Democracy, with the timely question to the Deputy Minister of Finance, confirmed this very thing, that all these lies were the great populism, the demagogue of SYRIZA. This topical question confirmed SYRIZA's great lies and political fraud electionally. For we have asked emphatically, Minister, for you to tell us where Mr Nicoludi's 2,5 billion is, as well as where the proceeds from tax evasion, smuggling and the Lagard list are. We didn't get a reply. Because, if you had an answer, you should also answer that question: After having collected these, when we collected them, and why the 5.5 billion taxes were levied, which you imposed a week ago on your own bills. And along with it, it was unfortunately confirmed that the government has no plan. Compression moves the unknown. With regard to fiscal policy, which is a crucial factor for the country, especially in this difficult period, it has been confirmed, Mr President, that fiscal policy and the axis on which the government is moving is the increase in taxes - a conscious choice - and a reduction in fines. We warn that this is the wrong recipe. And in the next few months, especially in September, October, with your policy, you will turn the whole world towards tax evasion and tax evasion. You have no mechanisms for imposing and dealing with the phenomenon, and we will be faced with very dangerous divergences from the objectives and a reduction in tax revenues. And that's something we're out of. That is why we call on you to change policy and increase fines and reduce taxes at the same time. Otherwise we will all collapse together, but first you, in the sense of the political costs you will have and the new painful measures you will bring with the cutter to all Greeks. And I come to something that has been heard just before the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, which I consider to be very serious. It has been said and involved in the debate that the day-to-day protest meeting against the government does not have any political problems. So I answer that there is a political risk from lawyers, from engineers, from doctors, from farmers, who are actually taxing with 38% and 27%. Of course, there is a political risk for the whole world, to which you are unfairly taxing, which you know will now lead to the most dynamic parts of the Greek economy being exterminated. It also sounded unbelievable. I was actually criticised because I reduced insurance contributions. Of course I reduced them! And it was a conscious choice, which benefited the workers first and foremost, because unemployment began to deviate at a high speed, something which is still going on today, but which has been interrupted. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would remind you that I took unemployment to 27.9% and in January 2015 I delivered it to 25.8%. It was down by 2.1%. Our forecasts along with the troika - with which you are now working - were that at the end of 2016 unemployment would be 19.5%, that is, four and a half units of difference. Because unemployment will now close to around 24%. In other words, two hundred thousand jobs have been lost and 900 million euros have been lost from the insurance funds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u124	All wrong predictions!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u125	This is SYRIZA's crime against the unemployed and workers - particularly the low-paid - who at the end of the month will see their wages falling due to increased contributions and tax-free reductions. So, for workers, there is also a political risk that they will be in the square tomorrow, protesting against the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u126	Mr. Bukokouros has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u127	Minister, you will allow me to tell you - and this, having listened to your prototype - that you are, in my view, subjected to a misconception. You said from the Stepma 'I will answer what the question says' - and you did not answer them either - but here in the course of the debate and parliamentary scrutiny a number of serious questions have been raised, which I hope you will answer your second reading, otherwise there will be no point in putting the question before one of the Members, you would answer in writing and end there. I think it is a procedure that is available for a useful dialogue for the citizens of Parliament. Unfortunately, you have not responded, under any circumstances, to the big issues. If you think, Minister, that the Greek people voted for SYRIZA and ANEL, the current government, in order to bring some tens of millions of euros more than smuggling tobacco products - because, in essence, you were almost there entirely - I think your impression is wrong. Because as in some area revenues may or may not be increased, others will certainly be reduced. We told you about great tourist destinations, which could be the engine of the collection of taxes for the state, such as Mykonos, that they present a huge decline in VAT collection in the first few months of 2016 due to the abolition of the reduced rate. You've given it to papers. If you disprove the articles, we'll expect you to give us the evidence, otherwise you're evading. But, Minister, the Greek people did not vote for them, they voted for you for the monstrous lies you have made in a way which led to the Greek people voting. Mr. Nikoloudis had set the Greek people 2.5 billion on the Lagard list. My fellow Members, and particularly our parliamentary representative in particular, have said to you here that all the work - and he has told you in detail and in detail - was done by the previous government. What are your results? A few more checks and a few revenues from the 2014 Lagard pre-treatment? You told us about the Borgians list. You told us that you had signed a deal with the Land of Rhineland-Westphalia, you told us that you would send tax collector for seminars in the bad Germans, you told us... you told us... in theory everything. For how many administrative fines and how many of them you collected in money, you didn't tell us anything. You are still in preheating and in the process - so this eternal - that does not work. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Minister, you told us about the fifty-four thousand foreign transfers over 100 thousand euros after 2010, which the previous government has completed the whole process, the banks provided the evidence. What exactly results have you brought, which of this money is justified and which is not, where have the checks arrived? Because here the preparation - and on this issue - was done, ready work you found. So what are the results? And I characterized them very graciously, Minister, in relation to the objectives and affliction in relation to what you promised the Greek people. We are not asking you to tell us what the previous governments have done. We are asking you here today - and this is addressed to our co-chairmen - to tell us what you are doing. What the previous governments have done is the Greek people know and to some extent it has been decided, because the rest has to do with your propaganda and with your promises about the decisions of the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u128	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u129	I shall conclude, Mr President. All this, therefore, proves that in this matter the SYRIZA Government is confined to propaganda, communication and words. The results are indeed of poor, minor importance in individual sectors. In the key areas that we are discussing today, you have no answers to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-four students and students and two fellow professors from the 1st Municipal School of Agios Pavlos Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at least remaining, although I am an ex-parliamentary, I respect Parliament's institutions and the procedure. I read the Rules of Procedure. Article 135(5) states: 'The debate on questions is limited solely to the subject referred to in the text of the question and is completed within a meeting. The debate on any other subject, similar or relevant to the question of question, is not allowed...» etc. So while we came here and responded as a Ministry of Finance with information on the current question and at first and then listened to the same arguments, that is, what we were talking about in the election, etc. On what you're asking, do you have any arguments? Because we brought evidence and you have to answer it. In 2014 with 2015, were fewer or more controls carried out? The evidence proves that, not Alexiadis, the GSP and IMO data. Then there was another fact. From parliamentarians with experience and a story on the subject of the place, I would expect another tactic. However, the Minutes of the House and trying to invoke a phrase that was a phrase on the tax history of the place and want to link it to what is now being done. Let us respect fundamentally the rules of democratic dialogue and let us not try to impress or throw a cheetah. I shall neither speak personally nor say anything else. I will say, however, that here there is a series of falsifications of the Ministry of Finance. If someone who didn't, I'd say, "he doesn't know", because things have been heard that I won't even answer. But when politicians do it, I don't understand why they do it. I'm going to testify in the minutes for the paintings I've happened to have with me. It's come back. I'll give you the return tables, which are related to the tax administration, no more refunds. If we compare 2014, 2015 and 2016, it appears that in 2016 we do not do what has been done in the past, get phone calls and say "to keep a little backwards," to show more results: In January, the target was EUR 346 million. EUR 296 million has been returned. The February target was EUR 243 million. 248m euros have been returned. It was EUR 184 million in March, 218 million was returned. It was EUR 143 million the target in April, EUR 216 million was returned. It was EUR 162 million the target in May, EUR 228 million returned. We have reached 40% on the returns, precisely because we do not want to do the same accounting and technical tricks that some have done in the past, to show otherwise. And you're telling us about the returns? Regarding outstanding debts to the State. I've filed this painting and I don't know how many times. Finally, please today is the last time I testify to him. Look at him. Current debts in 2013 and 2014: You increased them in the year of the success story, the differences - that is, what increases - per month were 58%. In 2014 to 2015 the sum of monthly changes per month was -5.52%. Is that the success story? Because you're still talking about time, I'm going to tell you the following: In January 2014 it was EUR 1,068.000.000, in January 2015 it was EUR 800 million, in February 2014 it was EUR 659,000, in February 2016 it was EUR 390 million, in March 2014 it was EUR 488 million, in March 2016 it was EUR 218 million, in April 2014 it was EUR 766 million, in April 2016 it was EUR 830 million, of which 524 million is a refund from a State Aid Unit. It has nothing to do with the tax procedure. What does that mean? That we're going better or worse on the matter of returns and delays? You talked about the revenue later. I just happened to have the painting with me again. And I will present the table to you: ‘Ministry of Finance, General Secretariat of Public Revenue, Directorate of Receipts’: The five-month goal is 17.657 and what is really 18.345, or 4.33% above the target. What do you call that, failure or success? I am tabling these specific data so that you can be informed and asked not to go back to this matter. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Trif Alexiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Finally, I will report the figures in May from the taxes and customs. I'm leaving the accountant's revenues out because it's not about the normal procedure. In 2015 it was 2.524,000, and in May 2016 it was 3,065,000, an increase of 21,43%. You don't call that a failure, not a pitiful result. We do not triumph, we do not say 'what is good'. But it doesn't fit the strategy that tells you some channels and some newspapers to show that things aren't right. ILO: For the first time, an electronic recording of the cases was carried out in the single control system. Why was it not in New Democracy? Why were there closets and drawers with cases where they had not been recorded in the computer system? For the first time we gained online access to banking data with the information exchange system. The IORP has the data within 24 hours, and in the past it wanted at least three months. For the first time, lists were consolidated and cross-checks were carried out. The transfer of the cases from IORP to GFCF was coordinated so as not to lose an hour of control and then proceeded. Finally, what is the New Democracy's proposal for the ILO? Let me understand, is it what New Democracy's proposal started before the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, the one it voted on with Mr.4336 or anything else? And because you claim elections, you claim the government - although it will take a long time and you will have a long time to get ready - say, what do you propose? What you did, what you voted on or something? There is also one argument you are saying here: 'If you were successful in tax revenue, why did you increase taxes'? Excuse me, that we had a negotiation - and a tough negotiation - did you understand that? If we did not have these results at the end of 2015, and if we did not have these results in 2016, why it is not easy to increase traffic charges by EUR 8 million, when you reduced them - because when you increase this, you have the possibility of taking some measures and reducing others - nor of increasing by 100 million to one, by 150 million to the other and by 80 million to the other, because if you do not have these, you must take measures. But here, from you, there's a phrase and a terminology. You take Mr Nikoloudis' statements and you come here to say: 'Why did you not get what Mr Nikolaoudis said?' I reverse the question: What have you been doing for so long in the government? New Democracy - PASOK and strains from the river were in the government. You are not a party, which is now claiming for the first time...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u132	What strains from the river?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u133	What strains from the river? Anybody, Mr. Theochari, do you know him? He left a brilliant story in the Treasury before he came...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u134	He's an independent MP now!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u135	Yes, but, if you'll excuse me, they're absent from the Chamber and they're inappropriate to what I'm doing, but because you're asking me, I'm answering you. There's no meaning of personal assault, just to know what we're saying. So when we have this logic here, why didn't you do these things to get those taxes? For either you were completely useless and incompetent and while you had to catch some billions, you did not catch them or have taken the left measure, which were left by some leaving Koumoundourou and every time you say to us: "What were you electionally, what did you do now?" But the people remember what you were doing in the election, which is why they shot you from the government. And as long as you don't get out...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u136	Mr. Nicoludis what did he say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u137	As long as you don't come out and say what you're going to do as a government, the people know very well that you'll do much worse than what's happening now. And because sometimes you're trying to falsify and falsify what I'm saying, I have no problem. I've eaten so black, I've eaten so much misinformation. "The wet is not afraid of rain," so say what you want. I did not say the word "we do not have an obligation to maintain the ENPI". I said in particular: ‘L.4336 commits us to having in 2016 a tax that will have a collectivity of 2,65. We are not committed to having ENVY - in the sense of this law. We negotiated, we were unable to change the law now, and so unfortunately we have HISPIA again, but with a collectivity of 2,65. On the issue of the objective values of sharing a burden of 300 million, we did so that six million would pay the same or less, and six hundred thousand would be charged more or less. So don't falsify, and don't try to put it another way. Lagard list. Mercy! You're trying to compare the Lagard list to the Boyarns list. First of all, we don't do what you guys were up to, that is, bringing German auditors to Greece to carry out checks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u138	Become the same Germans!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u139	...something the Germans themselves, the tax and their trade unions reacted to. We made a deal and send Greek tax collector to be trained in their systems in Germany. Is that bad?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u140	Did you forget?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u141	And it has to do with each other? As far as the Lagard list is concerned, what you're talking about...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u142	Minister, please shorten up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u143	I'm short, but I'm asking for your tolerance. I'll be back in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u144	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u145	Don't interrupt, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u146	Lagard list: two issues. What were you doing in 2012 until 2013? How you organised so that this check did not lead to limitations, because you knew that it was being filed. But what did you do? You made political speeches on the Lagard list, about which the place was plunged.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u147	Minister, do you have proof of this? Bring proof!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u148	Of course I have proof. I have a law that was passed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u149	Don't interrupt, Mr. Stamatis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u150	Either bring evidence or you are a common slander. Shame on you! You can't fly mud!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u151	I have a law that was passed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u152	Mr. Stopatis, nothing is recorded. In his denunciation, Mr Stavros may speak of the question you put. Minister, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u153	I have a law, I have proof of political intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u154	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u155	Mr. Stopatis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u156	Mr. Stopatis, I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u157	Mr. Stamatis, nothing of what you said is recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u158	I have a law passed by the Greek Parliament in 2015, which talks about a long history of political interventions in tax administration. I imagine he didn't mean we were interfering with what is going to happen to their Prime Minister, alpha and beta.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u159	Laws are never political intervention. Laws are passed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u160	Because our friends and executives aren't in control. But I'm closing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u161	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u162	As far as I'm concerned...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u163	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u164	Three things. Because the other challenge was heard "what you are doing on SYRIZA and bring a 2015 case that started auditing the CIFF and finished", to tell you this: I was taken by an indignant worker - because these results are those of the tax services workers, they are not Alexiades, who is trying to coordinate and correct problems, they are pulling the butt and they have the problems - and he said, therefore, that he knows at least twenty-eight cases, which started in 2015 and confirmed 104 million. If you want to ask a question, let's get more evidence. As regards, then, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of comparison 2014 and 2015, I understand the political discomfort of the New Democracy. The evidence we brought is specific and proves what we did. I'm smuggling fuel and I'm just closing up with it. You're telling us about delays. I first said in an interview, and now I'm saying it. I am primarily responsible for the delays that are taking place in the Ministry of Finance and we need to run much faster, and we need to bring those laws, the institutional framework, the mechanisms, so that we can catch the tax evasion so that we can implement what we said in 4334, see VAT rates again, see what is happening on the islands, see how we can deal with all these problems, because we will deal with them. But is that another reason why the New Democracy should come here, which, having established such a good institutional framework, so good law, why would it not go ahead with their implementation? Why didn't he go ahead with the adoption of ministerial decisions? Why didn't he go through data crossings of the input-output system and left us a software that is inappropriate and now we need to make new software to cross them? But we know very well where your employment was mainly in this area. Because we, the gentlemen of the New Democracy, are not going to bring to Parliament a million triangular taxes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Minister. Mr Stakoras has the floor for his denunciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u166	Mr Minister, if you have elementary sensitivity, you have an amendment and I shall vote for it myself. You'll say names!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u167	Please, be quiet. Mr. Stamatis, nothing of what you're saying is recorded. Mr Stavura, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u168	Minister, today - something that is not customary - you have received a press release as the Ministry of Finance, saying that you will come to the House to give concrete answers. None of your colleagues have done that over time. It's self-evident. We assumed you'd have answers. Not only do you have answers but you have made general references to both your dentistry and the spiral of consciences. But I have one question. When in your prototype you admit that the previous government took the lists to the financial prosecutor, how is it possible in your dentistry to say that the same government intervened with the financial prosecutors? Contradictory, isn't it? On the one hand, you say that the previous government went all the lists in 2012 - in writing and orally you say it - and then you say that interventions are being made, occasionally in your second language. Because something you did at the end for provisions, was there anything in the multi-brand plan for the Competition Committee? Was there anything about the taxes on the OPCW that was changed by the Opposition? I'm saying now. You know, much better. One more thing. One had said in 2013 that those who increase taxes are irrelevant, incompetent and dangerous. Does that person remind you of anything? It's you. I'm saying that, so you don't say that we're distorting consciences. You said so. You want me to get you the list of taxes you put in? I would be happy to hear it, but my colleagues have mentioned it. You said it was a great success and it was very difficult to negotiate. But I'm sorry. Didn't we save 20 billion meters? We have not reduced budgetary targets and have we saved twenty billion? Why have the measures been imposed after we have saved twenty billion? Wasn't that a big success? The truth is that the economy has returned to recession and that is why you are forced to take five times more measures than the budgetary gap that existed in order to achieve much lower budgetary targets. That's the truth. While the previous government has reduced VAT on the focus - I will repeat it all the time - you increase it. But I'm sorry, aren't we going better? Are the objectives not met? Aren't the targets lower? Lower targets doesn't that mean less measures? Why did you increase the VAT on the catering? Why did you increase the excise duty on heating oil? Why did you increase insurance contributions? Why are you giving a lower social dividend? Why increase the extraordinary solidarity levy? Why all this, since it was a great success to reduce the budgetary targets? Because quite simply - I repeat - the country has returned to the recession and this has affected the return of measures. You said some channels tell us to say some things, and we'll see you here, and we're in danger. I'm sorry. Has the country not returned to the recession and remained in recession for three quarters? You have announced it. I'm sorry. Didn't business expectations get worse? Is consumer confidence not at the lowest level since 2012? The OPE announced it. Has the tax debts of individuals to the State not been increased? They were swollen. Shall we agree on the basics? They were swollen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u169	Do you remember a few who fell? Since the birth of the Greek state, have they ever been reduced?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u170	I'll answer that, too, because you've spoken to an interview. Therefore, the state's dues to the private sector were increased to agree on certain things. So I am not discussing the state's overdue debts to the private sector. They also launched a question of whether they were paid in 2017. The gross capital formation, the exports of goods and services, the credit contract, the bank’s portfolio quality, construction, wholesale and retail trade, all of these indicators bring them out the channels and the Civic Opposition? You announce to them, the Treasury and everyone is more unfavourable than they were in 2014. Therefore, comparison 2014 to 2015 does not favour you. You said the previous government wanted to cover various criminal products. I will repeat and repeat in the Minutes the answer given to me by your other colleague, the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Juliarakis. You know, the previous government, without the troika asking it - and I know it very well - opened an account with the Bank of Greece, in which it financed actions for social purposes with funds available from criminal products. On the basis of Mr Juliarakis' answer to a question I tabled, the previous government raised EUR 34.3 million and made it all available - for an answer to Mr Juliarakis - to education, health and social solidarity. How much did you get? Four and three, two. This is about will. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We're returning February 10, 2015. Mr Nikoloudis did not say 2.5 billion, he said at least 2.5 billion to be absolutely precise. Where's the 2.5 billion? On the other page he said 1 billion euros of tobacco. Where is the EUR 1 billion? Mr. Mardas was saying two more billion euros from the smuggling of fuel. Where are these amounts?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u171	He didn't say right away. A government is for four years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u172	He said straight away. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its Three things must apply. Either you have to admit that you have grown illusions and you have lied or you have to say that it is not easy to achieve the goal and it takes more work to deal with time-consuming and cross-border problems - and I think that is true - or you are not able to collect them. There can be no such thing as one of these three. You said that tax revenue this year is going better. Right? Your results are here. In the implementation of a government budget, the tax revenues for a quarter are less than EUR 207 million. You're not telling me, have you read the evidence you're filing? The results of the state budget implementation are less than EUR 207 million. I'm filing it in the Minutes. You said something about overdue debts. Minister, please be very precise. Have you seen the evidence? There are 60% overdue tax liabilities. Punctuals! With regard to the state calculation report, the Ministry, the General Accounting Office of the State - I suppose you're cooperating - on page 23 shows that the outstanding tax reimbursements in 2014 were EUR 755 million. In December 2015, it was EUR 1,287 billion, while in April 2016 it was EUR 1,182 billion. We left them at EUR 755 million and you've gone EUR 1,182 billion. There are 60% of outstanding tax reimbursements. They are the official results of the general government. Please read the evidence and get in touch. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You said that tax refunds this year went better than they did last year. Read your results again. Tax refunds in 2015 were EUR 2,922 billion, while in 2014, they were EUR 3,370 billion. I've learned in my life that 3,370 is bigger than 2,922 and I know how to read.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u173	Mr. Stavura, should we close, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u174	You triumphed, however, that revenues generally went a little better in 2015 than in 2014. But you forgot something and I put it in the Minutes to remember it, because you have forgotten it. You think the measures are just EUR 5.4 billion. You have imposed EUR 1 billion new tax measures in 2015 and with EUR 1 billion more tax measures in 2015 - which were not in 2014 - you still failed. I table your budget with measures EUR 1 billion tax increase in 2015. That's the truth. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I heard something - and you say it often - that nothing has happened in the past to reduce rents. I am sorry, but this party did not vote for the initiative we took in 2012. Law 4081/2012 FEK I 184/27-9-2012 introduced horizontal reductions in public expenditure for the operation of the political administration of the country by reducing the rents of building facilities by Greek public institutions, from 10% to 25%. There's been a horizontal cut in everyone. So we started governance in 2012, because some people said we did nothing about this. Finally - and I shall end in a minute, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance - I will repeat what you have said in your interview and I will be perfectly precise. You said in October that you cannot change much in the low and middle incomes by taxing them, otherwise 80 billion euros will be uploaded to EUR 85 to EUR 90 billion. Are we at EUR 87 billion now? So it goes on to say that you taxed middle and low incomes. We'll agree. Unless you said wrong in the interview, so you have to confess. Once we have reached EUR 87 billion today, which is within EUR 85 to EUR 90 billion and you said that if we tax medium and low incomes we will go to EUR 85 to EUR 90 billion, you must admit that you have overtaxed it. That's the truth. I testify for the third time your interview. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So, in conclusion, we as a New Democracy will support all the Government's initiatives in the direction of strengthening and independent tax administration and tax-independence. We have already done so in the recent multi-project. We SYRIZA of 'no to everything' will not be. We weren't, and we're gonna be. But the cost of governance SYRIZA - ANEL is huge for both the country and its economy. This cost - I stress - is not just about the field of the economy, which you continue to wander by sinking into the staircase. It runs the entire range of public life with constant statements by government officials, who are in direct contrast with what they themselves voted a few days ago, a few hours ago, even talking about criminal policies and anti-constitutional decisions, with acts of government officials, which constantly hamper the implementation of structural changes and the destabilizations...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u175	Mr. Stavura, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u176	...with unsatisfactory statements of the government's majority that betray cynicism and hatred, which attempt to divide society, with initiatives of government officials who are allergenic to essential concepts of state functioning, such as independence and integrity, through acts and omissions of government officials who have visible costs in health, education, public security, immigration.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u177	And that's what to close, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u178	In short, SYRIZA fails to lead the country successfully to its historic course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u179	Minister, do you want the floor? You're entitled to tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u180	I'm not gonna need the 11 minutes Mr. Staruras took. I'll be much shorter. Besides, I think we all understood. The New Democracy today tried to prove something. It had, as a tool and as an argument, the same argument that lost the three elections. I say we do this again, because this is the best conversation. They haven't figured out that these elections are over. It's not good to come back with the same arguments and the same things. You tried to say something. You did not substantiate it and fully substantiate what the government does. I do not need to, Mr Stakoura, re-submit the same things. In any case, this data dispute will continue. We've posted the evidence to the Treasury. We'll put them up again. You'll tell your evidence too. Let me just remind you that I proposed avoiding all this with a debate in the Committee on Economic Affairs with all the facts and data. You didn't want to. You have asked for this debate to be held on the topical and urgent question. I understand why you disagree and object even to us getting a press release. I don't understand. We made a press release and said: "Today Monday, the New Democracy's New Democracy's topical question will be discussed, etc.... All relevant information on this subject will be submitted during the debate.' What scared you of this thing? We wanted people to know, to watch, to understand. We didn't want them to get the information from some site and some others that they're going to say tomorrow, those things they have to say. The important thing is that we remain in our views. We do not think that increasing taxes is a solution and a panacea. We don't think so. We believe that tax increases are a forced option. It's not a political choice. It is a political necessity. That's why we're doing it. But as far as the increase in taxes is concerned, I would remind you that it is not your ideology, which you do not want to increase taxes, that, in the most serious of citizens' rights, the right to property, you received, before the memorandum, the property taxes at around 600 million, and the ENPIA that you left had attested 3.3 billion. Acknowledgement, not collectibility. So do not teach us about these issues. Today's procedure in Parliament has shown that in 2015 compared to 2014, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government made more controls, hit tax evasion more, collected more taxes. That's what hurts you. But this will be much more to know at the end of 2016.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u181	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u182	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u183	Wait a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u184	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u185	Tritology, Mr. President? I'm a parliamentary representative, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u186	No, you don't have the right, Mr. Balaura. [[Noise - protests]] Sit down. I don't understand. Sit down, unless you want to leave. Learn the Rules first and then object. It is entitled to tritology. Because the Minister personally referred, he asked for the floor for a minute. Learn the Rules of Procedure and leave them smart. Let's be okay!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u187	The meeting shall be closed after the Minister's trilogy. Then, Minister, you must also speak for the fourth time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u188	You want to hear? "The questionable parliamentary representative of each party has a right and a trilogy" whether you like it or not. That's the Rules of Procedure. Mr Stagiras has complicated his time in his dentistry, but because the Minister referred to something, he has asked for the floor for a minute. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Well, let go of these now. Mr Stavoura, you have the floor for a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u189	Look, I wouldn't take the floor if you didn't use a verb. You said this situation, in 2015, hurts the Civic Opposition. Minister, let's make something clear: society hurts. Your actions and omissions in society hurt. The EUR 9.5 million measures you imposed are inspiration, ownership and execution.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u190	You've done it. You don't convince anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u191	Whether we are convinced or not, you will allow me to judge each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u192	Even those who signed the question didn't come here to hear you! For God's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u193	May I finish, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u194	Please don't interrupt. Come on, Mr. Stakoura. Expand your thinking soon, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u195	Therefore, from your measures Greek society is suffering. Secondly, I told you again something. In 2014, taxes fell? Some people who fell down. Can you tell me a tax that you reduced? Tell me a tax which you have reduced.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u196	The tax rate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u197	Because of the proud negotiation, budgetary targets have been reduced. So the measures have been reduced, too. Can you tell me one thing? Not even one! On the contrary, you increased taxes. I repeat, the taxes - as most members of the Ministerial Council have admitted - are your inspiration, ownership and execution. They're your taxes. Something about the EMCDDA: You may not have a picture of the history, because you have remained in your statement that "we have no commitment to the EMCDDA in 2016". I repeat. I've filed it in the Minutes. That's what you said, and then you put it in perfection. Let us be clear. As far as the past is concerned, the repeal of the EMCDDA took place in two phases and the introduction of a property tax, HICP in 2014 was 30% lower than the 2012 level, resulting in more than 90% of the debtors paying less than 500 euros. You have received this, and not only have you kept it, but you have also increased it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Mr. Stakoura. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Monday 4 April 2016, Tuesday 12 April 2016, Thursday 14 April 2016, Monday 18 April 2016, Wednesday 20 April 2016, have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u199	The minutes of Monday 4 April 2016, Tuesday 12 April 2016, Thursday 14 April 2016, Monday 18 April 2016 and Wednesday 20 April 2016 were validated. The debate on the number 26/20/18-4-2016 topical question concerning the functioning of the tax administration and the effectiveness of tax controls and mechanisms for limiting tax evasion is hereby concluded. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-13-S1-commons.u200	With the consent of the House at 21.12' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday 14 June 2016 at 18.00, on the subject of the House's legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
