ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good evening, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS We will give the floor to Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos from PASOK for a minute in order to make an observation he has to make. Here, Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Look, now I'm talking to you representing the institution of this House. For seven weeks, Mr. Tsakalotos' answer has been postponed to my question about the Greek. As you know from the procedure, when Mr Tsakalotos does not come in the first time, then there is a consultation between the competent Parliament and the Minister to give a date. Last week, Mr. Chakalotos had to come here and he didn't come. After two hours he interviewed ERT. I'll say it again. He didn't come to the meeting this afternoon, and after two hours he interviewed ERT. Indeed, the day before yesterday when he was here in the vote, I asked him in front of my colleagues and said, 'But why don't you come?' He says, "Look at me, I've put you on Monday, but on Monday I have Eurogroup". I mean, he's making fun of us all together. I want you to transfer that. He told us last week that he contacted Parliament to put the question on Monday that he knew he would have Eurogroup. Hey, the lies have their limits, Mr. President! I would ask you very much to speak with the President of Parliament, with the government. What is happening with Mr Tsakalotos is unacceptable. I think that it does not spit on me personally, but on the institution of the House, and first of all on the President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u3	I just want to inform you that specifically mentioned the Minister in question, but in general there is a problem with the questions. On the initiative of Mr Voutsi - I think next week - the Committee on the Rules of Procedure for Part I of the Rules of Procedure, which includes these cases, with a view to the end of September - the beginning of October, before the other period begins, will start to have made some decisions so that we can deal with such cases. I'm telling you that as an update. There was a debate in the Conference of Presidents and the decision was unanimous. It was also a proposal from the President of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, we are starting with at least two ministers who are consistent. The seventh question will be discussed under number 1088/4-7-2016, the first question of the Athens Parliamentary I of the Union of Centrals Mr Marios Georgiadis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the conclusion of individual contracts for the rental of work with centralised, decentralised and all services of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, as well as of the legal persons under public law and private law supervised by the Ministry. In the timely question, Mr Georgios Katrugalos will answer. Here, Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, too, to the Minister who is here. It confirms that it was a coma the first time. Thank you very much for being here consistent to answer my question. First of all, I understand the situation with regard to private employees and the thought behind it in terms of preservation and cleanliness, that in the private sector wages may be low, hours are exhaustive and, more generally, the requirements are quite high. Ethics, that is, your thoughts are not on the wrong track. However, as well as being well-meaning - how much rather opposition - you do not allow him to think that you are operating in the direction of the customer state and of serving the interests of your prolongation and not clearly in terms of the public interest. Even if that's not the case, I'll be very happy to disprove me with the evidence that you're likely to produce. With your amendment, the public will conclude employment contracts with those who work as private employees in the care and cleaning company for the needs of the Ministry of Labour. We are talking about a range of private individuals who work in centralised and decentralised services of the Ministry, as well as public and private law entities directly dependent on the state. These private employees will now become employees and will be paid as a newly recruited civil servant, including employers' contributions. In other words, we are talking about a direct burden on the state budget. Your arguments of this choice and proposal are based on two main axes on the basis of your explanatory statement. Firstly, it will cost less to the public that the recruitment of these natural persons compared to what the state paid to external bodies - the so-called outsourcing - and, secondly, you say that these people are paid low wages and that the social sensitivity of the state requires that they be recruited to upgrade wages. We would like to ask how it is possible to support the interests of the State and those of the recruitments in question at the moment, you are not presenting any evidence of the economic situation. The report by the General Accounting Office of the State, in which it is compulsory to exist and be included in the amendment, contains a general reference to costs which will be borne by the State budget. There is no reference to the exact cost of this choice and, in addition, there is no reference to the total cost of the contracts in force with private storage and cleaning entities. In order not to abuse more time, I move on to the two questions you have and to your hands: Why has the amendment not been incorporated into a report from the General Accounting Office of the State - as evidence - or even other economic evidence, such as individual contracts wages, employers' contributions, number of individual contracts, average gross wage, etc., from which the economic benefit invoked by you by this amendment for the State, even in view of the fact that the restoration of social justice you are referring to seems by definition incompatible with the savings of public money?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u5	Finish, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u6	Secondly, the contested amendment is removed from the established public policy in recent years, in which the award of similar services to the private sector ensures a higher level of services at a significantly lower cost. Subsequently, does this amendment mark a'swap change', promoting similar treatment for other services entrusted to the private sector? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u7	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Before answering the question by my colleague, allow me to answer on behalf of the Government the previous objections to the detriment of the Minister of Finance. As you know, today he is in the Eurogroup and in general, he is the most assured Minister of Government, in terms of obligation, to be present in the negotiations. As is the system of topical questions, so the aborted returns with a draw, it is not easy to plan that Mr Constantinople invoked. I would like to confirm the particular importance the government attaches to parliamentary control. It appears from cases where the Prime Minister himself is present in relation to the situation in the past, and I would like to say that we will try to smooth down, of course, by consensus whenever there are such objective obstacles in the future. Mr Colleague, Mr Georgiadis, thank you for your question and for the style you have developed. I think that you have corrected by your oral development certain issues of misinterpretation of the provision in the text of the question. That is to say, in the written version of our amendment, you have called on us because the report of the General Accounting Office had not been incorporated. You explained it in the oral development that you considered it to be more thorough and more specific. Nevertheless, there is a similar report, otherwise the amendment would be unconstitutional. It's among the documents I'm about to submit. I think, however, that the deepest misunderstanding is that you consider it to be recruitment. These are project contracts and, indeed, works contracts for persons who have not been recruited by our own government, but by previous governments. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] I can take a little time, Mr President, because I think that if this matter is explained, it will seem that there is nothing wrong in the public interest. What, then, does this amendment provide for? Until we can regulate more generally, in a comprehensive way, the issue of cleansing and preservation in the public sector, we have predicted that, instead of concluding contracts with intermediaries - cleansing companies or security companies - we should be able to make direct use of the staff who were employed by individual works contracts. Therefore, precisely because we do not have a new selection procedure on our part of this staff, but we welcome the staff we have received, there is no question of 'clientity', unless we consider ourselves serving the 'clients' of the previous governments. On the question of costs, according to the figures I will submit to you, while we were paying for seven employees of EUR 7,671 a month, in the new way we will pay EUR 6,407, which is explained in a very simple way: we are paying the employees directly and so there is no company's interim profit. In any case, they did not work for their mother’s soul, work to gain, and in circumstances that you know both in cleaning and in storage are peculiar. It is not all cases like the cases that led to Mrs Kuneva's 'vitriolism'. But we know from many reports by the Court of Auditors, the Citizens' Counselor, that it is one of those companies that less than others observe legality. We have therefore tried to serve the public interest, having in mind and these particular people who are not at all high-wage, saving money from the public fund and trying to combine something that I do not think is incompatible - and I think it should not be seen to you too - social justice with savings in public money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u9	However, Minister, before I give the floor to Mr Georgiadis, because similar things have been said to me by your fellow Member, Mr Toskas, once again, I must tell you that Mr Voutsis has presented us with information at the Conference of Presidents. While in previous periods the ministers came to 75%, they are now under 50%. I therefore appreciate your willingness to cover your colleagues, but the situation is not good. Here, Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u10	Minister, I would be happy to see the analysis you will present to us and hope that it will be thorough and in every detail. However, I should like to begin with what you said that, although the explanatory statement from the General Accounting Office of the State exists in the bill, the first question covers it, because it calls for detailed information - so you may have in fact some law, but in the question there was in substance this. What we would like to see is how much this payroll of these individual contracts will cost the state - you are right to say that they are individual contracts, but in fact you know that individual contracts lead to further appointment - and the contributions paid, employers' contributions. How many people will be hired? Tell us the number of people. If it's in evidence, we'll study them and we'll see. I have to ask. What's their average gross salary? What is the overall level of contracts already in existence for safekeeping and cleanliness, and are they related to private operators? How can you ensure that the quality of the services provided is the same, bearing in mind that you are going to bypass the established private companies, because they are well or badly qualified and in the monitoring of the services we receive, which, as I have rightly said, are supervised, and have the relevant know-how. Have you calculated the cost of cleaning materials? It is a cost which in the current contract is being paid, and at the moment you will have to go into a process of looking for offers and supplies for cleaning material. Since you show this sensitivity to private cleansing and storage employees associated with the Ministry of Labour, should we wait for the recruitment to the public and other private employees, who are currently employed by private companies, who provide services or products to the public? Have you studied the effects on the private labour market of this energy on you? For example, I will mention the enclosures that will enter the companies from which you will take the officials to make individual contracts with the public. Since you are claiming that a major reason for public recruitment is the low pay in the private sector, why do you not equal wages in the two sectors and prefer to create two-speed citizens right now, as we know they exist? On the basis of ELSTAT's data, the average civil servant is paid 30% more than the average private employee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u11	Mr Minister, if you would like, please give an answer, why do we not know how to answer that question: The specific employees who will be hired, for example by a hospital, will, after five years, resort to a court of law who will say that they cover fixed and continuous needs and become indefinitely out of the ALP list?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, I am replying directly to your question, because I think it also covers my colleague's reasoning that there is a risk that these contracts will be converted into permanent contracts of indefinite duration, even though they end automatically, according to the law, at the end of 2017. They're contracts for a year and a half. As you know, Mr President, this has been completely excluded since the 2001 review, since these contracts have been drawn up after the completion of the review. There is therefore no case of permanentisation in the sense of the conversion of a fixed-term contract or work into an indefinite post-2001 contract. This also applies to a large group of officials, which we of the previous governments have welcomed, who indeed seem to meet standing and constant needs. So what we have answered them is that their contracts cannot be converted. All we can do is when the corresponding positions from the ADP are declared, as must be the case, to recognise this particular service as a special service, so that these people who were hostages of the previous situations - to say things by their name, the client system - can at least have the recognition of their pre-service. As far as this regulation is concerned, the documents I make on the Minutes show the total number of employees - who are seven - in the analytical situation of basic wages, employers' contributions, workers' contributions, etc. The final amount I mentioned is exactly the amount that includes all individual reservations. I also submit for the minutes and the contract of the company, from which the comparison is made directly. [[At this point, the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr Georgios Katrugalos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And now I come to the other issues, which are a lot and which are raised in reasonable terms. I said before that, by its nature, it is a temporary arrangement. I - when I was at the Ministry of Administrative Reform - but now the current Deputy Minister for the Interior is seeking to resolve the issue of cleaning in the public sector in a more comprehensive way. And I'm explaining what I mean. In cleansing there are a number of positions, such as a disposable driver, which require a specialization. Such positions must therefore be permanent. So this is something that we need to take into account in future programming, so that we can plan them and ensure that these people do not go to another place by transfer, as usual. Other positions may be covered by fixed-term contracts. Other contracts, however, must be unlimited. So all these issues are complicated, because they are complex and the needs of the public. For example, otherwise he's in a hospital. There may indeed be a higher percentage of permanent staff, due to the special needs of a hospital’s cleaning. Otherwise, it is also in schools where the school year lasts differently. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] That is precisely because of this complexity of the situation, we have not yet made general arrangements. I had called on the workers' unions to participate in this debate, as did the workers' unions with fixed-term contracts, which are indeed in a more unfavourable working situation. So when this consultation is completed, we will be able to table a comprehensive proposal covering all these different dimensions of the problem. What we tried to do until then was keep cleaners and guarders, precisely because we haven't hired them. Therefore, we cannot be accused of wanting to protect our own people in terms of economics that are better than those we are facing now, until we are able to deal with the whole issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, before we enter the second group which contains four questions, which will be answered by Minister Nikolaos Toskas, I would like to make a statement to this House. The Ministers for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Economic and Tourism, Foreign Affairs, Work, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Home and Administrative Reconstruction and Economics, have today tabled, 11-7-2016, draft law on cybercrime in Europe and its Additional Protocol on the criminalisation of acts of racist and xenophobic nature, perpetrated by computer systems - Transfer to the Greek people of Directive 2013/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on attacks on information systems and replacing Council Framework Decision 2005/222/JHA, arrangements for judicial and anti-crime policy and other provisions. The draft law shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. We are now entering the second question under number 1085/4-2016 of the First Cycle of the Member of the Eotolokarnania Parliamentary of the New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Karagounis to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on security issues in the complex of the former School of Hope. Here, Mr. Karaguni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the purpose of this question today - let me say - is to strike the alarm. And of course it has to do - as the President has said - with the question of the security of the courts, not only on the EPP road but, in general, with the courts in the country and, of course, with specialization in the EPP, because there is a very big problem there. Let me say that I am doing this, because you know what is happening in Greece, there is a problem, there is a tragic event, we do nothing to prevent and then we run to heal things that, unfortunately, could have been very easy to predict and prepared. I would remind you that in October 2012 a woman shot in the middle of Building 9 at the School of Hope and killed a three-year-old and injured a twenty-five-year-old. I had lived it because I was at the Justice Department at the time. Then, of course, the world was shocked because it happened in Building 9. Mostly, however, the problem that existed is how the gun went through the courts. And then we all wondered. In other words, there was a huge problem. At that time we had drawn up a plan to deal with this whole situation with very specific actions - we will explain it later - but I fear that nothing has happened since then, Minister. And the problem remains very great, because the functioning of the courts is difficult, but of course in the courts, unfortunately, we have constant incidents of attacks by hoodlers and anti-powered ones. Recently, I can only remind you that there was a molotov attack on Buildings 7 and 11 on Plenipotentiary. And the question remains. What are you doing to deal with this situation? Because what is stated by the courts and by the judicial officers and by the judges is that the guard is incomplete. The police are limited, there are antiquated - and we will say other things about it - technical and technological security measures, incomplete electricity. And the question is what measures you will take, because, Minister, I hope that the unbaptised Exarchates which is near the Plenipotentiary will not turn into an unbaptized court. I expect you to give me the answers and what you are going to do about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u15	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, Mr Karagunis, the police are taking all the steps they need to secure the area of the courts and, in particular, the Athens Court of First Instance, and the Court of Appeal and the Ice Arrow. In particular, for the area's insurance and the protection of the premises of the Athens Court of First Instance, there are forty police officers and fifteen other police officers available to handle the safety equipment at its entrances. For the Athens Court of Appeal, forty other policemen and twenty two policemen are available to police the wider region. In addition, nine police officers at the Court of Appeal for the operation of security equipment. This force is sufficient. When there are problems - like what you mentioned - there are of course forces of order and order measures to strengthen existing police forces. From that point on, we cannot go to reasonable oversecurity of an area, because what you understand will be at the expense of the other areas in the Athens area. But we do what is predicted. We have called and we are in cooperation with the three-member Management Board of the Athens Court of First Instance and the Department of the Athens Court of Appeal to improve weaknesses in security measures and risk management. There is constant cooperation in the case of risk information. As far as the so-called 'abbey' is concerned, I inform you - and I am telling you at the moment in this House - that today in a surgical way - a criminal organisation with members of Albanian nationals and nationals in Exarches, who are involved in the storage, transport and trafficking of drugs, has been dismantled. Large quantities of hashish and cocaine were confiscated. I am announcing this because the business is almost complete at the moment, which - I say again - is done in a quiet and surgical manner and was very effective. Of course this company was not the product of any pressure these days, because both planning and preparation and information, which unfortunately did not exist - there was almost no information in all these years - requires several months. There has been systematic work by the competent authorities, an excellent job has been done by the police, and the results will be announced by the police tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u17	Thank you. Mr. Karaguni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u18	Minister, I cannot congratulate you on this operation you have done for the arrest of the drug dealers. But now you're scratching my wounds. Can I ask you something? You who are general and businessman, you personally as Minister, could you go to Exarcheia and supervise this operation? Is this where Members of Parliament - I ask - can they go for a walk in Exarcheia? There's an exarcheia blockade. And you're personally responsible. The government as a whole is responsible for this. Congratulations on this operation. But can you go do a surveillance of this operation? You can't, Minister. You can't go to Exarchia. The post office there was closed by the constant vandalism. They take the world down from the trolleys and burn the trolleys. And now we're talking about the operation you've been doing? Of course, I should like to congratulate you personally, but also the powers, but what does that say? Do not scrape wounds about Exarches, because there are huge responsibilities, Minister. And unfortunately you haven't done anything about it. On the question of the security of the courts, I would like to say the following. We, I told you, had drawn up a very specific programme. The police are incomplete and you need to be better informed. We had planned, Minister, to enter X-rays so that there could be control over guns going through the courthouse. Do you know that now there's no control? We had predicted that new cameras would be in and replace the old ones. None of this has gone any further. Fortunately, we had sealed the back space of the grove so that there would be no way in. I don't really know what the policing is around - around. What I'm learning and what I'm told is that there is none. I'm also going to propose to you. Thousands of people enter the courts every day. Put a goat on the outside. Come to an agreement with the Justice Department. We've moved on. So, in order to apply for certificates, they do not have to enter the courts. It can be done in a guise outside of them, so make it easier for you too. The effort made at the Court of Appeal must continue in the Peace Court as well as in all the courts of the country. I think, Minister, that there is another issue that you need to see. I think he also states the non-coordination that exists in the courts. It's about the constant phone threats to bombs that everyone goes out and the court stops. Who has the power to evacuate the courthouse? Normally, the police and the officer responsible must have it. You know they're asking the chief if he needs to evacuate? And if he finally digs up a bomb, who's to blame, Minister? Can the supervisor judge whether the courts should be evacuated? Something very simple I'm telling you, which states non-coordination. Look at it, Minister, because we'll have worse things. Something worse will happen and then we won't be able to cure it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u19	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u20	Mr Karaguinis, the question of coordination, which is a matter of constant concern in all areas, will not be avoided. I will not say that everything is well-burned and that there is no need for coordination. You know it. If I'm not mistaken, you've nursed at the Justice Department and you know how these spaces work much better than me. It is an issue which I do not deny must be seen again. There are probably many areas that need cover and need better coordination. But I say again that we cannot go to reasonable over-insurance. We cannot have powers. They are not irresponsible for the powers that will be made available. There is a large number of policemen who cover judges, about four hundred people - we are trying to reduce them, it is an excessive number - and it concerns judges who had tried very old cases. It is a matter of these days that we are considering and decisions will be taken. So it is a matter of coordination all the time. We're trying to improve the situation. From there on, technology is going on and we must see that within a framework of economic potential. Of course, any proposals to improve the system are acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u21	The seventh question, under number 916/27-5-2016, will be discussed in the context of the second question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction on the targeting of Greek citizens from a well-known para-state anti-democratic website. Mr. Panayotus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, all good these days in Exarchia, in the center of Athens, everywhere? We see that there is an intensely destructive mania and murderous mania of various kinds. The common denominator of most of these actions is the indymedia terrorist website, in which all these violations, which occurred and occur in our country, are organised. Most of them are announced at indymedia before, and since we have a "sea" end for them - in quotes, of course, "holy" - then "upload" their achievements in indymedia, as was done with the armed march in Exarches by "Ruvikon", where the state went to justify them that the weapons are not true, they are fake, but they went out and said "no, they are true" and it seems that they confirmed it a few days later with a murder that was done and possibly others. We also have the occupation of the hotel on Acharnon Street, the occupation of the “Dream” Hotel in Exarchia, the attacks made at the Police Department of Exarchies, the vandalism at the metro and electric stations. The most dreadful of all was that a shepherd - because it is - and indeed malicious - gave the evidence, the names of the auditors - of officials, of good or bad civil servants. So he gave the elements of the metro controllers, the STASY, the publicity and they went out through the indymedia website with all the accompanying comments: "Visit them", not of course to say "bravo". They also marked the homes of some controllers with spray. There have also been attacks. All this, I think, would give you a very good walk, if you wanted - because you do not want - so that you can solve this problem. After all, you have the "superior" who records everything. Surely you could have recorded all of this, as at the PASOK offices, after fifteen to twenty attacks on Charilaos Trikoupi, suddenly entered the "superior" and arrested those who were vandalized and burned. I mean, the state knew everything. We ask, Minister, how will the Ministry ensure the safety of the employed auditors of the STASY, and not only of the workers working there, but also of all those targeted on a daily basis by the indymedia website with disastrous results. Why is it still allowed to publish on the Internet this page, which is certainly a terrorist with everything it does, is criminal and surely these people have trampled - to use a very popular word - the entire Criminal Code? Before me was Mr. Karagunis. In 2012 we asked him a corresponding question about indymedia. At that time we had been answered "hairs of pine nuts", "other words to be loved." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u23	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, as far as the safety of the employees of STASY is concerned, I have to say that they ensure daily the operation of the metro and electricity around the sixty-five policemen plus the DIA teams on Fridays - weekends which support these sixty-five people. It's a great police force. Unfortunately, we had to use police force at the subway stations because there were the incidents. From there on, moving on to the second part of the question about indymedia website, I would like to inform you that as you know on the internet it is technically possible to post a number of different issues. They often touch the limits of legality or exceed them. Managers - providers - or managers - administrators - are often outside Greece. The process of identifying those responsible - not the websites - is often difficult. Legislation allows us to block access to gaming sites or to websites related to child pornography. These are as far as indymedia is concerned and the safeguarding of the subway and the ISAP area. It is not all easy to secure the various spaces. It is what I said before that neither reasonable overinsurance can apply nor guard everything. We're doing everything we can. Believe me, there are results and there will be much more in the immediate future.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u25	However, Minister, I have just read a draft law tabled - you too - on offences on websites of another kind. Perhaps it is an opportunity to fill gaps for such websites, that is, if this is called the website. Just threaten and swear! What website is it? Here, Mr. Panayotare, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you said there are sixty-five officers. Of course they are not enough, nor can they keep a huge network of metro, ESAP, ELPAP, buses and all of this. Of course, the day before yesterday that SYRIZA youth had a festival in Maroussi, police officers were many more than those present. I mean, when she wants for some reason, the police can do her job right. And if you ask the officers of the Greek Police, or if you ask the directly involved, the police officers of DIA, you will be told how the problem can be solved within a week. All these problems that afflict society, naturally mock everyone who promises but can do nothing, can be solved within a week. That is what the competent police officers, who are every day on the street, say on the front line of danger. You talked about blocking a website. Let me remind you that in too many state services there is a blockade on the website of the third political power, the Golden Dawn. So to say some things to show that if the system wants to, it can do anything. But it seems that Golden Dawn hurts, the indymedia some suits them. To Mr. Kouzilo, who sits behind me, having put a bomb in his car a month and a half ago, his address is still on the Indymedia website, Minister, just like mine. If you hit my name on the site, it'll get you a lot down. I'll finish the ink on your Pride. I was once targeted and put in the wrong address. I've got someone who knows how to fix the address because they're going to hit and burn someone else's business. You said that it is technically possible to post on an indymedia type website and you cannot do anything about it. Yeah, you can't do anything about it. However, you could either close it or do what you can: urgent investigations and arrest all those who carry out numerous trans-national activities. Very good information and assistance on how indymedia is organised and run, Mr. Minister, you could ask Mr. Skourletis' son, who was led by a group of cocoonmen, who attacked the offices of the third political power, the Golden Dawn and the offices of the MEPs of the Golden Dawn. As a permanent sanctuary of an occupation in Maroussi - illegal, but no one minds - it has taken hundreds of unlawful actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u27	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u28	You know very well that the police have kept the attitude that they have to do with maintaining order. It is not involved and is not interested in the political hue that each place has. He's just trying to keep order. Try Maroussi, too, which you mentioned before. Believe me, you badly mention names because the police tried to prevent conflicts between the different sides.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u29	Now "bad"? When you had us in the handkerchiefs was 'good'?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u30	As far as the words of one another and each other are concerned, they are words that are easy to say, but whoever comes to implement then understands - some should understand beforehand - that it takes time, it needs planning, they need information. All these years the problems in Exarcheia were rusted, wiped under the carpet. There was nothing they said, and now we are trying to make a difference with the difficult situation that has been complicated and created for so many years. Of course, you know that we cannot have either a concentration camp security or a military order in society. We must have a military order in the army and the police that some people don't want. But that's where we're focused. That is where we must and will have security in the rest of society.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u31	Thank you. Series is the tenth under number 1049/27-2016 topical question by MP I Piraeus, New Democracy, Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the incomplete control of forged diplomas in recruitment of the Fire Corps. Mr. Katasfadou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u32	Minister, on 30 March I asked a question on the same subject. The answer the Ministry gave me was a very simple answer and it said that the process is at its final stage. He didn't give us any more clarification. He did not specify to us anything else, nor when will this stage be completed, nor how many false degrees have been found. As you know, the story of the audit of fake diplomas began when in 2011 in the competition under number 3938 of the Fire Corps there were too many fake documents, fake diplomas even "music". The big problem was that there were responsible statements by too many participants who were successful in this contest that said they had finished their military service with the capacity of I1 while they had finished with I2, I3, I4, I5. When too many of those who participated in the competition appealed to the offices of the AACC asking why all this has been done, they did not get any answers and were found to be involved in a story, which unfortunately holds until today. I would like to say to you that this irregularity highlighted it by the Legal Council of the State which has taken a relevant opinion under number 206/2012. In 2014, the current leader of the New Democracy, when he was Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, with a law, Law No.4305/2014, had launched a process for controlling all the diplomas of civil servants. What is available as information is that the four thousand firefighters, which we are discussing for them, the number of those who have been imported with false degrees, irregular documents or false documents is close to six hundred people. Those who are not successful, those who have been rejected by the competition have appealed to the administrative courts. You know, therefore, that this is a process which does not honor the Greek Parliament, does not honor the Greek state, when people who illegally hold a position should not be removed from it by other people who really deserve and justify the documents they bear, to make a struggle of so many years so that they can be justified. I would also like to add to this that by appealing to the administrative courts, you understand that when they are entitled to do so they will also retroactively take all this money in a very difficult economic period for the country. So what I ask you is: When will this competition finally end, this checks on counterfeit documents? Because, as you can see, after five years it is really unfair and shows a picture of a state that really cannot control the mechanisms it governs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u33	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u34	Mr President, Mr Katsafados, I think that it is exactly the essence of this matter that some people are in a hurry to throw others in and take their place. Let's put things in a row. As I will say in the next question, in 2011 there were three competitions, some four thousand firefighters were hired. Of them, in the control of the following documents, they were found around two hundred and fifty false documents. These firemen have been released from this House. Then another audit was carried out by the College of Public Administration Inspectors, found about fifty people, and they had the same fate. And this is the third check following the Joint Ministerial Decision of 2014, which concerns all of these people, about four thousand people, whose documentation needs to be checked. And when we say the documents, we mean whatever degrees they have, the licenses to drive motorcycles, the car, whatever other documents they have submitted. It's a difficult process. Control specifically ends in September. It is a very difficult check, and because it is the third one, my information is that it is not important for the number of fake documents, the holders of which, of course, will have the same fate as the others, that is to say, they will be released from this House. From there on, there are procedures for recruitment to the Fire Corps. Since this year, they have been recruited with full - time exams and officers and firefighters. The process of hiring fire extinguishers has so far been from jokes to chaotic. He's entering a class, I think, with the consent of all the parties in this area. And there must be a class in the recruits of firefighters, and these people must not enter the "window" seeking hopes for the various protectors. So that's my answer. I replied in writing to your question. I now complete the exact time, if you like, because we said 'in short time' and you will see the results very soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u35	Here you go, Mr. Katsafandos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, there is no battle between those who work and those who want to take their seats. This is a rule battle. And it is good in this Chamber to recognise who is right and who is wrong. There are some people who have been hired to the Greek public by bringing some documents, which have nothing to do with reality. So we can't laugh at ears. Anyone who has made a mistake, who has unlawfully, should also take the burden of the consequences of this illegality, which he has committed. From that point on, I am pleased with the answer you give me. Not that it has taken so long to control all these documents, which I have mentioned, but because at least they will put an end to the agony of all these people, who will never know if they will be hired in the Fire Corps, but also those who have illegally or feared that they may have made a mistake with their documents and fear that they will see the door of exit from the Firehouse. I am glad, therefore, that the answer you give me is that in September this whole control of the documents will be over. It would be a good thing at some point if we wanted to evolve as a state, all these procedures could make them faster, because we cannot sit around and talk about it so long. Mr Karagkounis, as well as the Golden Dawn colleagues, spoke about things which, unfortunately, in other European countries, are considered to be self-evident, Minister. At some point, then, we should also modernise, modernise with the course of the weather, modernise with what the seasons require, not sit down and sit down and say that there are a lot of supporting documents that we need to consider or have been many participants in the competition and take some time. But, how much time? Over two years? He's enough, he's too much. Finally, as I accept your answer - and I am pleased to hear from you that at least in September we will have a happy ending - I could not, Minister, on the occasion of the events that took place yesterday not to say a word about the unbaptised - in and out of import - of the Excavations. Of course I congratulate you, not above all you, but the policemen who participated in this operation, but I do not think that anyone is looking for the situation in Exarchia. I think that the latest developments in Exarches are not honoured, with all those in the anti-powered area being able to do what they want, have the law in their hands, even proceed to murder. I won't stand, the courts are responsible for judging the police. If he was a drug dealer, the police would have to arrest him, not be self-determination defenders of the law, some people carrying a weapon and roaming in a neighborhood. From there on, Minister, all this must be seen with the importance and the seriousness of ideologies and ideological perceptions, and outside of the logic of trying to embrace and mock people who are outside the limits of the law, who are led to illegality, but who have some ideological attributes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u37	Here, Minister, you have the floor, although I think you have covered your colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u38	That is precisely the case, Mr President, and I do not want to confuse the various issues of the Exarchate with the recruitment to the firefighting. Let me remind you again that what we are discussing is for 2011 competitions, for which the audit of the documents should have been carried out immediately, as is currently the case for the full-hearted examinations immediately, and we do not wait for years to send out or hire people. This logic of chaotic recruitment by windows and various "doors" in the Fire Corps has expired. There are procedures. I believe that everyone accepts them and that is how we shall proceed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, the Member, Mr Constantine Dousina, by letter to the President of Parliament, seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad from 12 to 19 July 2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u40	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Member Anna Karamanlis, by letter to the President of Parliament, asked for a short-day absence abroad from 11 to 13 July 2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u41	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Member Ioannis Pakisotakis, by letter to the President of Parliament, seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad from 8 to 12 July 2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u42	The House therefore approved the requested permission. It is the eleventh series under number 1054-27-2016, a topical question by Evia MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Michou to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the absorption of outstanding contractual fire-fighters of a five-year obligation. Here, Mr. Micho, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, according to decision 34671.F300.2/27-7-2011 a tender was opened, as we heard the New Democracy MP, for the recruitment of four thousand firefighters five years of obligation. The recruitment concerned three thousand four hundred contracted firefighters and six hundred citizens to be strengthened. Since then no recruitments have been carried out from the list and order of the participants, although 50% of the empty organic posts have been covered by this category, with the possibility of applying the tables for two plus three years, so that everyone can be appointed in organic positions that would occur in the Firehouse every year. The five years have elapsed, and unfortunately the procedure provided for in No.3938/2011 has not been followed, but instead the absorption of two hundred and twenty-five permanent fire extinguishers has been promoted since the seven hundred twenty-five tenders were carried out later. There were irregularities during the vote. In addition, the notice provided for a gradual absorption of the complicates over three years, covering 50% of the relics of the blanks of the Firehouse. This table expires on January 2017, and it was announced that a new notice with a limit of thirty-five years will be issued in 2017, with all that that implies for the future of the contracted fire extinguishers. I would like to ask you: will the absorption of complex conventional fire extinguishers be initiated immediately and will the necessary extension of the table be resumed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u44	He has the floor, Mr. Nikolaos Toskas, Deputy Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u45	Part of this has been covered by previous answers to related issues, but I will try to put things in a series, because the question is a little confusing. Three competitions took place in 2011. The first competition concerned the four thousand firefighters five years of obligation - as indicated in the question - of which three thousand four hundred were conventional firefighters and six hundred were private firefighters. There was a second competition for 50 officers recruited in 2012. And there was another one for permanent firefighters. They were seven hundred twenty-five firefighters and were hired two hundred and twenty-five early in 2014. What did this competition, to which you refer, provide for five-year obligation firefighters? It provided for the possibility of permanentization within the next five years. The five-year-old's ending now. For whom, however, do we have the possibility of permanentization? For those who at the time were under the age of 40 and had a high school graduation certificate. That's how the law provided for. We are now coming to implement this law. Approximately half of them have these qualifications. They were then younger than forty years, that is, they will be about forty-five years old, and they have a high school certificate. They will be permanentized as of February 2017. It has already come out in a circular, which invites them to submit their documents. What about the others? For the rest, we are committed to renewing the five-year term, the five-year term so that people do not lose their jobs, and why the Fire Corps needs them. However, they cannot be simulated because they did not have formal qualifications, age and grammar knowledge. Now, the pan-Hellenic examinations were established by Law 4249/2014. Since this year, the simple firefighters and the officers have been in full-fledged exams. About two and a half years will be spent on firefighters and four years on officers. We will now have very well-trained staff and we will not have the need for those involved. What about the perpetrators until 2011? Of those for whom the competition was opened, the attendants were about two thousand of the seasonal ones and were around twenty thousand of individuals. For all those who did not succeed were considered eminent. As you can see, this cannot be implemented, we cannot hope for this world and there can be no continuous renewal of false hopes for these people. Why? Because now a class has entered the system, the pan-Hellenic exams from which the Fire Corps will now take staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u46	Mr. Nikolaos Michos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u47	I agree to be a pan-Hellenic, since that's the way it is. However, let us not forget that some people who are twenty and twenty-five years of seasonal forest firemen have given their lives to flames, know the paths in their areas very well, know forests and mountains. They'd been in without a high school graduation at the time because they didn't have to. Now, what about them? Then, in the contest, there were deliberate irregularities. When the law was passed in Parliament, the age limit from forty-six years that was, came up to fifty-four, and the molecules were left out of a younger age. Last-minute driving licences were accepted, even attestations, while in previous competitions the diplomas should have been issued six months ago. For me, because I've been a professional driver for many years, for a professional license in a fire-fighting vehicle that's been climbing into unsavoury areas, it takes a little more than six months until the driver finds out. Because it takes an experience when you get that vehicle to take it somewhere. We've got a lot of incidents where they've been hit with fire extinguishers and they've been damaged by drivers. First of all, for the safety of drivers, and then for the proper work to be done, so that the firefighters can proceed to the fireworks. Also, as has been said before, in respect of Certificates I1, I2 and I3, how did some of them change them? What was there and they came in from I2, I3 and I4- and I speak to you, Minister, I went to Northern Evia in a village and told me about I4 and I5 of them - and they changed their course? Shouldn't you look at these? These people came in clearly by political means. They didn't go in because they deserved it. However, there is also the opinion of the Legal Council of State, number 260/2012, which does not recognise a subsequent change in capacity. That's what you need to look at. Why, I'm telling you again, they've clearly entered with political criteria. And previous decisions have made four postponements. Mr Mitsotakis said so on Mr Hatzinikolaou's "GENERAL" show when he was Minister. From there on, look at what will happen in 2017, because, as I told you before, they are people who have given their lives and I will bring you examples. In my area, in a village where five people were burned alive in flames, the two were seasonal forest firemen. Of course, nothing happened, burned, gave their lives, silenced the subject, forgotten. But there are, in these villages - not just Evia, throughout Greece - people who give their lives to protect their regions. So look at the criteria of people who have been out for many years and don't fly out people who are not in high school, but are too many years and then there was no that criterion. There is one justice to those who are to continue from there on, as you have said before, with today's criteria, if there is to be the high school graduation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u48	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u49	I've met with the delegations of these people. Indeed, many of them have offered a lot of proof and recognition of their offer is that we renew them every year in seasonal employment. You will tell me that seasonal employment is for five months and a man, to live, wants twelve months of work. Deal. But that's what we can do. It is a continuation of the practice of previous years, precisely because of their offer, but also because of the fact that there are no major turbulence in the system. I would remind you that until 2011 the recruitments to the firefighting were by means of competitions, whenever each minister remembered and whenever some needs arose after a great disaster. After 2011 there were all these 'drivers' that I described before, for which, of course, it is not the people's fault. They shared hopes from here and there, and these people ran to do some work to ensure a living. However, it cannot continue with this flow of some twenty-two thousand people who will meet the needs of the Fire Corps, which are not even huge at the moment, as we have quite a large number of fire extinguishers. We have the system of pan-Hellenics now, as we have said. Therefore, if these people continue to power the Fire Corps, neither pan-Hellenic nor anything will be meaningful, because they will continuously cover the various needs. Also, they do not have the formal qualifications, the age limitation and the limitation of grammar knowledge, which these people knew at the time. I recognise that on the basis of the logic that they have to be busy, so it has taken many years. This should be done now. They're looking for a better luck. They're pushing, trying, sharing questions to the representatives of the different parties. Their efforts are legitimate and they are recognised. But this cannot go on with the system of recruitment in the firehouse. The recruitment system - and each recruitment system - must be serious, must have rules and must comply with these rules. From that point on, I've talked to these people, and I've told them what possibilities there are. I think they have recognised that there must be a system and that the conditions must be met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, the course of questions to which Mr Toskas replied was closed has been closed. Thank you very much, Minister. We are now entering the other circle, where Deputy Minister Marcos Bollaris will answer. Therefore, there will be a discussion with number 1073/30-6-2016 fourth time question by the Senate MP of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Mikhail Jelloris to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the problem of LSD in Serres Prefecture. Here, Mr. Jelloney, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Deputy Minister, as you know, infectious follicular skin disease, this zoonoses first appeared in our country in the Prefecture of Evros. In 2015 he appeared also in the neighbouring prefectures of Serres, Halkidiki and Thessaloniki Prefectures in the region of Brasnos. In order to make a containment zone, the livestock was vaccinated in the province of Bisatia. In early 2016, however, follicular skin disease appeared and in breeding at other parts of the prefecture and, in fact, in forty-four outbreaks. In April, the vaccines were not sufficient to cover the entire livestock of the prefecture. So, at the end of April, we had the first killing of all the livestock in the first producer. In total, about three and a half thousand cattle have been killed in Serres Prefecture. As you can see, it's a very large number. Afterwards, all the livestock of the county was vaccinated, and I want to believe that the disease has been restricted. However, for these Producers of Serres Prefecture, which at the moment, according to the data of the DAG, is about seventy-seven and have lost their livestock capital and, therefore, they have no more than zero revenue, their obligations are running. Insurance contributions and tax contributions run. They have to pay everywhere. They expect an information on when their livestock will be paid, about estimates and what is the schedule for payments. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I can assure you that they have no information and I am very afraid that, due to the summer holidays of the relevant officials, this will still be delayed. That is why I ask you, in addition to the information on when the producers will be paid, to tell us when the estimates will be completed. Secondly, I would like to ask whether you intend to make a joint ministerial decision on a suspension for these producers, for whom I would once again point out that they no longer have any more revenue. You know very well that in order to remove this infectious zoonotic disease, follicular skin disease, where it is found, all the livestock is killed. I therefore ask if it is your intention to suspend contributions to the OGA, a suspension for the taxes they have to pay, since these producers, as I have told you, have zero revenue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u52	Please, please, Mr. Jelloney.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u53	I shall conclude, Mr President, in ten seconds. On the other hand, they have received a number of subsidies and subsidies from the Greek state, such as the balancing, beef-related. I would really like an update on how and when the producers will be paid and if you intend to facilitate them by suspending payment...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u54	The Minister got it. Mr. Bolaris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u55	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleague, indeed, there is a problem with lumpy skin disease, which has passed Evros since August 2015, the eastern boundary, and we currently have an extension to the Balkans. The country first made a zone to deal with the Kilkis Prefecture, Thessaloniki, Halkidiki. But once the disease has passed in Bulgaria, Skopje, Kosovo, Serbia, we have extended the zone to western Macedonia, Epirus, Thessaly. Over the next few days, the National Centre for the Management of LSD will request vaccination of all cattle units in the country. What I would like to stress is that where we were vaccinated, we have never had a problem before. I would like to say that there have been cases of hesitation from the point of view of producers of large and serious producers who have hesitated to be vaccinated. They have been persuaded, but it is now also convinced that we need vaccination. A month ago I was in Israel, I was told by those in charge there that for the sixth year they are constantly vaccinating, so that they can keep lumpy skin disease outside the livestock units. The problems in Serres Prefecture and the forty-four focal points you mentioned are in units that were not vaccinated. Everyone who was vaccinated had no problem. So there was one question there, whether the instructions given by the Ministry were applied, because they said that the zone was west of Serres Prefecture, in Kilkis, in Thessaloniki, in Halkidiki. The vaccinations are done. Whoever inoculated, they got away with it. Those who did not inoculate, as soon as the weather was warmed, because the disease is transmitted with mosquitoes - there are water habitats in Serres Prefecture - we had the problem. As regards compensation, all outstanding balances for 2015 have been compensated in two instalments. The first were compensated in December and the others, those who did not have time to make statements and to check, were paid as soon as we had approved the joint ministerial decision on compensation. We have the cases of Serres Prefecture and we have very recently in other prefectures in the west, a few fortunately, for which committees have already been set up, which are currently accepting statements to make the records and to proceed with compensation. As far as the aid issue is concerned, we have solved it and reached agreement with the OPEKEPE. The statements will normally be made, because it is damage suffered by producers by force majeure and therefore they will normally declare the number of animals slaughtered, have been exterminated without the fault of the farmers, but it is precisely because of this epizootic disease. There are issues to which you refer, which are clearly the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. That is what you will allow me not to answer. But on the part of the Ministry of Rural Development, I tell you that the committees are ready and starting the recordings and the issue of OPEKEPE...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u56	Are they starting or starting?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u57	I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u58	Are the recordings started or started?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u59	Mr President, I was clear. I said the committees were set up and they're starting...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u60	The "revival" is a little vague. Because he specifically asked...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u61	The phases are different.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u62	If you know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u63	Another phase is Serres Prefecture, another phase is other counties west. Therefore, this has to do with the local committees.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u64	Well, you were clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u65	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u66	Mr. Jelloney, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u67	Mr Deputy Minister, you have made a joint ministerial decision on 9 June with the Deputy Minister, Mr Juliarakis, on the procedure to be followed for both the assessments and the payment of farmers affected by lumpy skin disease and not only by all the diseases of the country's livestock. It's number 1677. It says clearly that within sixty days the producers must be paid. And it says it's immediate and I've listened to the compensation in sixty days, and it can be a direct payment of 80%, if all the livestock is killed by the state. I told you that the first case where we had been slaughtered, killed all the livestock in a plant was about the end of April. Today we have in July, and you yourself said that you set up the committees and that there will be assessments. We already have three months that have passed and no advance. Give 80% of the advance to these farmers, who no longer have any income. And you know very well what it means today in the area when a professional farmer is killed all his livestock. Your own decision to apply. You said the compensation would go in. Now, as far as I can see from programming, compensation for farmers and aid for beef is concerned. Make these farmers' accounts inconsistent, at least take this money so that they can survive. They can't live, their animals have been slaughtered, and they're having a survival problem right now. I ask you to take the initiative so that a joint ministerial decision, along with the Ministry of Social Security, can be taken to suspend contributions to the OGA, which at the moment, because of non-revenue, have not been paid - and people are uninsured - and they are also due. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say this. I would like, Minister, first of all, to implement your joint ministerial decision with Mr Juliarakis in these cases, to give 80% of the livestock market unit to producers and until the compensation per producer is fully repaid, to suspend their obligations for both insurance and taxation. I also ask their accounts to be inconsistent with the banks now that these zero incomes are in place for each farmer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u68	Here, Mr Bolaris, you have the floor, even though in the first part I think you have answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u69	In December, precisely because the arguments you make are valid, we addressed a letter to the European Commissioner, Mr Andriukais, to the European Commissioner, who raised the problem of compensation for farmers. There is one issue concerning the European Regulation. Under civil law, where compensation is granted, the European regulation is incomplete. It provides for a unit allowance per animal. This does not in any case cover farmers. There is a flaw in the European regulation and we are obliged to put it - and we put it - at the level of Europe, because there needs to be a change. At the meeting I had with the European Commissioner, I said attributes: the veterinarian enters the livestock plant, finds lumpy skin disease and says: 'Assessment of animals'. What does that mean? For a plant, which is dairy, it means that the producer from the other day has no income, while he had a product that delivered it, collected and maintained his family. Here we have a question: The days provided for in the joint ministerial decision do well to understand that they relate to the time when the check is completed and we have seen that. We now have the question of the committees passing to see if that is the case. That's our question. And we run so we can respond. The question, therefore, is that both with the joint ministerial decision and with the compensation to be paid, the compensation to be paid by our farmers is incomplete, because we are giving the value of the animal, if it is all the value of the animal - because it also has animals not covered by the compensation - but we do not cover the damage and the deficit of the capital that each unit has. There is, therefore, a major issue, which we continue to raise and which we are struggling to change. The Rules of Procedure need to be changed here. Also, at the same time and because there is this issue, there was an issue that we raised in order to deal with the disease. Because the European Regulation said that we had to carry out vaccinations when the disease went through the country. Another problem with the Rules of Procedure. As far as the other two issues you raise are concerned, one concerns the Ministry of Finance, and the other concerns the Ministry of Labour. I undertake to raise these two issues with the Ministries, to see if there are any possibilities for a CFD. But as far as the issue concerning the Ministry of Rural Development and the aid is concerned, I told you that it has already been dealt with in cooperation with OPECE. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u70	We now move on to the fourth with number 1091/5-7-2016 topical question by the Member of Parliament, Etolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on compensation for farmers from natural disasters, fires and diseases. Here, Mr Moraite, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we are transferring the agony of hundreds of thousands of farmers throughout the country, who are literally in despair for the great disasters that have been suffered in recent times, due to severe weather phenomena, such as hails, heavy rainfall, floods, etc., but also for the many diseases, as mentioned in the previous question, are not covered by ELGA, despite the fact that farmers and farmers are paying chewed premiums. So far, Minister, there has been no record of these damages and, of course, there has been no compensation for the farmers affected. All of this comes to be added to the barbaric anti-agricultural policy of the European Union, the CAP, which is devastated in the field of agriculture. This is a policy that your government serves with piety. We have, in other words, a wild tax, ELGA tax, sloppy increases in the OGA, which will become even greater, a tax on rural dwellings, mandarins, and now on the fields, through ENPIA, and on the pastures, as well as the abolition of the refund of VAT on oil, a number of measures that are pushing poorly-mediated farmers all over the country. These disasters which, as we said, were not recorded and which is why farmers did not receive compensation, are not going to be recorded in the future. Despite what you have done with a last amendment concerning the auditors of the ELGA, these people are not going to come out to make recordings, that is to say to do their work, because they really are the "fly" you give them, they are not going to respond to the costs. However, the main thing is that in recent years, through the memorandum, but also under this policy, they have suffered losses exceeding 50% of their income. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Here we have to say that ELGA's money is exclusively from the contributions of Greek farmers and farmers. The state budget has not even contributed 1 euro, despite its obligation. Especially after 2011, they have not given a single euro. From a rough estimate, these disasters amount to about 80 million, and we have more than 30 million damages, which were not compensated and made last year. We believe that it is a huge responsibility for the government to ensure that this assessment does not go ahead. The main point, Mr Minister, is that as long as time passes - something you know very well - the presumptions are lost, the 'witnesses' are lost on many crops. If, in other words, the assessors go and a long time has elapsed, they really will not be able to make an estimate of the size of the damage. We therefore call, Minister, for you to take immediate action now so that the records can be recorded and the compensation is paid to 100% of the disasters suffered by farmers and farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u72	You're asking if they're going to take immediate action, Mr. Moraite. Is that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u73	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u74	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u75	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. I would like to stress that the description you make in the historic place is so. We are in a year when in the country we experience the consequences of the phenomenon of climate change. Then, after a mild, almost spring winter, we have violent flooding, hail and disasters all over the country. It is indeed the way you have said it, the ELGA is using the money of the insured - an insurance body - but it is - operating under a law, the 2010 Act, which states exactly what damages are paid. In order to understand a procedure, it is important in the House to say that when we have a natural phenomenon, a flood, a quartzing, the Office must first make labels. It's a first action. I will make an escalation report to look at the process, which, of course, must be fast and objective and fast, but it is a process. Therefore, the agency must make labels. As soon as he makes labels and has the knowledge, he calls for announcements to be made and, after announcements have been made, statements are made. The ELGA, based on the statements, as a fourth step, makes personal assessments. These estimates must be passed through the elaboration of the IACS system, to see if it is correct, if the one who makes the statement, if the person for whom the personalised assessment was made is in the IACS system. Then we go to the syntax of the findings. Farmers also have the right to object to objections - where there are objections - we finally have findings. In other words, we have at best seven steps, in the case of objections, nine steps, which, you can understand, has one year in which a procedure requires both effort and expense and time, of course. The ELGA in 2016, these first months, has compensated with 112 million euros for losses of 2015. As far as the money for farmers is concerned, in the first months of February and so far, it has payments amounting to EUR 112 million, which have gone to the people affected, who have been damaged. There was an issue concerning the offshore land of assessors who come out to make the assessment of damages. I think to a large extent it was resolved last week. At the moment, the ELGA Agency solves issues related to their movement, to cover the costs they will need, for the taxi they will need, for the transport, etc., so that in two days they will be ready to go out and typically. In practice, the valuers are outside. They will, however, also be formally covered by these contracts which the agency makes, so that we can respond to the full extent of the damage, which is universal. I shall continue in my dentistry, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u76	Thank you. Mr Mauritius, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u77	Minister, you have not answered the main question. I asked in particular: at the moment we're talking, do ELGA's assessors go to damages and do assessments? They're not going. Apart from that, what you did with an amendment a few days ago, they are crumbs, they are dropping in the ocean. Either they shouldn't go for assessments or they have to put them out of their pocket. It is really crumbly to travel costs and you know it very well. You're putting another issue. You set a plaque in terms of the miles that they have to make in the month. I am telling you a characteristic example: in the Prefecture of Iotakarnania, the seat of ELGA is in Agrinio. If the valuers go to Lefkada, which is the border of the Prefecture or to the border of Arta or elsewhere, they will do so within two - three days of these five - 50 kilometers. Because the two hundred and fifty kilometers you took them to five hundred fifty. So they'll do it in a few days. If the damage is extensive, it is certainly not going to be covered in accordance with your amendment. Look, for us the main issue is that ELGA is consciously transformed into a rewarder, without any support from the state side. It is a conscious choice of deterioration and will lead farmers, of course, to private insurance. It must be said that it is not just the money of the hooded contributors to the ELGA for the insurance of production. I mentioned in my prototype that many diseases, like the previous one, are not covered by the ELGA, either in plant or in animal production. In addition, farmers pay for the statement of damage a euro the acre and ten minutes the tree, so 170 to 175 million that they are given also enters this money. Mr President, we have no illusions and no illusions in the field of agriculture that there is going to be a policy that will serve their own interests. This policy is 'cutting' in the European Union. You said so in answer to a previous question. It is the European Union itself that is putting obstacles. We call on farmers to take the case in their hands, to fight for another policy that serves their own needs, a policy where their struggle will not be crushed by monopolies. Mr Minister, I should like to conclude by saying this: a few days ago in the Committee on Production and Trade, Mr Apostle, after persistent questions from the JRC concerning subsidies - because a large part of these affected farmers today have a direct need for subsidies - he said that at the beginning of last week - Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Friday, we will receive compensation in accordance with Article 68, and so far we have not received a single euro from these workers. We support the fair fight of ELGA valuers. After all, it is money which is producers and must be paid in order to be able to respond. Of course, we as a party have another view in relation to the ELGA. We are talking about a single state body which will be financed by the State and by the farmers' contributions, but which will respond...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u78	Okay, this isn't about the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u79	I shall conclude, Mr President. It will respond to 100% of the losses, whether they are in plant production or in livestock. We also reported uncovered follicular dermatitis...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Moraite, please finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u81	For such an ELGA, we invite farmers to fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u82	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u83	I would just like to point out that after the provisions of the amendment that were voted on last week and which partly solve the problem of the movement of valuers, the rest of the Agency, ELGA, is currently issuing the travel orders for geotechnical valuers, which covers the rest of the part, so that the valuation process can be done as it should, without depriving one of our insured and affected producers of the possibilities provided for by the law. It is quite clear that the ELGA is moving, operating and compensationing the money paid by the insured person. That's clear. In this respect, the responsibility of the Ministry, the responsibility of the ELGA, the responsibility of the state is to speed up procedures - because it can be speeded up - and the best possible organisation on the part of the ELGA Regulation, to cover what can be covered. We have said many times, it is well known, that there are problems that are not covered by the ELGA, but by other provisions which are also covered by the state. It's the PSA. This is another procedure, which is coming additionally to cover when we have a great deal of damage in the country. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, too. We will close this cycle with two topical questions from Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou. The sixth question will be discussed under number 1026/21-6-2016 of the President of Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARKKKKOS KEgeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the problems of primary production of Crete from drought and high temperatures. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, what you have been discussing so far on compensation and what we shall be discussing on the basis of my own topical questions cannot be implemented unless you resolve rationally and effectively the issue of the movement of auditors and, more generally, the movement of the executive capacity of the Ministry and the agencies. The amendment you have voted on and made a law is a lack of law. It doesn't solve the problem. We had been working on and tabled an integrated amendment with less costly and better results. He had the agreement of the administration essentially and of the workers, and it was what we needed. Unfortunately, I do not know why you have not been allowed to accept it. It must immediately be reviewed. They're aggregating ruthless cases. They have already accumulated many thousands in many prefectures, especially in northern Greece, and are accumulated on the basis of the damages that have been done in the previous period and the ELGA must be carried out. I come to the point of the drought and the great problem that has arisen in Crete and in parts of southern Greece. Temperatures observed over the last year are unusually high. It is characteristic that the average temperature of February was five whole units higher than the average of the previous seven years. It was typical of the bronchometric data that the Decentralised Administration of Crete gave to the public: From September 2016 to March 2016 we have a reduction of rainfall of up to 70% compared to the previous five years. This is very important, because high temperatures in combination with anommia, with reduced rainfall, create an environment of intense drought, with significant impacts on plant and livestock. If the Ministry of Rural Development does not take initiatives to deal with the situation, the problems will deteriorate. Of course, apart from dealing with the situation, we must also see the issue of compensation for lost income for producers. We have problems not only this year. I must say that we will also have issues for the next few years from this year's circumstances. In other words, the blooming eyes, for example, which were affected this year, will not produce time, and this concerns both olive cultivation and wine growing. Of course, we also have losses in other crops, particularly in apiculture, a dynamic sector that has drowned in the drought, with long-term consequences.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Kegeroglu, finish. Say the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u87	I shall conclude, Mr President. The question concerns the Ministry's intentions, first of all, to document the problems relating to compensation, but also to address the problem of drought, for Crete and for southern Greece, so as to address the problem of desertification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u88	And wherever else there is the same problem. Mostly it is in Crete and southern Greece, but it can also be elsewhere. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u89	Yes, Mr President, you are right. Indeed, there is elsewhere and is in northern Greece, in fruit. Mr Colleague, thank you very much for the question. As you know, the regulation on plant production insurance with which ELGA operates, Law No.3877, does not provide for compensation for acarp, for reduced production, bad fruiting, schinopamia and others. However, these damages which, as we have said before, cover almost all of the country, can be included in the programme of State financial aid in the ASEAN. It is a phenomenon that begins from Crete and reaches Macedonia, most of the olive trees in Crete and the Peloponnese, intense in fruits in Macedonia. It is therefore necessary to initiate a procedure to be initiated by the affected, in order to bring the requests for compensation to the loss of production, in accordance with the State aid Regulation and Community guidelines. He's got some conditions. Because we are heard by the producers, it is important to say that the first condition is that the year of damage should be produced at a rate of 30%, in relation to the average yield for the previous three years, with the official figures in the country. The second is to be scientifically substantiated by a committee designated by the Ministry, once it has been requested that loss of production is the result of an unfavourable weather treaty. In this respect, the unhappiness in the treaty is good weather, the high temperature in February, January and so forth. The third is that we should have the official meteorological evidence to confirm these weather conditions. The fourth is that the cost of compensation for losses should be approved by the General Accounting Office of the State. I have to tell you now that ELGA's services in Crete, the center of Heraklion, are following the evolution of olive cultivation with notes. Not only in the prefecture, but throughout Crete, in relation to the incarnation phenomenon in terms of the Ministry, the mandate was given and we have a finding of a committee, which refers to the causes of the phenomenon. But this study is not enough. The Ministry orders a proportionate study so that we can use it and possibly support another request. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Mr President, I will continue later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, too, for the consistency. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Minister, I'll start with the evidence. I will provide you with the official meteorological data announced by the Decentralised Administration of Crete, as well as the analytical data concerning all of the island's brochometric stations. I'll put it in the Minutes, have it at your disposal. They document a reduction of up to 70% of rainfall over the past five years and, of course, very significant compared to last year. The other element is requests. They have already made announcements and formally ask for the intervention of ELGA and the Ministry of Rural Development almost all the mayors and organisations of Crete. So the request has been filed. I'll testify to that in the Minutes. Climate change is present, active and threatening. Desolation is no longer before the gates, it is within the walls. And this is about the phenomena that we see start from the south, Crete, going on for southern Greece and, of course, making their threatening appearance in northern Greece as well. There has been an earlier study of the dangers of desertification. He knows what the regions are. You need to cooperate with the appropriate ministries, infrastructures, environment and the Ministry of Rural Development through an effective design. It needs synergy with other local actors as well as sectoral ones. We need to implement direct-efficiency actions to deal with the problem. Of course, the establishment of the scientific groups on the effects on each crop is urgently needed and we really need to see the olive-growing, vine-growing and apiculture, which concerns the whole country and that, the negative effects of drought. What are we doing? There is no need for the scientific team to be set up only to document the damage and go to the compensation, but to see what long-term consequences are and how they are treated. I think the Ministry will move in this direction. However, synergy and funding are also needed. Mr Minister, there must be compensation for producers in addition to the loss of income, for the additional reason that, if they are unable to grow, if they abandon farming, you know that it will deteriorate. We will then have the need for more funding to tackle a problem which will be strengthened by non-agriculturalism on the part of farmers. In conclusion, I would again ask for your immediate intervention, because all the evidence exists. Bring a new order to the House on the subject of ELGA auditors, because everything will stay in the air if that is not the case. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u92	Here you go, Mr. Bolaris.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u93	Because they are listening to us in Crete and across the country, I would like to say that it is important to say that the mayors and the institutions have made a statement that we have a problem, but that in no way replaces the legal procedures, the procedures laid down by the law, in order to lodge an organised file, to make the statement so that we can initiate the regulation on State aid and Community grants provided for in the case of PSEs. You know that very well. What we are saying is at the same time an application and encouragement in the areas that we have the conditions of the law, in order to seek compensation producers under the MAGP, to submit organised files. The law, which is the ELGA regulation, does not provide for compensation for incarnation, is clear. There's the way out. I stress it coordinates: it needs the competent services, which are the local authorities, the formation of the files, to be submitted, to initiate the procedure. I have to say to you, because you have made a reference to the fact that the heat in June has indeed caused damage to the Heraklion Prefecture in table varieties, vineyard crops and vegetables. The procedure has been initiated. An announcement was made, a statement was made, so we could go to assessments. On the issue of the damage caused to the bee's livestock, there was also an announcement, there are statements to be made, so that we can then have the estimates immediately. On both issues relating to direct damage to the organisation and to the ELGA Regulation the procedure has been initiated. The ELGA services in Heraklion know that you're speaking and you know it well. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u94	Here, Vasilis, they say "your death, my life". We in the urban centres said we had no heavy winter, and we saved heating oil and problems are escaping elsewhere because of climate change. We move to the ninth number 1012-17-2016 topical question of the second question of the MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARK KEgeroglou Vassiliou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the loss of subsidisation to young farmers and tenants of rural land. Here you go, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u95	It remains, if you are so kind as to tell me, in the context of the second question, who is responsible for setting up the CRL compensation file in order to submit the issue of damage to olive cultivation. If you are kind enough to tell me in this context who is responsible, because I did not understand. The second topical question, Mr President, Mr Minister, concerns the loss of aid for a large category of farmers, particularly young farmers, who have rented agricultural land from older producers and farmers, and have joined the programme. Of course, many of these crops are also in individual programmes and that is important. Unfortunately, due to procedural problems in OPEKEPE, what came out as a conclusion after the problem was raised and for which Mr Apostle to another question has spoken, it is not entitled to the aid of the young farmers concerned who rented the land because of a form of 'xi' that cannot be submitted now, but farmers have raised objections. But the subsidy cannot go to the owner and the previous grower, because this would mean a lot of loss of aid from individual programmes for organic farming and others. It is a problem that, in my view, could have been solved within the OPEKEPE. Unfortunately, some have notified and informed the European Commission - in their opinion correctly, they have not done so from a bad intention - and what we have seen so far is Mr Apostleos saying to us 'in the revision of 2017'. There he referred the matter to another colleague. I would like to see whether, once the matter has been brought to the European Commission, we can ask the Commissioner and ask him to look into this matter and not to do so next year, not to take place in 2017 for 2018 and so on, but to do so this year. Is this the intention of the Ministry, and will this be possible, in order not to lose subsidies and subsidies that producers are entitled to, and, without their own fault, they seem to lose?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u96	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u97	You know very well that 2015 is the first year of implementation of the new CAP. You are well aware that on 31 December the date of the granting of the single payment entitlements expired and that the allocation of these reference rights was set in 2013. In order to calculate the unit values of the new key payment entitlements of 2015, the critical year was 2014. When the statements for 2014 were made, obviously, since we have so many failures, we have so many producers and tenants and owners who did not declare, there was a lack of, a lack of information. And for this information, for this incomplete information, for the misinformation, for the loss of information - you understand that very well - there are responsibilities. So the question is now that, while the owners had to be informed to declare their own fields, and the tenants did not say so, but to contact and inform the owners, this was not the case. There was a repetition of what was happening in the previous periods. The result you know, you describe it in your question. When the results were finalized, some people understood by reading their rights that they lack too many fields and that is when the scale of the problem was understood. They did not include rented by another farmer, but only proprietary rights. And that, as you can see, is a huge loss for each of the producers and, of course, for the local and national economies as a whole. Report some of the suggestions. I want to assure you that the Ministry and the Minister, who participates in the Councils of Ministers and the Secretary-General, who have representation in the institutions of the European Union, have raised this issue. It's in the Commissioner's knowledge. There's no solution. And the Ministry and the Minister, as they said the other day, insist on the direction. I also have documents here from Brussels, which respond to this particular issue. It's a very big deal. You're right. And we need to find a solution, because we have people, producers, whether they are new or older, who have left without rights, because they have not been informed. We have to make that effort. It's a joint effort, it's a national effort. We need to resolve this issue. From Brussels there is the argument that we are talking about the choice of the country, which has chosen historical rights. Historical rights have the owner, the tenant has only rights to the aid, so we do not change the basic regulation. That's our question, with what he might have mediated. The issue is in knowledge and the struggle and the effort continues to change. Because underneath we have people who are with families, with problems, with issues, and they struggle to stand up to this difficult situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u98	Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u99	Look, I am not going to place myself on the issue you said about responsibility, because that is not the issue now, but what you said at the end, to see how we solve the issue. Because, if we go to responsibilities, we will see a lot of people who could really have handled things differently, they could have handled things differently in 2014, they could have handled them otherwise in 2015, they could have managed them differently in the first and second half of 2015. Why, as you said, at the end of 2015, rights were granted. We often have the following bilingualism by the Minister. What does the Minister say? When he is concerned he says "we managed and modified the CAP and we brought 20 billion and five, six for the pillar of growth" etc. and, whenever it does not interest him, as in cases where there are problems like this, he says: 'This evil has been done by the former'. This is a matter concerning the country and the European Union. Before the matter goes to the European Union, however, I believe that it could be resolved here. You did well and you took over the administration of the OPEKEPE, if it were for that reason. But that's not good enough and that's not good enough later. After the damage is done, it is certainly not corrected at national level because it will bring penalties and fines. It could have been solved more ahead. It could have been before the issue of rights, in 2015, resolved and not resolved, because at a very slow rate they entered the spirit of the people who were placed in the administration. In any case, we must leave this now, because it is not the issue of responsibilities, as I said at the beginning. I insist and my remark insist that this direction of change within the year, so as not to wait for the overall revision of the regulation, we must support it and find allies at European level in order to do so. I do not know whether or not other countries have specific problems in order to create alliances, but certainly your Ministry should call on all MEPs, whether they are in the Committee on Agriculture or not, to put the matter in the European Parliament dynamically, so that we can deal with the situation by getting a partial amendment or a procedure to amend the regulation before 2017. In my opinion, there is no other way, because in 2018, when the amendment will be completed, then the rights will have been lost for many reasons, which have to do with other provisions of the regulation. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u100	It's where they say that old companion love is not forgotten. I've never seen Mr. Kegeroglu so mild, Mr. Bolaris. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u101	Mr President, it is clear that the issue concerns a number of thousands of producers - there is no record of the number - who without any responsibility they have left without aid. It is therefore a question of this dimension that I mentioned before, with which the Ministry is currently moving in the European Union, to the Commission, in order to have a solution. This dimension is an issue that concerns all of us. The world underneath, which has remained without rights and similar aid, is Greek citizens and have from us, by the government, by the state, a claim to solve the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u102	Take advantage of the proposal for Greek MEPs, even a representative from each party. It doesn't have to be all twenty-one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u103	Mr. Kegeroglu is right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr. Bolaris. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade is tabling its report on the proposal for a law of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism: 'Measures to relieve the people's family'. If I'm not mistaken, it's the motion for a law of the Communist Party. Mr. Tassos, it's a symbolic date to be discussed. I would remind you that on 14 July 1789 the French Revolution, the fall of the Bastille, took place. We're late, we're late, but we put it on the right date. Series is the fifth under number 1090/5-7-2016 top-level question of the first-round question by the Member of the Lesvos Parliamentary of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Health on the problems of the Public Health System of the islands of Ikaria. In the timely question, Mr. Blondos will answer. Mr Vandemeulebroucke, I do not know if it happens, as many times as I have been in the Chair, you are always present and I have to point it out, in contrast - because I would say so anyway - with six questions which will not be answered, because once again your Deputy Mr Paulakis, on account of a workload, is not coming. I'd say that for formal reasons, I'm saying it right now. Here, Mr. Tassos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Let me say that it is common to go back to health matters, particularly to islands such as the Forens, because the substantial changes needed to enable the public health system to respond to the needs of these people have not occurred. In particular, in the islands of Fourna, where there are three settlements with a population of about 2,000 inhabitants, who are growing during the summer season with tourism, fortunately there are many children and families of young people, but there are also old people, there are even MEDIs and there are people who need continuous monitoring and care. With two rural doctors in Thymana and Chrysomilia - where, in Thymana, access is only made by boat - there are no rural doctors and there are two rural doctors. In the name of a multi-powered coronary, the rural doctor, who was sent by a sixty-day extract from Io, left her vacant post from June 20, as she returned to her base. The doctor who has been recruited for this job in the position of general physician, from March 2015 until today, has presented a total of three and a half months and is absent from office for all the remaining months. The solution given by the competent authorities is to take it off on a holiday, but without giving a definitive solution to the problem, while maintaining in this post a doctor, who objectively does not fulfil its duties. The promises given for the immediate resolution of the problems during the visit of a delegation from the people's Furniture and the island's leaders to the Ministry on March 15, 2016, appear to have remained in the words, as were the promises made by the officials of the Second Piraeus and Aegean Islands. So we ask you, Minister, and you and your Government: What measures will you take to cover directly, now, the gaps with the recruitment of permanent doctors of full and exclusive employment in regional hospitals of Thymnasia, Chrysomilias, and the multi-powerful of Fortresses, to be recruited directly to the multi-powered Fortress, at least in general pathologist, pediatrician and nursery staff, and to upgrade the multi-powered hospital of Fortress to a health centre with full staff and equipment, the recruitment of qualified doctors and drivers for the ambulance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u106	The Minister for Health, Mr. Andreas Blondos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u107	My dear colleague, the image you're showing, I think it's the real thing. There are islands in the island complex of the Aegean Sea, which have long been vacant. There are about three hundred barren regional doctors in the country, which are not covered, that is to say, there is no available from either agricultural doctors or general doctors to cover them, nor with subsidiary staff, as many times as we have attempted, because these positions are obviously not attractive to the current wage and work standards of the health system. In this multi-powered regional hospital, which is indeed subordinated, several attempts have been made to cover itself on a more permanent basis. The doctor you referred to was recruited, a curator in general medicine. There have been serious problems, there has been an unjustified absence from work for an extended period, and it is currently on temporary holiday and has been referred to the Central Disciplinary Board of ERC doctors. An adjunctive cardiologist was hired, who shortly resigned because he took up a permanent doctor's post in the health system, from the positions they "watched" from the 2009-2010 crises. These days, on July 13, the new proclamation for rural doctors expires. We hope that there will be interest this time in covering the position with a rural doctor. But, in any case, we're in agreement, we've talked to the Ministry of National Defence, and we have the commitment of the Deputy Minister that the position with a private doctor will be temporarily covered. In any case, there is an institutional provision for this. What the 2nd Health Region does systematically, obviously in consultation with the Ministry, is, by rotating agricultural doctors, but also specialist general doctors, from adjacent sanitary formations of the region, i.e. from other islands, from Io, from Samos, from Leros and, of course, from Ikaria, to cover, even temporarily, the gap that has been created. The last decision of the Director of the 2nd Ministry of Health was to move a rural doctor from the Health Center - Hospital in Ikaria. There have been some reactions. The Director of the U.S., in consultation with the hospital commander, saw the on-call program and the conclusion is that he can, with the hospital staff today, allow a periodic transfer of doctors to cover also the Polyvalent Regional Hospital of Fornas. What we are doing - and I think that is an important intervention - is that we have introduced a horrendous region benefit of EUR 400. This concerns four hundred and eleven doctors' posts in barren, difficult and insular regional doctors throughout the country, including seven regional doctors in Ikaria and the surrounding islands. It is two for the Polypowerful Regional Hospital of Furnas, one for Thymana, one for Chrysomilia, one for Races, Evius and two for the Regional Medicine of Cancer. It is, therefore, seven regional doctors in the region, in which doctors, as attraction motives, will get a bonus of about 50% of their wages - because so much is the wages paid by the rural doctor - and we have made a systematic effort, in cooperation with the regions in question, to have additional social incentives, such as facilitating accommodation and feeding, so as to increase the possibility of young doctors being attracted to young people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u108	The rest in your dentistry, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u109	The rest in my dentistry. However, I would like to say one more thing. We have organised a good network of telemedicine, which, after many delays and a long time trip, has started operating on the Aegean islands, in consultation with some major hospitals, in which doctors have been trained to provide advice and expertise to doctors. This mainly concerns doctors at the Hospital of Nice and the Attica Hospital.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u110	Minister, please complete. You've spoken twice a year.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u111	I therefore believe that, with this combination of interventions, at this difficult time when the health system has many gaps, we can strengthen this sense of citizens' safety.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u112	The doctor's and patient's relationship isn't a telemedicine, Minister, and you know it. You were right to do that, it's a good measure, but the relationship between doctor and patient is not replaced. Mr. Tassos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u113	We fully agree, Mr President. Minister, you know, the basis for the problem is that public and free health and capitalist development are not compatible. They're two opposite concepts. In capitalism everything is commodity. And health, of course, is a commodity for sale for profit. This is the only criterion for any intervention in any human activity carried out under the capitalist system. You are now saying that with internal movements, with "bumps" with military doctors - who, not least, a military doctor, as far as I've been informed, had a code, but could not be prescribed...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u114	This issue has been resolved.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u115	I wish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u116	Not a military doctor, but you perform his duties.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u117	Yes, an armor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u118	Yeah, yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u119	No, I say it because he's another military doctor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u120	That's right, that's right. Thank you, Mr President. He's a young man who performs his term of office. These problems are not solved that way. It requires permanent and full-time staff. The inhabitants of these islands have the right to health. They have the right to have the health that today's progress in science and technology gives them. That's every man's right. It cannot be a merchandise, because he now tells you, who sees health as a cost: "I, what should I go to the Fortress with a thousand five hundred inhabitants or to Thymana with a hundred fifty inhabitants or in Chrysomilia with a hundred people? They're not customers. These are few, they do not bring profit." In other words, health cannot be dealt with in terms of cost, but in terms of need. As the President quite rightly said, telemedicine cannot replace the presence of the doctor. Telemedicine, of course, must be used but in addition. Under no circumstances should it be justified as a cost cut to replace the physical presence of the doctor with technology. So what we are asking of you is to fight this policy. It cannot be in the name of capitalist development, and because it requires this development, public and free health is sacrificed. Public and free education cannot be sacrificed. These are not compatible with some people who say they're left.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u121	We're continuing with the Minister's dentistry, which will be three minutes. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u122	Mr Colleague, we have already discussed them, as has been the case recently during a timely question. We believe that we can even have serious public care in capitalism, even in a memorandum period. Even when there are current budgetary constraints, we can with a targeted intervention, really putting this sector as a priority, improve the situation and provide better services in the world. That's what we're trying to do. The Ministry does not have a tank of doctors to place it in the huge gaps that exist especially in island areas. The Ministry shall issue permanent posts. For the first time after six years there were seven hundred permanent posts of doctors - very few and inadequate, but they are for the first time after six years - in the health system. It is gratifying that there is, at present, a very long, unscathed admission of applications. There are positions for which they have applied for up to 75 candidates. Many of them are already abroad. It seems that we can move these movements slowly to reverse the current of medical immigration. We are doing this systematically. We are trying to give special encouragement, because the island country is in trouble. There's a serious problem with her health coverage and there's need for extra motives. We cannot pay multiple wages. We cannot compete with Europe's wage and work standards. We are, however, trying to strengthen the attraction of young doctors in particular, but also to provide them with better scientific support and - obviously - through telemedicine systems. What we are doing is making use of all the resources available we have. We have even exploited European funds through a programme which was to meet the needs of emergency health care for refugees, to hire a hundred forty people, doctors and nursing staff, who went to seven islands in the north-eastern Aegean and strengthened public structures. We are therefore making a systematic effort. In my opinion - my humble view - what we are doing is the first serious intervention to strengthen the public health system from the start of the crisis, through recruitment packages of permanent and subsidiary staff, and through the CEDEFOP for intensive treatment units and with increased funding and additional incentives. We believe that, particularly in the next period and with the administrative stability which the system is gradually gaining, it will be able to bear fruit, reverse the current toward the outside for young doctors and give a decent prospects, professional and scientific, for young doctors, who are excellent and who are, unfortunately, deprived of our homeland and the islands, especially and rightly, of the people of these regions express their uncertainty in the face of the disease, in the face of the serious incident. So we need a grid of interventions to cover this huge health deficit.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u123	Thank you very much. Here is the seventeenth under number 996/14-6-2016 topical question by the Independent MEP, Achaias Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the reading of the Gospel on the day of the Holy Spirit in Agia Sophia. The current question will be answered by the State Secretary, Mr Ioannis Amanatidis. Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u124	As to how timely it is, it is timely, even though the festival of the Holy Spirit has passed and that is why the congressman is not responsible. Mr President, and those who see us, I would ask them to think who might have said "driving and my knees were bent in Agia Sophia". Who might have said "hey, it's nothing tragic to read the Koran in Agia Sophia." Can you imagine? The first, that they were bent on his knees, that he was caught with a cold sweat, his body trembled and almost piled down, said the imam who dared to sing the Koran eighty-five years later, in the sacred temple of Saint Wisdom of Constantinople for their Muslim festival. This amazing confession, which he shows how he felt, Mr President, making this great Muslim challenge within the sacred symbol of Christianity, Orthodoxy, made it by imam, which is not random, but is a professor of theology at the University of Ankara and what I read to you, his statement, his feelings, relayed the Turkish media. The statement "nothing's wrong" who do you say he did it? Not the Minister present, but Mr. Nikos Xydakis, the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs. Do I have to say more now? Once again, Mr President, it seems that we are in the same spectators' work: the Turks are unjustly provoking and engaging with courage, and we are going to look at how to pursue a policy of resentment toward them so that we do not spoil the climate. What climate? What turns Agia Sophia into a mosque overnight and in violation of international conditions. This was not just a minority of fanatics. It took place while a large one had precedented out of Agia Sophia, starring Erdogan himself. They attempted and achieved a second abundance, with Turkey's state television broadcasting every morning as if it were their own attempt by reading Quran quotes. We are therefore talking about Turkey's official state policy, unless Mr Xydakis here tried to convince us that nothing is wrong. Unfortunately these are signs of further impairment of the country's national power and of marginalisation of the region. The economic crisis tends to develop into a crisis in our national affairs. The clouds they gather are a lot. When we baptize fish in order not to displease the Turks, it makes sense that other neighbors, such as Albanians and Skopje, are disembodied. Turks raise a issue with Agia Sophia, Albanians with the Chameleons, and he goes on to say. This is not the happier occasion for our national issues, Minister, and you really must consider your historical responsibilities.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u125	And hang up with this, Mr. Nicholas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u126	I'm closing, Mr. President. Unfortunately, we seem to be entering a new dangerous circle on national issues. And the worst is that some, not the minister present - I have to say it, because from his term of office in the Committee on Orthodoxy, the opposite is serving - but the government - I do not know who is represented - does not understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u127	Finish it. You've had two minutes and I've given you four. Shut up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u128	I shall conclude, Mr President. If we continue to show this tolerance to Turkish insults, then the worst is in front of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u129	Mr. Nicolopoulou, I'll turn you off your microphone. Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u130	That is why the proposal was: since they have taken this step and we have to ask ourselves, we have to do the same, we have to do the same, we have to read the Gospel too. And that would really be an act of reciprocity.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u131	Because of this, I left you. Although today, since you saw the prime minister, you had to ask him about the other ministers. What are you doing to Mr Amanatidis, who is also a noble man? Here, Mr Amanatidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u132	Thank you very much, Mr President. The government's sensitivity to the issue that Agia Sophia has raised in relation to the alteration of the character and the historical and cultural and the high symbolism of Orthodoxy is great. The government has raised the matter on its agenda from the very first moment. One proof, I would say, is that in the written question you asked on 14 June, the Minister himself, Mr Kotzias, replied on 22 June. Of course, the topical question we are answering here now, by raising this issue again, especially at a time when the 40th session of the UNESCO Intergovernmental Committee on the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage is held in Istanbul yesterday and 20 July. Mr Nicolopoulos, thank you very much for the question, because once again I would like to reply and say that the government neither fearful nor inconsistently responded to them. I shall come to the essence of your question in dentistry, but let me say two - three points which I think need to be heard. Agia Sophia is a monument, characterised as a monument of cultural heritage by UNESCO and therefore owes and enjoys the protection and due respect appropriate to historical monuments, both self-righteous and in the context of the relevant conventions and, of course, not only of the country in which it is hosted, but of all the countries which have signed the UNESCO Convention in accordance with Article 6. 1 of the UNESCO Convention. It is an obligation of the international community as a whole to cooperate in the protection of global cultural heritage. Obviously the decision by the Turkish authorities to read the Koran, on the occasion of the Ramadan, as well as the call for prayer from the musine, are an attempt to alter the use of such a historic monument of global importance. Also, these actions followed a series of actions, which turned into mourning Orthodox temples of Agia Sophia, Banking and Nice. Of course, I believe that they promote the Islamization of religious and cultural elements. Turkey thus tries to turn it into a mosque, violating its own decision, which in 1935 and Kemal Ataturk had agreed and had passed a law to act as a museum. It infringes its obligation to maintain the authenticity of the monument, especially as regards its use. As regards the view that, in the mid-term of tension and religious extremism, such actions do not promote respect for and the approximation of religions and the dialogue of cultures, which should be the policy guide for the region, they testify to the escalating potential spreading, to practices that are incompatible with Turkey's European path and to respect the principles and values which are the foundations of the European Union. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. All these actions were condemned by the Greek Government, which, from the point of view of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, carried out all the relevant diplomatic activities. We have informed diplomatically the delegations of states here in Athens, so that we have communications from both the United States and Russia. Two letters were sent to Mrs Bokova. In the first answer, we are also waiting for a second answer. Apart from informing the countries, and because you spoke exactly about the day of the Holy Spirit, I would like to inform you that exactly when the Holy and Great Synod took place in Crete, he dealt with the theme of Holy Wisdom. Yes, it is in the findings and decisions of the Holy and Great Synod. From there, the issue was raised also by the President of the State Duma, Mr Nariskin, who came to Thessaloniki on the occasion of the 23rd Parliamentary Assembly of Orthodoxy. In fact, in his recent interview with Kathimerini, he refers to this issue, and there is also a series of major approved newspapers - Germans, I would say to you - which refer to this subject. These didn't come from heaven, but they were made with specific political and diplomatic movements. In my dentistry, I will answer you, Mr Nicolopoulos, and the point you raise and thank you very much for the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u133	No one doubts, Minister, that it has been done, since you say so. But also surely it did not stop reading the Quran until the end of the Ramadan, no matter what happened. Here, Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u134	That's right, Mr. President. Unfortunately, because it seems that it does not sweat the ear of Mr Erdogan and the Turkish policy that he has followed in recent years, as the Minister, the Holy Sophia of Constantinople, said, was another link, because they had been preceded, as you quite rightly said, by the conversions of many sacred churches, which in recent decades had been operating as museums and yet not as Muslim mosques. So the demonstration of determination and courage, but combined with efficiency, seems to be the only path of dignity, as long as we say "we do not claim", "we do not remember", "we forget". Mr President, I will say this because it is true. Today, at the meeting I had with the Prime Minister and despite the fact that the occasion was the electoral law, because it was kind enough to keep me about two hours, I told him it was a tragic mistake, to engage in and provoke the religious feeling of the Greeks with all the unconsciousness of the non-reconcilables with what the Greek nation is. I told him he'd do well with the Church. Because those who did well with the Church did not lose.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u135	For reasons of courtesy, I don't ask you what he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u136	My Minister, because I think it would be much more effective to take a step forward, because the Greek position should no longer stop at the fact that Agia Sophia is a global religious monument and because a more - within introductory - 'productive' policy, in which realistic claims will be made - such as that Agia Sophia is a monument that can help in dialogue and coexistence of religions - now that the world community needs it, may be a better way to make this symbolic and actually have global resonance. So after the Islamic ceremony took place there and the Koran was read, now to become an orthodox function and to read the Gospel there. You know, Minister, what could happen to this worldwide religious monument, in this monument that is important to us Orthodox, but also to all Christians. I would like to remind you of something you too have experienced, but I do so that all Greeks and Greeks can hear it. So I remind you what happened when in our neighbouring country, Albania, Anastasios inaugurated this monument of Orthodoxy, the Metropolitan, Archbishop of the Tiranas. Remember how many countries played this monument of Orthodoxy and how much better a symbol of friendship, unity and division was this. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, with regard to Crete - I said it at the outset, and I will say it again, because we owe the Caesar of Caesar to Caesari, you have been from the outset and you are in all the steps that our church leaders are trying to take - at that meeting the Prime Minister should be there. The government should have another role and another presence. And Ecumenical to answer that now we're going to run the School of Halki. We all want to, we're all talking about it, but you know, with public relations visits waiting for us by the Hopeful, to say we're doing it, it's not the best answer. Perhaps the best answer can come from a brave initiative that the Greek Government hopes to follow on the subject of Saint Wisdom...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u137	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u138	...after they gave the first chance, and I'm not saying why.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u139	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor and please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u140	Mr Nicolopoulos, I would like to tell you that on these issues - and you know it very well - especially in such a position, there is a need for great weighting and careful handling of such decisions and actions. This position you say needs - if you like - further thought and perhaps often not so productive or effective. Think about it and what I'm saying. I say this in an indirect way, and I think you understand...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u141	Imagine a high school in Agia Sophia what would it be all over the world!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u142	I'm telling you, diplomatically enough. I mean, it takes a lot of thought and wisdom. We're looking at it all. The country's interest at the moment is not, but it is not to avoid escalation, it is also for the results you have in the long term, how they can function in the interest or not. That is why I answer you this way. First of all, I should like to point out again: it is not a bilateral issue, it is an international issue, and we have rightly raised it as such, and I think we have the results we expected and I think that the neighbouring country should see it, because...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u143	Did you expect these results? But they weren't in the way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u144	Let the State Secretary finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u145	Mr. Nicolopoulou, because it's a place in this House and it's specific, so I'm saying it's a wisdom. The manipulations are not simple, it is not simple to say 'I ask for one or the other'. Many times the results can be negative to what you want. Something that seems to be aggressive now and is rightly projected, etc., may not have the results you want. So it's all about attention. In any case, the neighboring country must respect the historical and religious value of its monuments. This certainly works for the benefit of itself, promotes its own European integration and economic development, and of course not to create tensions. Because all around the region, if you will see, Greece is a pole of stability and dialogue. We are aware, therefore, of our policy in all the events that have taken place in recent times, and we have just said that. Greece as a pole of stability, dialogue and, of course, intercultural dialogue. See the visit made by Foreign Minister Kotzias to China, who spoke about intercultural dialogue. These are themes of policies that unite and unite the world around our own position and isolate the logic that the neighbouring country wants to pass on to this particular topic. I think it'll get results too. We keep working on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u146	The Xydal phrase that nothing's wrong, that is, it's...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u147	It's not the essence of your question. That's the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u148	My question like that starts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u149	I know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u150	Mr. Nicolopoulou, you are an old colleague. I would remind you that Mr. Amanatidis is State Secretary and Mr. Xydakis is Deputy. Don't ask those questions now. To answer Mr. Xydakis the State Secretary. In this regard you must ask this question. Not Mr. Amanatidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u151	He avoided the arc and the bile.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u152	Thank you very much. Seventeen questions at today's sitting either due to the absence of the two Ministers, Mr Tsakalotos and Mr Alexiadis, abroad or due to the workload of the other ministers, will be postponed for a further meeting. The first question under number 1089/5-7-2016 of the First Cycle of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Athanasios (Sakis) Papadopoulos to the Minister of Finance, concerning the revival of Article 44 of Law 3763 (A 80) in order to promote self-convention in the drafting of a definitive contract by pre-agreements for the transfer of immovable property, is not discussed due to an impediment of the Minister of Finance, Mr Alexiadis, who will be abroad. The third, with number 1088/28-6-2016, is a top-stage question from the Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister of Finance, on the exit of Great Britain from the European Union, is not discussed due to the obstruction of the Minister, Mr. Tsakalotos, who will be in Brussels. The sixth question, under number 1092/5-7-2016, of the First Cycle of the Member of the Independent Greeks, Mr. Vassilis Kokkalis, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the "terminalisation of the gross unjust exclusion from the work of the employees of the liquidated Cooperative Evian Bank", is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance, Mr. Tsakalotos, which will be in Brussels. The first under number 1086/4-7-2016, a topical question by MP Florina of New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Antoniadis to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, concerning the construction of the Florina-Ptolemais road, is not discussed due to the impediment of Minister Spirtzi, due to a workload. The second question, under number 1072/29-6-2016, on the situation in the Hellenic Defence Systems, is not being discussed due to the impediment of the Minister, Mr. Vitsas, because of the commitments made. The third, with number 1082/4-7-2016, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on ensuring the necessary equipment for the five school units in the Municipality of Rethymno, is not discussed due to an impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, due to the commitments made. Under number 1056/28-6-2016, the fifth topical question of the second cycle of the Eotolokarnania Parliamentary Coalition, Mr. Maria Triantafyllou to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, concerning the completion of the work of Marina Mesologios, is not discussed due to the impediment of Minister Koudoura, due to the commitments made. The eighth Question No 907/25-5-2016 by Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos on the progress of the development of the former airport of Greece, is not discussed due to the obstruction of Minister Tsakalotos, which will be in Brussels. The twelfth, under number 1048/27/2016, a top-level question by the MP for the Independent Greeks, Mr. Vassilis Kossilis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning "the disastrous and unjust requirement of the IEDC for payment of an arrogant and unjust fine to businesses that had been closed during the crisis and are now seeking to be activated", is not discussed due to the impediment of Minister Skourletis, due to a workload. The tenth third, with number 1050/27/2016, is a topical question of the second question of the Member of Parliament Evros of the New Democracy, Mr Anastasios State, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the upgrading of the Garden Customs and the exploitation of the prospects of the points of entry and exit to Evros, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister, Alexiadis, which will be in Brussels. The fourteenth under number 1015-17-2016 topical question of the second question of the Member of Parliament of the Union of Centres Mr Georgios Katsasantonis to the Minister of Finance concerning the statements by the Head of Eurogroup, Mr Düsselblum, on the non-viability of the Greek programme, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance, Mr Tsakalotos, which will be in Brussels. The fifteenth, under number 1034/21-6-2016, a topical question by the Independent MEP, Mr. Eftathiou (Stathia) Panagoulis, on the cost of the representatives of the institutions in the public sector, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister, Mr. Tsakalotos, who will be in Brussels. The sixth sixth, with number 1003/14-6-2016, is a topical question for the second parliamentary party of the Communist Party of Greece. Diamonds Manolakos to the Minister of Health, on the operational problems at the Anticancer Hospital of "Metaxas", is not being discussed due to the impediment of the Minister, Mr. Polakis, due to a workload. The eighteenth under number 899/23-5-2016 topical question of the second question of the New Democracy MP Christos Bukouros to the Minister of Health, concerning the exclusion of Volos Hospital from the ESDP programme, is not being discussed due to the impediment of the Minister, Mr. Paulis, due to a workload. The nineteenth under number 708/28-3-2016 topical question of the second question by MP Phytiotidas of New Democracy Mr Christos Stakouras to the Minister of Health, on the question of dealing with the problems of the General Hospital of Lamia, is not being discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of State, Mr Polakis, due to a workload. The first question of Questions - Question No 5192/5-2016 by Mr Gerasios Giakoumatos to the Minister of Health, concerning the problems of Manzavinate Hospital in Lixouri, is not being discussed due to the impediment of the Minister, Mr. Paulis, due to a workload. The second question by MP Attica of the Democratic Integration PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Health, on problems in the operation of the operating rooms of the Elefsina General Hospital of Thriasio, is not discussed due to the impediment of Minister Polakis, due to a workload. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Thursday 5 May 2016 have been distributed and the House is asking whether they have been ratified.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u153	The Minutes of Thursday 5 May 2016 (in the afternoon) were therefore validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-11-S1-commons.u154	With the consent of the House at 20.41' the sitting on Thursday, 14 July 2016 at 9.30', on the subject of this House's work: (a) legislative work and (b) parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate, according to the agenda distributed.
