ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would like to start by expressing the grief of the Greek Parliament for last night's unspeakable tragedy to friend France. I would also like to express our support and solidarity with the French people, with the French citizens, with French society. I am absolutely certain that free societies will win and hatred will be defeated. Minister, do you want to say something?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, that is exactly what I intended to say. At the first sitting of the House following the appalling incident in Nice, France, on behalf of the Government, I would also like to express our disappointment at such blind acts of terrorism. I would like to express our grief for the dead and the victims, our full support for the winterer, once again with such issues, French people. I would like to express our support, with all possible means, for the victims concerned and to say - you said so too - that this type of blows instead of beating the democratic mind and strengthening it. I believe that if all the people together become involved in the protection of democracy, such cases will cease to exist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Minister. I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Eight topical questions will be discussed. The second question will be discussed under number 1115/11-7-2016 of the new Republic MP Evros Evros, Anastasios Pschakis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the operation of the Byzantine Dumot Museum. The current question will be answered by Minister Aristides Baltas. Here, Mr. Colleague, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, our prayers today are dedicated to the people of France and its victims. The European Union and France must open the wings of victory against any anachronistic and dark idealism, which is trying at times to enter within the European Union and dismantle it. Minister, our cultural and cultural heritage, the processes relating to our culture and the features that make it a key tool for the stability, development and raising of the Greek people in difficult times. Evros has the blessing of being sown with many important monuments from all the great periods of Greek history, especially as regards the area of the Dimotikos, from the long Byzantine period. In order to highlight this wealth, the Municipality of Dumotech granted a plot of five and a half acres, where the Byzantine Museum of Dumotech was erected, in a multi-street 2,470 sq.m., with an academic and tourist object, i.e. workshops and exhibition respectively. Unfortunately, although the museum building has been completed and its various preparation processes have been essentially completed, this has not been implemented. It is characteristic that no administration has yet been designated, and in terms of staff, only a few months ago, four guards were hired as contractors. At the same time, the museum is ready for the public and its exhibits placed. Since the Byzantine Museum of Twins is a unique acquisition for the city and the inhabitants of the Twins, as well as for the whole of Evros, but also offers special development prospects, I asked you the main question of the timely question we are discussing. When will the Byzantine Museum of Twins function and be made available to the public? When will an administration be appointed and will the staff be recruited to make use of this real jewelry? And what else do you design as a Ministry for this Museum? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, thank you for your question. Questions like these help to be better understood in the Parliament and from there to the Greek people issues relating to our cultural wealth, the depth of our historical heritage and the needs to highlight these elements of our identity, not just to have something to show, not just to visit tourists, but mainly to make local development elements in all its forms and to strengthen our international presence. I agree with you that Evros, like all the regions of the country, has a huge wealth to show in this direction. About the museum: The erecting work was completed in 2010. He was then received by the Ministry of Culture. From then on, as of 2011, the procedures for the permanent exhibition, museums, museum studies, collection of objects and so on began. In 2011 they started with the project's integration into the Operational Programme "Macedonia - Thrace 2007-2013". The building, however, had many problems: erosion, detachment of external coatings, plasters, etc., and due to the wet climate of the area. In this way, additional improvements have been needed, which have taken time to carry out this work with the little staff we have in these cases. On December 31, last year, this work and the musical, musical study were completed at the same time. The work of olive-colouring, plate fixing of the entrance plates is now being completed and the environment is being properly shaped, clean, which is now ending. The forecast by the tax office, in particular, is that it will be opened for the public in August 2016. We're getting closer. These seem a little too much, perhaps, to be needed, in other words, for so many years for these kinds of jobs. But you know that the staff are too little and the country is in crisis. It is therefore extremely difficult to hire, even with fixed-term contracts, people to speed up procedures. Such formal issues, let us say, are delays for such reasons in various regions of the country and in various similar projects. With this, however, we are pleased to announce that in the summer of August 2016, we will be opening for the public. I'll tell the rest of it in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much for the information, Minister. I would like to state that the local municipality is at the disposal of your partners at local and prefectural level to provide all necessary assistance. In this context, however, there is also a people who, in fact, are available and sensitive to this voluntary disposition. However, Minister, I would like to say that the projects have been completed. I visited the Museum. If we go tomorrow morning with the key in the hand, we can open and welcome our guests. I think that your decisions, which must be made, are now in your hands in order to serve this Museum with the relevant staff, even with temporary movements, in order to function. As you said, in fact, the Dumotech is a way of some cultural capital of Thrace: Plotinopolis, Castle, Byzantine and modern sacred temples of Orthodoxy, Byzantine and Ottoman monuments make up a cultural canvas. That is why the Byzantine Museum is so important as a crown of this wealth. Indeed, it is a masterpiece, both in terms of real estate and exhibits, which have been placed. However, Evros has a unique wealth of monuments and finds from almost all the periods of Hellenism, from ancient times to the Holy Sacred of the Great Gods in Samothraki, to the folklore of the Soufli. With this in mind, we are calling for the immediateest possible placement of the permanent herd of antiquities in the capital, Alexandroupolis. The presence of this factor is essential to us, because it has a very broad subject. Of course, the temporary commissioner, which also covers our prefecture from Rhodope, is making very serious efforts, is making friendly efforts in this direction and we are giving it credit. But you must place the final curator of the county. I would also like to inform you that in progress it is also the completion of the Alexandroupolis Museum. I think you had also planned parallel events so that it would not be left as a building anymore to its fate until the project of placement of the exhibits is completed and not just. Also, a year ago in this Chamber we discussed with your predecessor Mr. Xydakis about the archaeological site of the Little Doxipara. Indeed, we are on a marginal level. If you do not take action and do not make decisions, unfortunately, this burial tomb is destroyed by weather phenomena. I would also like you to inform us what is happening with the Samothrace Museum and, Minister, you have a great treasure in your hands. I would like to remind you of the Samothrace Victory, which I referred to at the beginning, Mr President, that the Samothrace Victory is indeed a jewel, which is currently in the Louvre Museum. The institutional services of Samothrace, the Municipality of Samothrace, the Municipality of Alexandroupolis with their resolutions, the Region of East Macedonia and Thrace with its resolution, the Regional Association of Mayors of East Macedonia and Thrace, the Samothracite Associations of Athens, Thessaloniki, Evros and Germany, were asked to adopt it as a symbol of the principles and values of Europe, with regard to all totalitarian, anachronistic and dark idea that is at times attempting to enter the European Union. I think that's a grown-up idea. We have a complaint because you should introduce it to your counterparts and make their decision. And just because you're going to discuss with your counterparts about such a masterpiece, we're projecting it and we're giving it the value it deserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr Prussakis. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u11	Thank you. I have here the list of projects in progress for the Prefecture of Evros: As you said, an extension of the exhibition to the Archaeological Museum of Samothraki, the completion of the building program at the Museum of Alexandroupolis, which has joined the NSRF 2014-2020, the design of the integrated spatial investment for the route of Ennatia in the region of eastern Macedonia and Thrace, where many projects with an axis will be incorporated, which will somehow connect them and highlight them in relation to the others. Also, the restoration of the post-Byzantine temple of Saint Athanasios the Municipality of Dimotech and the formation of the archaeological site of the metropolitan church, with a budget that was absorbed and progressed. In the fort of Pythion there are extensive works, which continue earlier NSRWs, as well as in the Monastery of Christ in Samothraki for the fixing and protection of the sanctuary, the work has been completed, as well as the promotion of the Ottoman Lutro Uruts Pasha, which has been integrated into the territorial cooperation programme of Greece - Bulgaria 2007-2013. We're moving on. These are indicative as you understand. The resources required for the realisation of our heritage as a whole are great. The Ministry of Culture does not select the same projects because it does not have its own resources, it does not have its own ESDP programme. So it starts in the district. He proposes some things, he has our assent, he goes on to join. But all this is very little in terms of the needs, which exist to highlight our heritage with such depths of time and such different times of history, such wealth at all levels. Our aim is to ensure that these initiatives are developed as symmetrically as possible on the scale of the whole of Greece. Fortunately, with the district managers we are discussing, the perception is gradually becoming extremely commonly accepted by both sides, namely that the monuments of culture are not just passive monuments that are there for a tourist to go, see, admire this place and leave, but are real pillars of culture, because with the modern concept of museums the museum opens its gates to children, families, with special programmes. New technologies can be received and technologies can be developed for the development of our cultural stock and cultural treasures. At the same time, the museum or the ancient Greek space becomes a place that can be found in dialogue with the archaeological site, there can be actions that concern the local society as a whole, its food, its customs, its functions. So, really, the development, let's say, the emergence and protection of our cultural heritage is literally a global pillar for the development of the country, a country's identity point in a dangerous region, peace and coexistence of cultures. In this logic an idea of the press, the Nike of Samothrace as a symbol as you presented it, is interesting at first level. It just has a few moments, because Samothrace's Victory is in Louvre, as you said. To suggest that we become a symbol of this friendship. Something that is in Louvre has some diplomatic and other problems, but we are willing to discuss such an idea if we look at all the dimensions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, there are three topical questions which are addressed to the Minister of Finance. All three will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr. Tree Alexiadis. We proceed with the fifth timely question under number 112-12-2016, first cycle of MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks, Dimitrios Kammenos, on the case of the company "MARINOPOULOS S.A.". Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much. Mr President, Minister, it is a difficult day. All minds are in the eighty three victims of the heinous terrorist attack in Nice, France, on the day of the Bastille fall. It's a crime that needs to trouble us all. Our minds are found in the relatives and victims of this attack. At the same time, I want to make an observation within my time. I had a conversation yesterday with my nineteen-year-old daughter on the release of the monster father, who kept his child raped by his partner and released himself. I couldn't explain why, my nineteen-year-old daughter. While he was disabled, he kept his twelve - year - old son raped by his partner with the same disability and let him go home on restrictive terms. I, too, challenge the Minister for Justice to reconsider, as he has rethinked the 'SIEMENS' case. We are going to vote for the seventeen years, and at the same time these ages have questions that I as a father cannot solve. We're moving on to the question. Minister, the issue of Marinopoulos is extremely important for the Greek government and the Greek society. This is about 12 and a half thousand employees. I'll tell my denture about the obligations to IKA, banks, suppliers. It's a huge matter. However, what emerges from a complaint from the law firm "KONSTANTINOU & BRITTAS", appears to the owners, the brothers, Marinopoulos, have a fund in Qatar to which they have transferred their real estate titles of EUR 750 million. Let's talk about the basic numbers. Suppliers owe about 720 million, about 105 million to employees, insurance companies and public companies and about 500 million to banks. In Qatar, they seem to have 750 million in private placement, in private fund to protect their real estate, while fraudulent going bankrupt into Article 99. With Article 99, as you and I know very well, none of the others are protected. You ask, Mr Minister: will you conduct a thorough review of the movable and immovable property of shareholders, relatives of the first degree, and of all natural persons and legal persons of Marinopoulos S.A.? I insist on the surrogate faces. Do you intend to follow the procedure to all the other companies under bankruptcy? Many will be done in a treacherous way, like this. Have responsibilities of previous governments been investigated in 2008-2014 on graceful loans, following political intervention? I say this because there are complaints in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. I have to say that today we all feel French. We feel that such problems with their size prove that they cannot be tackled with nationalistic logic and with reasonable isolationism, but with reasonable cooperation between all European forces and states. As regards the question of your question, Mr Papoutsis, yesterday we were discussing the question of Elefsina Shipyards, today we are discussing the subject of 'Marinopoulos'. We are talking about problems that have been created by a previous development model, which are now coming and'scan' as we say in our neighborhood. We must deal with them and sometimes also take criticism and attacks from politicians and from those policies that have been put in place to lead to this model of development, this model of entrepreneurship, which predicted (at a general level) entrepreneurs who are rich abroad, will have their money abroad, while in Greece their debts will have. The total problem of the company concerned is about 1.5 billion. In other words, it owes about 1.5 billion, a nightmare, considering what the Greek State is forced to do for a number of hundreds of millions and what the price is forced to get. At the moment, the government has been trying to ensure that the workers of companies involved in the business are involved, because they are specifically the limits that the government can make - first of all, to ensure these twelve and a half thousands of workers - trying to ensure that they are involved in the company, which is likely to be in a smaller number, to smaller unions and with a smaller voice and to learn and to learn about their problems, trying to tackle the problem of not having such a credit event on the market, which is a major event, with multiple consequences. It is not only the 1.5 billion, it is what will happen on the market if all these businesses who expected to take money cannot be paid and eventually led to adventures. You ask a right question as to whether the responsibilities of the previous governments have been investigated. From next week in plenary or in the Committee on Economic Affairs, it would be good if they were responsible for administering these things to tell us how they accepted these balance sheets and proceeded with lending or moving on to other situations. It is interesting to answer these issues. However, with regard to the issue of tax controls, for which we are responsible, there is no way either in this case or anywhere else that we do not get rid of all the possibilities we have for fiscal control and for external money, the controls and specific complaints we have on other issues are carried out. I will put forward a number of documents for the Minutes to be detailed and not to eat your time, concerning the document of the Ministry of Economy and Tourism, on the subject of the investment you refer to in your question, the document of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights on what is being done legally in this case, the document of the Department of Finance, the service that the ILO has replaced on the issues of controlling these cases, and the document of the Audit Directorate for these matters. In conclusion, I say that, as a Ministry of Finance, in the areas of tax control, we are going to run out of the possibility either of moving money abroad or of the other issues that you have raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor to answer for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u17	Minister, the most important thing is, as you quite rightly say, to monitor the fingerprints of the movement of money from personal accounts, first degrees of family and adolescents and, at the same time, to withdraw the transfer of the fixed assets. Because if the fixed assets leave, as is the case in the prosecution of the law office, 750 million in Qatar, then we will not have anything, which will be able to liquidate anyone who needs to collect their claim against this obvious fraudulent bankruptcy. We're talking about a company that made 1.5 billion turnover. Banks give loans because they see cash. They see he's got money on the fund, he's getting cash, he's collecting cash and he's paying after six to eight months. The mistake was that the French came in and was Prime Minister, Mr Samaras, and just before. I know why we were in the market. Then the problems began and many suppliers cut off their relationship with "CARREFOUR - MARINOPOULOS". They cut the relationship because they didn't pay. For four years there has been the problem and the market knows it. Four years ago! We've given up time, because the banks when they've given up 500 million and they see money in the cashier, cashiers, they'll give a loan to get the claim first. But from there on, we're talking about eight hundred shops and two thousand suppliers. This isn't a bubble. It will be done in the case of Alter and Giannikos. There was much less money, it was 200 million, and now we are talking about 720 million to suppliers, two thousand businesses, which because the economy is connected containers, there is no way that we will not have a huge problem in the Greek economy. Our government will have to find a creative solution and not to throw away the ball below to find it in time at this time and nothing will happen to us to have the problem this year. Minister, we have the problem this year. We don't have time, as long as I know beyond 15-20 September. It is specifically the timetables for this case and how it should be resolved, we should be very careful. It could - and I will testify to my idea of how this problem could be solved - all the property and movable assets of Marinopoulos to be transferred to a new company in which all the creditors are shareholders. We've done it on the outside many times when we do recovery and clearing and resettling companies. To be all creditors. To become a Greek company, which will be purely Greek, will enter all the fixed and all the requirements. Those who require Marinopoulos to be shareholders of the new company on the real estate and movable property. To enter shareholders and the Greek suppliers and the Greek factories producing honey, sugars, glasses, everything and not to pay for the shelf's pimp, are paid out from their pocket. If someone takes it seriously, and if anyone asks me, I'll tell him how it should be done, because I've done it five times in my life that particular plan. So the company's gonna be giggling, we're gonna save the jobs, and we're gonna clean up the bubble called the shelf. Because this moment, when you go to the supermarket and you pay the shelf, five times your product in the fixed and inflexible costs someone has to put his product on the shelf, that's a bubble. He's gonna shut up sometime. Bank financing is on this bubble, because the product has in it the cost of managing, storing, advertising and sewing. That is what I am saying, because we have solved it abroad, not Greece. I would ask you very much to be very thorough in terms of your own mandate, your authority at the Ministry. Don't let this account get out of line, don't move anything to anyone, block everything until it's clear. I'm telling you we don't have time. The case must be closed on 20 September. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Papoutsis, you have properly analysed the whole issue and explained the issues that I do not have to add to these issues, namely how an entrepreneurship that does not honour the country has led us here with political tolerance and specific policies that have been carried out over the years. We will consider the proposal you have tabled. Of course, this proposal also presupposes the involvement of other business groups and the acceptance of too many businesses in this story. It's not something simple, but it's a very good proposal. As far as the Greek Government is concerned, the Greek Government is at the moment, as I said, trying not to create problems with the twelve and a half thousand jobs of the company, not to create problems with the thousands of workers in the other companies, who will have serious problems, not to create problems for the companies, which must pay VAT, HISPIA and a number of other tax obligations, while the company will not have taken the trouble for the products and services that they have given, and finally, to ensure the interests of the Greek public. For all this we are working, we are above the problem at the first moment and you can be sure that we will do everything we can to deal with the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Minister. Following is the third 1121/11-7-2016 topical question by MP II Athens of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Finance, on the unconstitutional provision on the rights of the taxpayer. Mr. Loverdos has the floor for two minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. To begin with, I would like to express the grief, anger and indignation of all the members and members of the Democratic Alliance for the tragic event yesterday in France. I should like to stress, Mr President, that this phenomenon of blind violence, blood violence, will continue. It will have a reference centre, as they all show, Europe and it will combine with all the causes of refugee and immigration in the countries of Asia and the Mena region. He's not gonna stop. The victims are, and there'll be a lot of them. The West must somehow rethink the question of terrorism, its causes and take the relevant initiatives. We cannot be spectators and observers, and it is enough for us to express our condolences. Now, in relation to my question. Minister, what are these things? Have you submitted a regulation where the tax review - is now in the draft law - is ordered by the administration and is only allowed if it is at the expense of the taxpayer? What if the taxpayer's right? The tax administration must not rethink it? Are our services so impeccable that mistakes are made only at the expense of the public and not at the expense of the taxpayers? Do you know the Constitution in Article 4(1) and (5) what it defines for the equality of citizens with regard to the law and for the participation in burdens according to the powers of everyone? In fact, it comes from the rapporteur's report - with one word that you have made clear - that your aim is to cover past cases and, in particular, one, which is a matter of time to erupt the economic and political scandal behind it. I am told that this regulation interferes with the work of justice in open affairs and felonies. I was also informed by "RIZOPASTI" and by the newspaper "KONTRA" that this was what you had in your intentions and asked the timely question whether I might wake you if you didn't know and file this provision with the sinner. And since the many words are poverty, I will read, Mr President, three series from "RIZOPASTI": "The questions are created, because they are many people who see this provision", which I say, "a photographic provision aimed at providing asylum to certain IRS officials, given that the case is currently under way in Northern Greece, which concerns a criminal prosecution procedure by public prosecutors, who are accused of violating duty in order to benefit some of the illegal assets and harm others". Attention. SOS for you, Minister, about what is going on behind this sinful provision. You'll be exposed. Mr Alexiadis, you are asked by the citizens. Fair play. They haven't done this during your period, but you're going to cover them up. I expect with real curiosity, real curiosity, not rhetorical curiosity what you're going to tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Respecting your legal studies - because I have studied financially - I will overcome 'what things are these' and will not go into a confrontation on this matter. I've just learned legal through my course at the Treasury and in all the tax cases I've seen. I find a 1994 law codified according to Law 4203/13 here. It's n. Regulation (EC) No 2238/94. What's he saying? Control sheet, and even if it was made definitive, does not exclude the issue and notification of a supplementary sex check, if: Not if it's less. If it goes beyond. However, because you have been accuseed and implied, if you go to the trouble and read the report of this provision, which has been submitted and which will be debated comfortably next week and in committee and in plenary, it goes without saying: 'It is clear that in order to carry out a review, the new information is required to be in any case conspicuous and not data which reduces the tax debt determined during the initial audit'. Mr Loverdos, I am not saying what was going on in Greece, because the tax services have a history here and you were a member of governments that have been involved and co-responsibility if anything happened. Let me remind you that there was 'private', not just 'emulsions' in some of the provisions that came to Parliament and that certain enterprises or branches or anything else were favoured. Let me remind you, too, that in some cases re-checks had become no to pay more. There were such provisions within the House. I have tabled such a provision in the Minutes. So, here, what does this provision say? That Alexiadis will be able to ask for re-checking on a case - "x" Alexiadis, because I do not have the opportunity to ask for any case under the law, and I do not have it - if the new elements are aggravating - that is required in any case - and not in any case - and not in any case - to reduce the tax debt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u24	That's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u25	Yeah. So you disagree that the re-checker should only be made by the agency if he is burdensome and not by the taxpayer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u26	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u27	Wait a minute. The taxpayer - because that is what you say - if he has the same information and asks for a re-check, of course, and there is a procedure in the Dispute Settlement Directorate to produce the new information to the court as well. However, do you want a tax administration, which will itself order re-elections, to benefit the taxpayer or to be charged? So we...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u28	What if he's wrong?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u29	But I told you, if the taxpayer is right, he can ask for a re-check. This provision, however, goes on to cover cases where re-checking will only be ordered when the new elements are aggravating, precisely in order to avoid situations where anyone who requests re-checking in a case to benefit the taxpayer. These morbid phenomena we want to close. Now, as far as the complaints you have said, under no circumstances - we have proved that - we do not want to cover anyone. I will examine today's complaints in the Committee on Economic Affairs as well as in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs - I think it is Tuesday. I have been informed of this - you will have a full answer. There's no way we can do anything to cover anyone. There's no way. Please, if there is any Member of this Parliament or any citizen who has anything specific to report - I said it yesterday - we are told by name, anonymously, in any way you want. There is no way we can cover anyone, either family or politics or any other relationship we have or anyone who is or wherever they are. Asylum and unbelievable for tax services is nowhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u30	Yes, sir. Minister, in your dentistry the others. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u31	Minister, haven't you seen the move of things? Didn't you hear the Prime Minister last night in his apology before the Greek people on his departure? You're counting time. Time counts backwards. And you bring this regulation to this critical and difficult time and you dare defend it? Is it your creation, Minister, or your services? Here with what you're saying, it seems to be your creation. Is this a matter that mobilizes you because it's about Kavala's operation? Because the crooks there are in this case. This is a fraud of several hundred million. Apart from the absurdity of the fact that the taxpayer can only ask for a review to be carried out in addition to the post, the unproven that he does and laughter, that the public can only make a mistake when he is against the citizen, while when he is in favour of the citizen he is never wrong - these posts are posts that life has rejected them - there is a scandal that the retroactiveness of the wording of the report goes on to cover it. Don't tell me you don't know which horse business is being controlled. Not to mention that you do not know that the Chief Tax Service of Northern Greece, who ordered control, new control over this case, is being held in custody, following a mandate given by the Prosecutor of Corruption of Northern Greece to check for a series of cases for ten years, including this one. Don't say you don't know. I'm not a populist. I have here the decision of the Prosecutors' Office of Thessaloniki for two specific officials who have done the re-checking of this case, which I am referring to not by implied, but by explicit reference. I'm just not saying the names. In the case of a breach of duty, these two are referred, on their own initiative, to the Office of the Prosecutor of Thessaloniki. I don't testify. I don't want to put out the names. They're indicted. They haven't been convicted yet. But are you their political leader and bring this provision here? Do not tell me that you want information from us because, as you are now saying here, you do not know the political extension of this economic scandal, which was also played by SYRIZA in the run-up to the elections during and before the September elections. You know that. You don't want me to know. You know it well. Because a lot is happening in Northern Greece in relation to this case, but also with others - and the Justice has done very well there and the competent prosecutors of corruption have been mobilised - do not make the mistake and keep this provision. At least have the elementary political intelligence to withdraw it. I hope that if you do not have this elementary political intelligence to withdraw it, one of your Chiefs or the Government Secretariat will listen to this debate and be interested. He won't stay here. You'll hear them from elsewhere. There are other parties that have been mobilised in this case. Make sure you're not exposed. With regard to the great rights of the taxpayer, who will remain in his hands in order to deal with these issues, Minister, do not joke about the suffering of people. You're pushing him to justice. In justice, however, the taxpayer takes time to find his point and wants money. Don't do that. You're wrong. The administration can also make a mistake when it comes to serving the public interests, but also when it comes to serving the taxpayer's interests. The politician has equal distances against this. It also gives one and the other rights, whether in terms of deadlines or of weapons of defence against the public. These are classics, Minister, and leave the references to the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u33	I, Mr Loverdos, have not been used to either gala or Macedonian courtesy - because I am from Kavala - in order to think that when such heavy expressions are heard, nothing has been said. What you said today is very serious and because you are very often trying to avoid the past and what has happened, particularly in tax policy, and to resort to complaints, I am making it clear: by Tuesday in the Committee on Economic Affairs you will have a full answer on this matter and on what you have complained about. But at some point in this Chamber will you answer us for the big party that took place on taxation matters in the past few years? Will you answer what responsibilities were there? Will you respond to the amendments you have brought here to serve business? For the specific check you said and with unique knowledge that it has been published in the press and because I am from Kavala and I know people and situations, what do you think? That the auditors did their job well, or that they didn't do their job well?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u34	We'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u35	Take a seat, because this is where you step on two boats. Are you defending the operation?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u36	You take a stand in favour of one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u37	I understand the irritation, but I didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u38	I understand why you're fantastic.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u39	So I'm saying...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u40	You take a stand in favour of one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u41	Mr President, is that how you want the debate to take place?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u42	Mr Minister, avoid questions as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u43	I don't understand. When Mr. Loverdos asks questions, can I intrude?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u44	I'm saying you're answering questions and causing answers. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u45	What will it say 'provoke', Mr President? We are talking in Parliament. What does it say 'provoke'? How I answer that is my case. Whether I'm interrupting or not is your obligation. Otherwise, I should be interrupting others when they ask questions. As far as my word is concerned, I will say what I think is right and will have to be answered by the parliamentary procedure. So I say on this point: do not tell me that you are not aware - I am inverse - of what has happened in this particular case, of the involvement of policies from the New Democracy and PASOK in the control of specific cases in northern Greece, of what was done with prisons, research and so on. Don't tell me you don't know about this stuff. And because you have used the word 'did'. Do you dare today come and blame the government for trying to reveal all cases of tax evasion and smuggling when you participated in governments with specific legislative work, with specific administration in tax services? We therefore make it clear that neither in this case in Kavala nor in any other case will we be pleased to see anyone. We will protect the auditors from a press and complaint industry, because we have such situations in too many cases. We'll protect the auditors. We will not spare anyone, whether taxly or taxly, in the work to be done. The interests of the Greek State are above anyone else. The unanswered political questions, however, are to be blamed for you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Minister. Next is the fourth under number 1113/11-7-2015 topical question by Independent MEP II Athens Efstathios Panagoulis to the Minister of Finance, concerning recent reports on the undeclared activity of Greek betting online companies. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, you will allow me, before entering the question that I have asked the Ministry of Finance, to address two sad historic moments relating to Hellenism. One is the Cyprus tragedy, because forty-two years ago today, on 15 July 1974, the Turkish invasion of Cyprus took place. Unfortunately, no UN decision has yet been fulfilled. And the other one we lived together, Mr President, as teenagers, was the royal coup on 15 July 1965. And now I'm going to ask the same question. It is well known, Mr President - and Mr Alexiadis is well aware of this - that more than twenty-four online betting companies are on the Internet and billions of euros are gone, Minister - and I say exactly billions of euros - to these companies. For the truth, in 2012, Mr President, I had asked Mr Alexiades' predecessors, to the previous government, about the profits and the receipts that the OPAP had here. From 2007 - listen to these, Mr Alexiadis - by 2012 were more revenues, sales of the OPS from EUR 5 billion a year. For five years it was 25 billion. And the net profits - with the party held in the OPCW at those times - were 3 billion euros. By analysts, by authoritative magazines and newspapers, such as "ENICA", the newspaper "DIMMOCRATIA" we learn that now the betting made via the internet is greater and you have confessed here to a previous question, which had been made to you, that the taxation of these companies in 2012 was EUR 31,000, in 2013 it was about 5,000 euros and in 2014 it was 27,000 euros, when the OPAP had paid 1.5 billion euros in such periods in the state in three years. You know, Minister, that at the time we are living today - which you have taxed everything that is flying, that your government has impoverished the Greek people, who every month sees the pensioner and the hired person cutting it 5, 10, 15, 20 euros - you come and leave these companies uncontrolled. You'll tell me what to do. I'll tell you, Minister. Stamp the internet, as America has done, so that they cannot play in these companies, which have strange, Mr President, tax havens: the Faroe Islands, Malaysia and Malta. In fact, the Maltese Prime Minister had been accused of participating in such a company some time ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u48	Colleague, let's take a look at the rest of the dentistry, because we've already gotten away.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u49	I shall finish, Mr President. It's a big deal. And when - as soon as yesterday - we see that they have new cars taxed since 2017, and we see that they are escaping every year, taxing and losing billions while they could be captured. The tax evasion made by these companies, Minister, is two ENPI per year. That's the reality. I shall return, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Papoutsis, I will agree with you on the analysis of the problems the Greek State has with these companies. I do not agree with what you have said on the subject of controls. I'm going to file certain particulars. I do not agree, too, with regard to the issue you have raised, that we are putting more taxation on cars. Do not get carried away from the news releases of the eight and some media, which even in the morning when the sun comes out, trying to convince it's night because it suits them to hit the government. Don't get carried away from them. Read exactly the law. We will have the opportunity next week to discuss this bill, in which, for example, what we are doing for cars is to classify them not on the date the used people came to Greece, but on the basis of the date they were released in Europe. That's not a burden. It's a relief. Let's say that. You won't hear it, of course, in a lot of news reports. You will not read it on certain websites, even on approved financial sites, which inform about the course of banks and businesses and others. You won't hear that. But it's a reality. I say this again: I am not talking about the press as a whole, because there is a media that honours their role and is doing their job very well, also criticising the government. We want criticism. We don't want information. As far as the substance of the question is concerned, there are two arms. One part is the issue of licensing these companies. At the moment the companies are operating on the basis of a 2011 law. They do not sit at the headquarters of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL, the ones who brought this institutional framework. Other seats are seated, and at some point they must respond here to the institutional framework, which we inherited and delayed to change, and we must change it. On the basis of this institutional framework, therefore, a company can have its tax head office established abroad, have its server installed and all its machines abroad and, in fact, make fun of the Greek State, because you quite rightly said, on the basis of the information in the reply I gave in the corresponding question on 7 January, that I had given all the information on these issues, which seemed to be the small tax burden of these companies. So there are two issues. One is the issue of licensing, which is not my competence, it is the responsibility of another minister and we must go ahead with licensing, go to the definitive regime, make it clear exactly how we are going to operate and stop this process of temporaryity of the twenty-four companies, which is a mockery for the revenues of the Greek public and creates a whole lot of problems and we cannot control them unfortunately because they are based on that law. One is the issue of licensing. We shall now proceed to the issue of tax control. I will not agree with you that we are doing nothing about tax control. I hardly think that we have done everything we can, of course, under the law, because the law is specific. We can't do anything. You will see from a document from the Audit Directorate that we have done everything we can to launch tax controls. You will see in the Minutes the document of the Ministry of Finance, which has been published since 22 April, where we have within the twenty-four companies in which we have started tax control. You'll see through a document from the Anti-Fraud and Legislation Authority and what it says. You will see a document from the International Monetary Fund, which mentions the audit launched before the audit order, as I mentioned before, to specific companies on these issues. You will also see a document of the ILO which has also started this in its field of competence. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Trif Alexiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So to sum up. The question of the suspension of the temporary regime and of going to final authorisation is something that is before us and must be done quickly in order to close this issue. The issue of tax controls has already begun, with the greatest speed that we can have and with the enforcing of all the powers that the Ministry of Finance has - they are not inexhaustible - at fiscal and audit level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u53	Minister, I am not completely satisfied with your reply. Indeed, you were right to say that this unacceptable provision was made in 2011. You and your government, which is about two years in power, what have you done to abolish this provision? Absolutely nothing. And I would like you to tell me which Greeks are involved in these betting companies, which are giving hundreds of millions and billions. Because I myself also believe that the information that has been written - but it may not be correct - that the revenues of these twenty-four - which are not only twenty-four, are far more companies than the revenues of the OPCW. And we come, as I said before, to cut off the popular layers, to sell 'TRAINOSE' instead of EUR 45 000. Until, Mr President, there is a chance that Charilaos Trikoupis might be resurrected. TRAINOSE was sold instead of EUR 45 million. The EUR 45 000,000, Minister, could have been in a week's time from the taxation of these unpaid bet companies. Mr President, do you know that the four and a half thousand agencies operating throughout Greece and employing some twenty thousand workers have suffered heavy taxation? They have been subjected to heavy taxation, because you are taxing them with about 70%. I therefore think that a way needs to be found immediately and decisively to abolish the 2011 law. And I want you to tell me, because he's escaping me right now, who was the minister who brought this law. I think you'll remember, because you'll have it in front of you. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to say that the betting companies today are harming the Greek public, the Greek budget, with billions of euros. Don't look strange to you, Minister. I read to you the data provided by the previous residents of the Ministry of Finance in 2012 and that was EUR 25,000,000 in five years for the collections, sales of the OPCW. They are similar today. So you have no excuse. You can call the Act of 2011 your previous predecessor, Minister. You temporarily - take care of this - tamper these companies. How can the American citizen not play online? And what happens if you do this? The profits of the OPCW will be increased and you will receive the tax on it. I want you to tell me something, because I don't remember the number, that the OPAP in 2015 paid taxes about 700 million to the Greek State. Is that true? I wonder if we abolish these bet companies, the tax paid by the OPCW, because it will also increase its receipts, will be 1.5 billion. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u55	I would like to say again, Mr Papoutsis, that the responsibility for this matter is not mine. So it's all about Alexiadis, we've heard that too many times, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u56	I didn't say it was your fault.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u57	Yes, but you're coming back to the issue of permits. The issue of online betting is not in my responsibilities. It is the responsibility of another Minister, so I cannot talk about this - the general direction of your government - nor can we move on to what you said, block the Internet or do something like that because they operate on the basis of a piece of legislation that the Greek Parliament has passed. You know very well and who has voted and who has defended it and who will come next week to tell us about these things. But let's get through this. We cannot give the names, which Greeks are behind them, because they are legal persons established abroad. In other words, they are foreign-owned companies. Because that gave the great and the railway legislation, so we cannot afford to give which Greeks are behind. Of course, we are a very small country, we all know each other, and we know very well what is going on. I am not wrong with these entrepreneurs who chose this way to do this, because that was the framework of the law. Just for some we know, but for some others we don't know at all who's behind some companies. As far as the issues with the OPCW agencies are concerned, we are in constant contact with both the OPCW and the OPCW agencies, we have constant contact with their federation, we know their problems, we are at their side and we work with them on all matters. The role of both the government and their trade unions is specific. We have agreements and disagreements, but we are in cooperation and we are well aware of the problems and issues and overtaxation, both of which have competition problems and a number of other problems. In relation to the income from the OPAP, I do not have the data with me, but of course the tax burden of the OPAP shows that what we could have, whether from income tax, from gambling tax or from a number of other taxes, if there was a similar legal form, installation in Greece, etc. In this respect, I told you before that we were late, we need to take it faster and close it. I would like to say, however, that this is the end of the matter. As far as what you said and sometimes sounds in this Chamber, I have answered it, but I will say it again, so that there are no impressions. There is an opinion 'what you are doing about tax evasion, what you are doing about smuggling'. I'm not talking today about smuggling. We'll have all week to give all the evidence and talk. However, for tax evasion, I would like to remind you that in 2015 it was closed with a surplus and in 2016, in the first half, we have 930 million over the budget target, at a time when we know very well what the tax capacity of citizens and businesses is, which we know very well about, the purchasing power of citizens, with the movement on the market. These didn't come because at the Ministry of Finance we put machinery and we print euros. They didn't come that way. These come from big cases of tax evasion and smuggling, come from great checks, come from where we can do something. In the issues of tax evasion, smuggling and corruption, the criterion is not every time to compare what has been done with something that you have in mind and say "it is more or less, good or bad," but every time you have to say "what I could do and what I did." That's the criterion. The criterion of what we could do on the issues of tax evasion, smuggling, corruption, and if we dropped even one point below what happened. The results show that we are far above the target.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the first question under number 112-12-2016 of the First Circuit Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Chrysolas Katsavrias - Siropoulou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the relocation procedures of the National Library of Greece (EBE). The Deputy Minister of State will answer Mr. Theodossis Peglerini. My colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, libraries are part of a cell of society, freedom, knowledge and, therefore, democracy. The National Library is the guardian of our national memory. In October 2016, as has already been announced, it will be handed over to the Greek public of the Cultural Centre “Stavros Niarchos Foundation”. These new state-of-the-art facilities are designed to install and operate the National Library of Greece. This relocation marks a new era in upgrading its services to citizens but also in the decisive role that the National Library can play in developing a national libraries network. With the construction and full equipment of the new facilities in Delta Faliros it is offered the opportunity, in the context of its publicity, to develop its objectives, to become the coordinator of the libraries of the country and to contribute decisively to education, culture, research and innovation. At the same time, however, it also places substantial obligations on the state, necessary for its viability and for its proper and effective functioning. As announced, the amount of EUR 8 million is already secured, covering the obligations of the National Library for the services provided to it by the Centre for Culture, mainly in the completion of the relocation procedures and the maintenance of the facilities of the Centre for 2017. It is true that long before the economic crisis and for many decades, the role of libraries was neglected by the state by depreciating their supply and importance, by subscribing, sub-financing, lack of vision of national policy and planning for libraries. Given the state's abandonment and indifference to the National Library so far, I would like to ask you, Minister, this question, because it has not been announced how the rest of the national Library's budget will be guaranteed, which concerns the coverage of its main services as a National Library, aimed at recording and safeguarding Greek thought and history, as well as the possibility for every citizen to access them. I would therefore ask you, Minister - and I would ask you to inform me about this - what procedures have been carried out by the Ministry of Education in this respect and where they are.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, my colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u61	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for the question. I have to tell you that the Ministry of Education, especially for public libraries - because they are within its competence - has shown a special interest in the first place. Two specialist scientists have been working on the relocation not only for the relocation but also for the organization of all public libraries. As you have rightly said, the National Library, which has to play a national dominant role in our society, has been in a state of abandonment for several years, so that there is no cooperation that should be with other national libraries from other countries, but also that it does not comply with its obligations. We have only been able to give the National Library this year - and this is recognised by the CEO and the President - two million euros so that they can manage the current affairs. The phrase they used is "We are grateful", because in a completely dead time we have been able to strengthen its work. The second thing I wanted to say, because you spoke about subscribing, is that there is indeed a subsubscribing, but we managed to speed up the procedures and thirty-nine scientists to appoint and join the staff of the National Library. As you rightly said, 8m euros were approved for the relocation of the Library from Kallithea University Street at the "Stavros Niarchos Foundation". In addition to this money, however, from October to December the existing needs will be met with the sum of EUR 1,600 000. The relocation will start in October. It was going to start in June, but due to a delay on the part of the Foundation's Board of Directors, it will start in October. I visited the Prime Minister, who I analysed all the programme and the procedure to follow, and the result was the approval of these millions, which you yourself said, and the Prime Minister's visit to the area itself, to determine the needs and the way in which the Library operates. In my dentistry I would like to tell you more about the role that the National Library wants to play in this whole grid of libraries. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. My colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Minister, for the briefing. The fact is that the organization and functioning of the National Library in the new facilities require brave investments in technology, but mainly in the staffing of qualified scientific staff of all specialties, which will enable it to meet its modern upgraded objectives. This, Minister, is an obligation for the state to ensure. With particular pleasure, however, we have heard you mention the broader development and cooperation of all libraries in our country, with the main coordinator and supporter of the National Library, but actions which require a upgraded role for a modern national library. It is of paramount importance to create a national libraries network with the National Library at its centre. The achievement of economies of scale, the dissemination of knowledge and information, the encouragement of horizontal cooperation between libraries and the introduction of innovative methods of developing services and programmes, which each library could not monitor on its own, should be an objective. The redesignation of the way libraries operate using new technologies and the creation of infrastructures and services to ensure equal access to knowledge and information for all citizens constitutes a major investment for the country. The National Library, as the top public body under the Ministry of Education, can play the role of coordinator-guider since it has knowledge, know-how, experience, strategic design, huge stock of spiritual works and modern digital capabilities. I am sure that the relocation of the National Library to the Centre for Culture - "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation will mark the transition to a new era, not only for the National Library but also for all libraries in our country. The self-evident presumption, Minister, which is not always self-evident to everyone, is that libraries are not just a warehouse of knowledge and information. It is a living organisation whose function can make a decisive contribution to education, culture, social and economic development. We realise that the enormous effort to restore chronic distortion in libraries has been launched by the Ministry of Education. The upgrading of the role of the National Library of Greece, its practical support for the development and establishment of the National Library with the relocation to the Centre of Culture – Stavros Niarchos Foundation, the re-establishment of the General Council of Librarys, we look forward to forming a solid basis for the creation of the network of Greek libraries, the promotion of the necessary collaborations and the synergies that will emerge. Despite the economic circumstances, the regional libraries, public and municipal, with their coordinator, the National Library encourage us to move forward. The libraries and their people perform their duties, beyond any difficulty they face. The Ministry of Education expects to continue with the same intensity with the effort to find resources from the regular budget, to continue the funding of the Greek National Library, to complete the staffing, which is a very important issue, Minister, the National Library of Greece, the adequate funding of the rest of the public libraries and the staffing of public libraries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, my colleague. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u65	Member, may I say that apart from public libraries there are municipal libraries, there are academic libraries, which are part of universities, and there are also school libraries. So far these various categories of libraries have been in a complete ataxia. I would remind you that in the late 1990s billions were spent on organizing school libraries, which were sure to fail, because no staff existed, some contracts were concluded for six months but contracts were concluded and teachers had to be seconded to do this. When it was decided that the school would work by noon, it meant that from noon and then these school libraries had to be closed. When were the kids going to the libraries? Would they leave their homework to go? Similar irrationalism - let me the wrong term - existed for municipal libraries and academics. What we want is for a very good network of public libraries to be organised with the National Library. The National Library will not be above the public domain, it will be the axis around which they move. To this end, two major projects have already been advanced - and two major projects are to be included and financed in the next September. One will be in the digital library, that is to say, the texts will be voted on and the other. It will relate to the single catalogue, that is to say someone in the Chios library, for example, can be informed where the book he is looking for is to come from. There will be this whole network, which will work as a huge library, to just say it. If we achieve this, then fatality and academic libraries will also be able to justify their existence, so will the municipalities and so on. I would like to say a few words about what will happen once the National Library leaves the University to go to Kalithea. I have already been in touch with the architect, Mr. Lois Papadopoulos, and he is working on an international tender for the development of the building that exists at the University. Because, as you quite rightly said, the libraries are not just a book warehouse, they are a meeting place. The space, the type, the huge spaces inside the National Library, must be exploited, but it remains a library essentially. So we hope that within the center of Athens there will be an area where it will be accessible to every citizen. Because of the three buildings of the so-called "triology", at the Academy of Athens, the University of Athens and the National Library, the only accessible building is the National Library, and that is what we see really making it an ornament in the center of Athens. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u66	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, before we continue the debate on the next topical and urgent questions, let me tell the House on Monday 18 July 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Chania of the Radical Left Coalition to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity concerning the application of a traceability criterion to the recruitment of staff by the company "FRAPORT S.A.". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question under number 1117/11-7-2016 by MP II, New Democracy, Ekaterini Papakostas - Ironropoulou, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the harmonisation of the procedures for the repayment of third-party loans to private sector third parties with public-sector families. 3. The 1101/7-7-2016 topical question by MP Elias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Health, concerning the treatment of problems at the Hospital of Amaliada. 4. The 1132-12-7-2016 topical question by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity regarding the withdrawal of the decision to reduce vocational schools (EPA) Mytilinis. 5. The 1130-12-2016 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the artistic programme of the Athens Festival 2016 and the reactions to the performance "4" by Rodrigo Garcia. 6. The Question No 1098/6-7-2016 by Congressman Pireos of the Centroon Association Mr.Theodoras Megalonikou to the Minister of Health, on the question of the subscribing and subscribing of the Zakynthos Hospital. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1116/11-7-2016 topical question by MP Pireaus of New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the incident involving refugees on a cruise ship in Mytilini. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Argolidis of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the conversion of the School of Vocational Training (SEK) Epidaurus to the Public Institute of Vocational Training (DIEC) of adults. 3. The 1133/12-2016 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Ministers for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity and Energy concerning the fatal accidents at the quarries of the Regional Unit of Drama. 4. The question by No. 1086/4-7-2016 of the New Democracy MP Florina Mr.Ioannis Antoniadis to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks regarding the construction of the road axis Florina - Ptolemais. 5. The Question No 1072/29-6-2016 by MP Pireos of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of National Defence, on the situation in the Hellenic Defence Systems. 6. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about ensuring the necessary equipment to operate from September, the five ready school units in the Municipality of Rethymno. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question asked by the Member of Parliament by number 1056/28-6-2016 of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Maria Triantafyllou to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism concerning the completion of the work of the Marina Mesology. 8. Under number 1048/27-2016, a timely question by the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the disastrous and unjust demand for payment of a great and unjust fine to undertakings that had been closed during the crisis and are now asking for them to be re-activated. 9. The Question No 1003/14-6-2016 by Congressman Piraios of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Diamantos Manolakos to the Minister of Health on the operational problems of the anti-cancer Hospital of Metaxas. 10. The Question No 899/23-5-2016 by MP Magnesia of New Democracy, Christou Boukorou, to the Minister of Health, concerning the exclusion of Volos Hospital from the ESRB programme. 11. The Question No 708/28-32016 by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy Mr Christos Stakouras to the Minister of Health on the problems of the General Hospital of Lamia. 12. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the abolition of the EKT. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 5920-6-2016 by Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of Parliament I of the New Democracy Mr Nikita Kaklamani to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the committee with special references. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by Mr Gerasios Giakoumatos to the Minister of Health about the problems at the "Madzavinateio" Hospital in Lixouri. 3. The question asked by MP Attica of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulou to the Minister of Health about the problems in the operation of the surgical rooms of the General Hospital of Elefsina "Thrias". Ladies and gentlemen, we continue with two topical questions, which will be answered by the Minister, Evangelos Apostolos. The second question, then, under number 1114/11-7-2016, will be discussed for the first time in the New Democracy Parliamentary Senate, Mr Fotinis Arabatzis, Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the status of using milk powder in the manufacture of Greek yoghurt. My colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is of great concern to the country's livestock world, but also to Greek consumers, that your Ministry's decision, which has already been submitted to the Commission since 18-11-2015, is, for the first time, lifted - for the first time - the compulsory and exclusive use of fresh milk in the manufacture of Greek yoghurt. The possibility of using pasteurised and not fresh - hence fatal Greek milk - will leave, as you can see, an open window for the use of milk proteins in the manufacture of Greek yoghurt - after the amendment of Article 82 of the Food and Drinks Code, in which you slightly went to the heart - and, of course, the ferry to import cheap milk from the North - European countries, which, after the abolition of quotas, can choke the Greek market with their own milk. It is a painful consequence of this, of course, that the already affected productivity of Greek livestock, which has been badly affected by your insurance and tax raids, but also by the loss of the differential advantage of Greek yoghurt. Since April 2016, on a related question, Minister, I have called on you to make a clear statement on a specific decision, which threatens to destroy an excellent Greek product, which has conquered international markets. However, the written answer you gave me at the time, I think it is more than comprehensible to clarify this extremely important issue. You mentioned very clearly a ban on the use of milk powder in the production of Greek yoghurt, at the same time as you mentioned that an addition of milk protein - so dust - will be permitted for technical reasons linked to seasonality and depending on the type of milk. Of course, Minister, by playing with words, we are not reassuring anyone, although that will allow me to say, it is a hobby parade of yours to obscure the truth. Because Article 82(3) and (5) of the new code, which you have brought, is very clear, pasteurised and milk proteins are also entered. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It says in particular that total dehydrated milk or its derivatives, i.e. milk powder, except in case 5, may not be used, where reference is made to these technical reasons. So tell us what these technical reasons are. What do you mean by " seasonality"? By the way, nothing in the draft decision - three! - it's not mentioned. Of course, Minister, in attempting to golden the pill, you are talking about ensuring the market and the consumer, with the labelling of the type of milk and that the consumer can know which yoghurt has raw milk and all that. Minister, I do not know if you are forgetting that Regulation 1169/2011 does not provide for compulsory labelling of milk products and milk, and you are obviously forgetting the harsh reality that at our unguarded borders - and I come from a prefecture - due to incomplete controls, an orgy of smuggling and trade and of course foreign milk Hellenisation is being carried out. So tell us what these technical reasons are, when the milk powder will be used, what seasonality is and how you will also ensure the compulsory labelling of the country of origin. We know that Italy has tabled a draft decision on compulsory labelling of the country of origin. You, as a government, have taken similar action and at what stage are these?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, my colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u69	I would say, Madam President, that we should answer the substance of your questions, because for the rest of the time we have to say a lot. This is a draft joint ministerial decision, which, of course, has not been completed, and relates to obligations - amendments to the Food and Drinks Code based on the OECD toolbox. I'll tell my denture how it came and what impact it has. I would therefore like to make it clear that as regards your first question about what we mean by adding protein, the answer is that the type of milk refers to its animal origin, for example, cow is, is sheep or goat? For seasonality in dairy production, this is related to the variability in the composition of milk, in which apart from environmental factors, for example, climate, diet, milking method, animal welfare also influence physiological factors, e.g. stage of lactic period, age, breast health status, or genetic factors such as race, individuality of the animal. These, as far as you are concerned, your first question to hear and those who are particularly concerned with yogurt. In your second question, I can tell you that it will now be foreseen that in the very same field of vision, the name of the sale, the description of the natural treatment of the basic milk raw material will be given. However, of course, this information has an alternative to include it in the list of ingredients that exist in yoghurt. At the level of the European Commission, what is not permitted is the requirement for compulsory labelling of milk origin, not of milk, but of compulsory labelling of origin. Our country - you know I have told you many times - has insisted for years on compulsory registration, which has so far not been accepted, despite our request, especially for industrialists - if optional registration is allowed - which they should have done to date, but have not done so far. However, things are corrected because the requirement of France, Italy and our own, seems to open the door and the European Union will adopt the compulsory labelling of raw materials. We are already ready for this legislative intervention. Of course, we could not do this because the relevant regulation until yesterday did not allow us to do so. So I have to tell you that we will proceed in that direction too. Now, as regards whether or not it is allowed and what is not allowed on the dust, with concentrated milk, you know that essentially what is going to regulate - and again I repeat is under consultation - they have been the ones that have already been a norm in our country for years simply hid behind the phrase 'persistent yogurt'. For twenty-five years Greek consumers have just taken it behind the phrase 'persistent yogurt'. For the rest, I'll tell you in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Minister. Here, Madam President, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u71	Minister, because the people who listen to us want to understand it simply and practically, and what this will mean in the daily life of the Greek dairy farmer, what we care about, Mr Minister, is to make sure that Greek is the yogurt that has the raw material of Greek milk. And that was our different and unnecessarily advantage, according to the old Code of Food and Drinks, Minister, who said that yoghurt is characterized by the product, which arises after coagulation only of raw milk, that is to say, "fresh milk" is evident to be Greek, because you realize that until it comes from abroad it is excluded as fresh foreign milk. So there, Minister, it's the point. Because when the Greek yoghurt is now being prepared, and with the bogeyman of the law from a foreigner, cheaper milk, you understand what this will mean for the Greek dairy farmers, which you well know is not just afflicted but is persecuted, hence the numbers which are decreasing by Greek livestock farmers over time. It is there, Minister, and I think we are not getting a clear answer. You are also talking about a consultation which is continuing. Let me say - and if I am wrong, correct me - that the consultation has expired since 19 May. You said, Minister - and you left them for your dentistry, where I will not be able to answer - to incorporate the OECD toolbox 1. You told the Committee on Production and Trade in the bill on cooperatives, when I asked you about this matter, that "we are in pain, but we are obliged to implement it". You obviously forget, Minister, and I can read it to you - and I can tell you that the brief explanation of the plan, which you sent out immediately after the Vaterlos of August and the 'OHIM', which has become 'NAH' and all the other things that have been consumed to date, is clear. You say that your version - your decisions - is - of this CSH concerns the implementation of the pending OECD competition toolbox, which has already been incorporated into Law No.4336/2015, the Csipra - Kammenos Memorandum. Obviously, Minister, you want to forget that, although it was in the OECD's first toolbox, you strongly and stubbornly rejected the length of milk life from the five to eleven days and the use of milk powder in yogurt, while you, of course, were still on the eve of milk days and the use of dust allowed, when Mr Tsipras brought Mr Gurias to Greece. The question, Minister, is that all this is happening, when? That, in other words, we are dismantling the brand name of a strong export product that has a market of 6 billion, of which we unfortunately have no responsibility, the so-called grek yogurt, when the Czech Republic - you know well, Minister - has raised an entire fight at European Union level and is asking to produce Greek yogurt with Czech milk. We read in the publications that there are a number of documents that you have presented as a government. I asked you to do so with a request for documents. Bring us to the Greek Parliament what you have submitted to the Commissioner for Health and the Commissioner for Agriculture of the European Commission for the defence of the Greek yoghurt, when for the first time in the European Union the country of the European Union says unregulatedly that 'we will produce Greek yoghurt'. You remember the outcome of the Chobani case that justified the Greek dairy farmers, that Greek yoghurt is the one produced by Greek milk. What are you going to do with this particular burning matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u73	Mr Colleague, before I tell you what we are doing and what we are going to do, we need to clarify a few things. The toolbox, to which we refer, is a toolbox related to the third memorandum. And of course, this toolbox had as its year of implementation in October 2015. You in October 2015 were out of governance of the country, which means that your commitment to the third memorandum came from us and we inherited it through an agreement that we made in the summer. This agreement we made in the summer, came here to the House and was implemented by a specific law. And the law states that there will be compliance based on the toolbox that expired in October 2015, etc. It mentions many details, particularly as regards drinks and food. So what you did not do allowed you time not to do it, but it was your commitment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u74	We resisted, Minister. We didn't adopt it. You adopted it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u75	We are therefore coming, on the basis of the agreement that we adopted together - and we too - and to be honest with the Greek people when we voted on the agreement, we went to the Greek people and asked not just for their approval to be implemented, but for the people themselves to be able to make a deal with as little painful consequences as possible. So that's what we've done and that's what we're talking about right now. It is about consultation on this ministerial decision and about what we are doing about yoghurt. We fight. We are fighting because the reputation of Greek products, especially dairy products, has created an international image. Everyone claims to use the Greek name by misleading consumers. Something like this has recently been attempted by the Czech Republic. He asked the Commissioner for Health that the European Commission should adopt its intention to make Greek or Greek yoghurt. Our reaction was immediate. Not only did we meet with their delegations, not only did we send letters to the Commissioner for Health and, of course, to the Commissioner for Agriculture, but we are already in agreement with other countries for the simple reason that what the Czech Republic is trying to do is to mislead its consumers. We're not talking about how to manufacture. We are talking about a Greek product, with Greek raw material and a Greek technique with which it is made. So that is what we are trying to protect and we want to protect. They themselves attempt the reputation of Greek yoghurt to use it in their commercial practice, which violates regulations. They themselves are attempting to usher a purely Greek product. We're not staying there. We've warned. We'll resort to the courts too. We are in agreement with the Association of Milk Industries. So, in other words, you realise that we are making a very great effort just like we certainly are trying to protect our PDO products, particularly the feta, through the agreements you have initialled, which have put our knife in the neck. But we resist.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u76	The documents to be submitted to us, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u77	Seek documents and we'll give them to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u78	I have asked them to be filed and you haven't given them to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u79	When you asked for them, they didn't exist. The letters have been sent after the relevant debate with the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u80	Since June 1st, I've asked you for them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u81	Haven't they answered? We'll send them to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u82	My colleague, the rest can be done in the Minister's office, and you can come to an agreement. The process here is almost complete. Thank you very much. Subsequent to the first question under number 1127-12-2016, the second question of the Parliamentary Chania of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Evangelias (Valias) Vayonakis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the disasters in the olive cultivation of Crete this spring. My colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u83	Today, of course, it is a difficult day, in the sense of these events that have taken place in France. Our minds are there. But, as my colleague said earlier, it is also the anniversary of two sad events: the invasion of Cyprus and the Julians. Our minds at these moments are on these anniversaries and we want to draw the conclusions and lessons for today. I'm coming to the question. During this spring, the olive groves of Crete suffered serious damage due to extreme weather phenomena, which were long lasting and frequent, especially with high temperatures and south. I mean, we had heaters. The heaters, depending on the evolution stage of the olive flowering or fruiting, caused either blooming or fruiting or schinocarpia. Damages are extensive, of the order of 30% -70%, as estimated by SEDAK, the Association of Olive Municipalities of Crete, and may result in a reduction in the next oil production of 30% -40%. As you can see, this is a very serious blow to agricultural income, especially to areas where olive is a monoculture. For this reason, ELGA is required to immediately start the loss assessment as provided for in Decision 157502/2011 in Article 3(8). We insist on the need to cover damages on the part of ELGA and not from the PESA, as happened in 2013, because the result was that compensation of 65 million were charged to the level of 65 million, they went to 20 million, came down to 6 million and right now, three years later, farmers have not taken a single euro. Furthermore, it should be noted that ELGA does not compensate for the damage caused to blooming, Article 6(4), contrary to the damage caused to fruitfulness. I think, therefore, that, given climate change, it is reasonable to request a change in the ELGA regulation on compensation and blooming due to heat and not just because of ice. So, Minister, we ask you: What do you intend to do, in order to immediately start controls and assessments on the ELGA side, in terms of landfill and what will be done with the payment of compensation from the PES for the year 2013? What do you intend to do to correct the ELGA Regulation in Article 6, in order to cover also damage caused by heaters during blooming, as is the case with the frost? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u85	Mr President, I will make a little mention of the facts. Beyond the support of the French people, I hope that these events will not change the way of life of European citizens. That's the greatest risk. My dear colleague, in fact, the damage from acarpes, which you know and we all know, is not covered by the ELGA. That is what the Rules of Procedure expressly state. However, losses resulting from acarrots, from bad fruiting, can be included in the State aid programme, known as the MAGP. However, in order to include producers there, where there will in fact be a loss of income, a compensation, a certain number of conditions will certainly be needed. The first condition is that there should be a loss which exceeds 30% of the average of the level of regional unit. It is true that this will be calculated on the basis of the average yield for the previous three years. A second condition is to be substantiate scientifically by a committee that this was the result of an unfavourable weather treaty, which the official meteorological elements of the region must also confirm. Above all, this expenditure must also be approved by the European Commission, where it is to be submitted, but, above all, there must also be the State's budgetary capacity to pay this money. ELGA Heraklion's services, which are supervised by the evolution of olive cultivation in Crete, are monitoring and will monitor the region until harvesting, to see what effects acarpia has had on income. Indeed, the heat you mention and solar radiation are part of the insurance risk of the ELGA and, of course, damages from these causes will indeed be compensated. Already the assessors, after the abstention they had - problems solved - began to visit the regions. It will complete the notification of the findings from these estimates and, of course, if the procedure is completed, the corresponding payments will be made. On the issues relating to acarpia and, in particular, the possibilities given to us by an entire debate currently taking place in the European Union, on the effects of climate change on acarpia, we will see them in secondary terms.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u87	I wanted to point out the fact that we are not talking about acarp. We're talking about seeding and schinopamia, which means after the buckling of the fruit. The ELGA regulation at least as I have read it, I think it covers these cases, because in Article 6, as regards the restrictions it puts in paragraph 4 and 5, it says 'the damage caused by the loss covered by the loss-making causes, other than ice-cream, on fruit trees, prior to the fixing of fruits' and then says 'the damage is also excluded, which is caused by ice-cream in fruit trees, before the start of bloom', i.e. when the pedals are opened, blossom. That is what ELGA does not cover is flower damage, and that is why I ask for it to be changed, because of the weather that also covers the period of fruitage. Therefore, the request we put here, Minister, is to cover the damage from the ELGA and not from the PSEA, because I told you what happened in 2013 on schino fruit and fruit. I would also like to point out the fact - I am not specific - that with the data of the CEDEFOP the damage is over 30% for which you are discussing, Minister, and so I think at least you should check on this situation. I know very well that in some cases the damage has reached 100% and I can tell you that I have the same opinion on this issue. Finally, I wanted you to see with great zeal this fact, because this year's performance is below the average. The impact on the incomes of olive producers will therefore be very important. I shall therefore return to two points, namely, firstly, on the subject of our persistence, the compensation to be made by the ELGA, for the reasons why I told you and where the ELGA covers these issues. Secondly, study on the basis of the facts - I mean the weather changes - the change in the Rules of Procedure of the ELGA, because it may seem that there is a discretion over southern Greece by the fact that the blooming is covered in the case of the ice cream, while it is not covered in the case of the burners.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, my colleague. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, fruit damage is damage which is covered either because of heat or because of ice. These are covered by the ELGA through specific procedures. Damages from acarpest, due to bad fruiting, are damages which are proven essentially when harvesting time comes and income loss appears. In these cases, then, we have the PSEAs, where these conditions are needed. Indeed, in 2013, although a expenditure of 65 million was budgeted and the relevant dossier was drawn up, finally because 65 million were for less than 30%, as I said, in the region, this was not accepted and it did not pass. Also, what I want to tell you is that for 2014-2016 we have calculated the amount of EUR 16 million for such cases. But we need to haunt them. From there on, we come to the other part, the great part concerning incarpage, where this process of state aid creates us a problem, because of budgetary implications, and at the same time it has started a debate in the European Commission where it seems that the picture of transferring aid from the European Union to state aid is actually created. This is a very difficult matter. We insist and have set up a committee with universities - acarpia is now a phenomenon that is spreading throughout Greece - to see how we can haunt what is being discussed at this time that climate change is causing damage to agricultural production, which is mainly tree-growing damage. It's not just olives. There are other areas of problems. However, this has not been completed as a process. If it is accepted, then it opens up the block of emergency aid to the area in general, which we will pursue in every way. Nevertheless, we, and here we will prepare the relevant dossiers and document the possibility of State aid if it goes beyond 30%. We are already in a process like this, especially for a region such as Crete, which is known to have a problem with the issue of olive acarp.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the last to be discussed is the timely question. It is the fourth under number 1119/11-7-2016 timely question of the first cycle of the Parliamentary Attica of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the cuts and delays in the award of pensions. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Anastasios Petropoulos. Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u91	Mr President, allow me, too, to express my disgrace and anger, but also the grief of all of us for the terrorist blow in Nice, France. The values of brotherhood, equality, freedom are values on which the European Union has been built. They are values that are badly affected and severely affected. I think we should all get together this new blow. However, the values of Europe are the social model, which has also been affected, Mr President, and Minister, over the last five years by the debt crisis of the States and by austerity policies. That's a truth. However, we are going to see in particular what is happening today, because, as is well known, the law you have brought and voted in the Greek Parliament has had many tough measures, which are, as time goes on, going on for categories of pensioners - already retired - such as the abolition of the CSCE, but also the reduction of supplementary pensions, that is to say, the total of pensions. However, young retired people, the people who have been retired recently or who are now coming out, are facing a difficult reality. This means that there is a long delay in the awarding of pensions, much longer cuts under the law that you have voted on, in relation to the cuts that have been made in the temporary pension, and, of course, an ambiguity about what is going to happen and when they will be retired. They don't have a clear horizon ahead of them. I would like to explain, Mr President, in your tolerance for half a minute. We have right now, Minister, about three hundred thousand pensioners who are waiting to receive their pensions. So, which is a problem of time - and I say it before you say it, and that is why in 2011 the House voted for a law on temporary retirement - I must tell you that it has been intensified lately, because of the three hundred seventy thousand who are waiting to get their pensions, we have a hundred twenty thousand added over the last two years. So, we have a intensity of the phenomenon. That's the first. Secondly, as I told you, on the basis of the law you voted on, the temporary pension, which was introduced in 2011, is no longer 80% of the pension they would receive on the basis of their contributions and earnings, but is even 30% reduced in relation to the calculation that you bring in with the relevant article of the 2016 Act that you voted on. Thirdly, Minister, at the moment when we are talking about it - and you know that - there is only 25% of applications for temporary retirement - because when you make your application, you obviously also want temporary retirement - at least my own data show what I was able to obtain. But I would like you to respond very well to what the situation is on the basis of your official evidence of the Ministry, what is your planning, so that the equivalents, which Mr Katrougalos and Mr. Tsipras have shown, also include the loss of temporary pensions and how.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, anyone expressing in the public step cannot express his grief for the facts, but also for the concern caused by the situation in France, which yesterday, following the touching events in all the countries for the anniversary of the French Revolution, happened this fact, which should be concerned about the prospect we should give to all countries. We must also see these in Europe, of course. With regard to your question, Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have already said that about three hundred and seventy thousand are waiting. So it's been a long wait. I will not agree with you on the statistics you have made, that there is a 30% reduction in temporary pensions. It is not clear from the information and you are reasonably asking what the information is available to the IKA, the Ministry. Let me tell you that, based on the Directorate of Analog Studies and Statistics and according to Law 3996/2011, temporary pensions that are less than EUR 384 amounted to about 7.2%. It is about a thousand four hundred twenty-eight pensions. I'm talking about inside July 2016. From EUR 384 to EUR 768 is 83.6%. Therefore, more than 90% is the rate of temporary pensions that is close to EUR 768, which is the limit set by our law. Therefore, this is not a significant difference, as over 800 euros of temporary pensions were paid to 9.2% of people. I must point out, however, that for a temporary pension to take place up to six months and over six months. So the comparison with the two months our law says is overwhelming. Of course, the process remains to be proved by applying the system software that we are preparing to be quickly given by us and within the limits set by the law. Because these limits were not respected by the previous law either. It was beyond that. Of course, the method of calculating the average income in the last 12 months is too simple to achieve this. We put the amount of EUR 384 as a payment for anyone who has at least 20 years of insurance for temporary retirement and, of course, in his double pension, if that is more than the amount that may result from the average income or salary. That is the criterion we have had and I am sure that we will achieve better yet more time-consuming payments of temporary pensions and much faster of final pensions. Because final pensions, if there was no successive insurance, reached two years and exceeded two years. You say that in your question, 'two years'. I assure you that they were over two years old and if we had been successive, it was not less than four years the time that someone had to wait to receive the final pension. We therefore need to see this all then, when our system applies to its completeness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Minister. My colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, if we compare the laws, we won't compare reality. Because the previous law also said within forty-five days, and your law says within two months. But we know very well that reality is different and much more difficult. I would like to explain, however, that there was indeed a chance that it would be delayed in the past. On average, you wanted to award pensions for eight to ten months. But you are right that many times it went to time, to a year and a half and in certain extreme cases of successive insurance, especially when it is multiple funds - and you know it - we have reached two years. Today we are over three and a half years old. I mean, it's not improving. Not only have we exceeded three and a half years, but we have 2011 pensions. I would also like to say to you, Minister, that - and here, indeed, see it with your services - you may see what you have told me and the statistics you have given me for the 786, which is the ceiling you can give, that is to say, and I do not want to question what you are saying. However, if one compares the method of calculation based on your own rules, which says that the temporary pension is 50% of the average of the monthly earnings of the insured person in the last 12 months from the submission of the pension application, and does not exceed, as you said, 786 in relation to the oldest - I do not care, Mr President, at this time, whether or not I can do so - and I am interested in doing so in practice in these very difficult circumstances - that is, less than the sum. However, I reserve it until you reply or otherwise in writing with the deposit of documents. I would like to return to another question, which I have raised and which I am waiting for your reply: will there be equivalent measures? I say this, Minister, because I told you that while recently 60% of temporary pensions came out almost directly - in one, a month and a half at most, the man was getting his temporary pension at least - now only 25% is coming out. The figures show that until 2014 this figure was 60%. In other words, six out of ten of our fellow citizens were getting temporary pensions relatively quickly, at least. This has been reduced. In the case of the OSCE, Minister, this is not 25%, it is 10%. So there is no average 75% for the insured, who become new pensioners, what we say in due time is the temporary pension. So I say and ask: How will you move, if there are equivalents or if there are no equivalent measures, what is your design? The implementation of the EBRD, the new big fund, may in future - and I am happy, although we have had a different proposal - give such procedures as are too rapid, but until that is done, Minister, there will also be a delay, because the reorganisation will bring its own delays and obstacles. So I want you to tell me if you've planned something about it and what new pensioners can expect.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u97	Mrs Christophilopoulou, when a long road is built, there is the temporary suffering. It may happen, we may have, that is, a management through software system such that, because it has to be prepared, we do not speed up existing rates.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u98	That's what I'm saying. If you have plan B.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u99	I'll tell you. I am talking about the completeness of the pension payment, which I am sure in 2017 we will be able to achieve it and we will have a rapid pension version and I will tell you information and then. But I repeat that over 90% of the temporary pensions paid under the previous provisions, not ours, did not exceed EUR 768. So it does not appear here - and I shall, of course, put it in the Minutes - that it was beyond it, so that you can now say what is equivalent. However, I will also tell you about the equivalents nonetheless. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Anastasios Petropoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Senography and Practices.]] As far as temporary pensions are concerned, so far six months - and the people who are listening - have been passing many times to get them before. After all, you said that since 2011 they have been waiting to retire, many definitive ones. Since 2011. You said it before. It's been until SYRIZA's been a government four years since. So this confirmed delay also existed with the previous provisions. The new provisions of our law on insurance reform objectively lead - everyone can understand it - to a speedy pension version, because a fund now has all the assets of the insured person. It is a fact that there are data fragmented in underground and in difficult areas, so that a difficult process needs to be made. But in our law, because there is a provision for how pensions come out - it is from 2002 onwards - and we have electronic data on most of the institutions - in almost all of them - we are sure to be able to make pensions with a degree of loyalty and ease in the processing of data. And, of course, the question of successive pensions is also over, because one institution now - and not more than one - will be the person responsible for the pension.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u100	This is for the future.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u101	Uh, yeah. Therefore, we will actually have huge speeds in terms of the payment of pensions. And I would like to tell you that in July a thousand five hundred single employees will be granted by the Public Procurement Fund, which had not been allocated since September 2013. Also, about a thousand singles will be provided by TYTEKO, about two hundred fifty singles from the Special Welfare Account IKA - ETAM. And pensions will be granted no later than in October, which will exceed for IKA the sum of EUR 404 million, for the OSH the sum of EUR 122 million and for the EFF the sum of EUR 57 million. Overall, 584m euros will only be allocated for pensions by October. We will therefore have a better financial flow for our insured. This is also due to the speedy calculations of the one-off and pensions, which are already being prepared by the individual funds. We are holding lasting meetings with the managers of the main insurance agencies - because you know that until the end of December they remain autonomous and will work from 1 January - and the subsidiary funds. And we have achieved a rapid development of processes and processes so that we can get this result soon. These are the equivalents you mentioned. Practical results, that's what we're interested in! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the third under number 1122/11-7-2016 top-level question of the First Cycle of the People's League MP - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Cassidyri to the Minister for Home and Administrative Reconstruction, on criminal and terrorist organisations acting undisturbed at the most central point in the capital, will not be discussed due to the unsettled obligations of the Minister responsible, Mr. Nicholas Toska, and will be redefined. Also, the sixth question under number 1120/11-7-2016, first question by MP in Thessaloniki, Mr. Ioannis Saridis, Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the fire protection system of the Sheikh Sou, will not be discussed due to unforeseen commitments, the Minister responsible, Mr. Nicholas Toska, and the discussion will be redefined. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-15-S1-commons.u103	With the consent of this House at 12.12' the sitting for Monday 18 July 2016 at 17.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny, is closed: (a) the topical and urgent debate and (b) the debate on Question No 18/12/24-2-2016.
