ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Structuring the State Budget for the financial year 2017’. We will begin and conclude with the special rapporteurs from the parties, firstly the special rapporteur from Potami, Mr Dannelis. Come on, Mr. Dannelly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are unfortunately still dealing with the debate on the state budget as a typical process of process. It should not be, because the budget is the koruna of the annual parliamentary activity. It is also translated into figures of the policy of a government and the plan for its implementation. We should stop treating him with the dry accounting approach. What is really missing from the country, especially in the last nine years of the recession, is a new visionary way of budgeting. The sterile and static indication of numbers, speculation on revenues and expenses, without assessment and specific targeting, should have been in the past. The state budget should be a field of thorough discussion of substance and not a customary five-day premise of parallel monologues. Should we not, at least in the years of the crisis, be exemplified by the good practices of other countries? For example, in over half of the OECD countries, the average budget year is three to four months. Greece and here it holds the place of the urgo. In the United States, the world's strongest economy, the budget is being discussed for eight months and when I say that they are literally discussing, discussing, intervening in other words on the proposed budget text dynamically and reshaping it. Unlike us, where the legislature simply approves or rejects the budget as a whole, the outsiders are rewrited. What do they gain from all this? Transparency, accuracy, validity. This is an open procedure, which leads to an easy-to-use tool accessible and understandable by the average citizen. That is precisely what it has to do with good democratic governance. In our country, on the contrary, we are essentially considering the allocation of funds, since we never evaluate actions and results. But we no longer have the luxury of directing funds into codes without a clear assessment of them. The evaluation and concrete targeting of any action should have been our absolute priority for some time now, because the resources are totally finite and the needs are growing. We all know that we will probably have voted for a magical picture. Each Minister may be arbitrary by adjusting the codes of his Ministry by acting willingly, i.e. the perfect prevalence of the executive over legislative power. Ladies and gentlemen, we must avoid the collective mistakes of the recent past, because when in 2014 there was a embroidery, the only grim economic reality of the past nine years, we have shot our own legs. The then government, in fear of the upcoming elections whenever they were to take place and after the adverse outcome of the European elections then froze any reforms that were brought to bear at the same time in the body of internal populist pressures. At the same time, the opposition sought electoral lionisms, known time-consuming games, which cost not only the same government as later but mainly the country itself. Today that some indicators of the economy, even unscathed, show that something is finally going to happen, preserve this valuable momentum, ladies and gentlemen of the government, abandoning your doubts. For example, in privatization, last year we were looking forward to privatisation of about EUR 2.5 billion. That is what we had foreseen in the current budget. You've even received half a billion euros. For 2017 we budget for EUR 2.03 billion and the rest from last year. I wish, but with the simple method of three, the numbers probably don't come out. What's the matter? The known pattern. The theatrical work that is set up each time on the basis of a demilitarization, because some are still unconvincing about the importance of entrepreneurship and investment, especially in today's economic process. The case of the DESCRIP, just last week - tail from the first evaluation to the second evaluation, costing, in addition, our excessively fragile credibility - from the 2016 budget is transferred to the 2017 budget. The country is constantly in the role of a retired student. And how would it be different? Mine of EUR 400 million in the funds with still afflicted our minimum credibility, as I said, we are following the suffering of Sisyphos back to something that we thought was already unraveled. The proverbial unreliability strikes again. But obviously we can't go on like this. Nor can we continue by increasing rather than reducing the state waste. It is not possible for the government to continue to enlarge the Council of Ministers by hiring armies of party advisers. It is not possible for the government to discover new patents and to establish new types of secretaries, sectoral, sectoral, administrative, deputy and so on. We've reached the unthinkable number of a hundred and fifty a letter to run the state machine for the ministries. You started in January 2015 with seventy-two, i.e. normal more than double! Not to mention the appointing members of the boards of directors of various organisations, active or inactive. We have come to have public bodies where advisors are more than employees. In other cases of organisations it is not possible, while they have long lost their volumes of work, not to say their subject matter in more general terms, to have new unjustified recruitments. The case of the company "KIRIAN INVESTMENTS S.A." we had the day before yesterday in legislation. It's a company without special work in recent years. In other words, without building hospitals, prisons, schools or other similar state facilities, he continues to hire employees. The current staff of thirty-thirty-three people with a last-minute amendment, as I have said, have still been added two hundred. We cannot continue to spend millions of euros per year on rents for public services, while there are still untapped public buildings. A characteristic case that we are constantly discussing and remembering is the Horn Building, but also elsewhere around the ground. The relocations of services are constantly deferred under the burden of trade pressure, at best, because, in the worst case, they lead the public to pay, as we have seen in a recent investigation, EUR 24 per square metre, a price which, of course, is far from the market. For all the above, the usual excuse is that the previous ones did the same. The party armies of your own posters who break every sense of sovereignty, at this juncture, are nothing but perpetuation in the worst way of bipartisan practices in the past. Let us not be misled by the fact that the general services of the Greek state are close to the Community average because they ensure much lower social benefits for Greeks and Greeks. Otherwise, all this rapid increase in taxes and contributions on your days could be justified if it supported a reverential social state or if citizens enjoyed high quality health benefits, education, culture and infrastructure. Unfortunately - and you know - the social state does not spend days of glory on your days. For example, although we have the highest unemployment rate in Europe, we are nevertheless giving the least to support the unemployed, only 0.7% of GDP, below half the Community average, which is 1.5%. We hear daily stories of shame about hospitals, schools, public services operating in the minimum of the level appropriate to a European state. The Commission's latest catapult report on your reforms and the management of education funds is revealing. Let's say we're happy to see that you're beginning to understand the necessity of the institution of minimum guaranteed income, exactly what the idea of some a year and a half ago called 'the neoliberal charity tool'. But even now that the adoption of the measure is positive, you owe the Greeks an additional EUR 2.5 billion for 2017 just to support unnecessarily waste. Increase of indirect taxes for 2017 by EUR 1.3 billion. What is involved in these 1.3 billion? Where are we going to collect them? Let us see some of the sources: 219 million from the increase in VAT on products and services by Greece, 439 million from excise duty on petrol and oil, 142 million from excise duty on cigarettes and tobacco, 54.2 million from the end of fixed telephony subscribers and 62 million from the tax on coffee. I imagine no one thinks of luxury all the above. And yet you are still being unfairly exaggerated because unfair and socially irreversible is - and you also agree with us - indirect taxation. At the same time, the market is falling apart. The private sector and entrepreneurship in Greece suffer from the increase in the taxation of insurance contributions, but also the consolidation of a negative anti-development psychology based on the permanent negative surprises that will come from the continuous new taxes, new contributions, without anyone having anticipated and planned them. It is no coincidence that we are dealing with an unprecedented historical history of a developed Western economy that is a process of capital evacuation abroad. Greek and Greek holders of doctoral degrees, up to forty years old, in mathematics, in natural sciences, in IT, in applied engineering, in industrial production and construction, i.e. in the most dynamic sectors of the economy, migrate massively. But this valuable human capital could open up the way for a new productive model, if it lived here, without, of course, being devalued by unemployment and low wages, if they were not deviated from the absence of a prospective development plan and a positive account at country level. We are eliminating the resources we have made available as a society and as a economy by giving them to strong countries, countries that exploit a potential, a human capital for which they have certainly not contributed a single euro. We are losing more than EUR 9.1 billion in tax revenue as a country. We are giving up 12.9 billion in the GDP of the relocation countries, such as England or Germany. The biggest problem with our national economy, ladies and gentlemen, is not ensuring the sustainability of the debt. Obviously, it is a necessary treaty for our economy to step on its feet. The most important problem, in our view, is the impairment of the country's productive potential, is deinvestment, is the inability to produce national wealth, which will also ensure the jobs that we so much desire as a society. The obligation to secure a primary surplus from 1918 onwards, for undetermined time, is almost an inappropriate dream. You know, we know, and our partners know, of course. To understand what a primary surplus of 3.5% means, one has to think that Europe's strongest economy, namely the German one, has a primary surplus of 1.8%. And Cyprus, after the suffering of the Memorandum and its wonderful adaptation to the reforms, follows with a primary surplus of only 1.4%. The rest of the countries are lacking and several are deficits. Finally, understand that there is no other solution to the country's problems from the realisation of significant volumes of investments in the shortest period. And that will only happen if they are made friendly in healthy entrepreneurship conditions. Finally, take responsibility and ownership of what you have agreed to today. Put an end to the war of trenches, to the war of your back-runners, who only do are to insist on an outdated, supposedly left-wing, fearlessness to the healthy business and healthy investment. Otherwise, the inclusive growth will remain a wish and the 2.7% growth envisaged will be replaced - go! - from a fourth memorandum, if of course our partners are also in favour of it. Help the Greek economy to change an example, saying goodbye to an outdated paternalistic, isopodist state, which, after all, has been bankrupt. Build confidence relationships, welcome a state that promotes innovation, extroversion, creation, so that we return to normality, but also successfully achieve our exit to the market. It's our only hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u3	We continue with the special rapporteur from the Centroon Union, Mr Katsiantoni. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, everything that is written in the proposed text is predictions - mammoth. In other words, we see in 2017 a primary surplus of 2% of GDP, i.e. 523 million more than the commitment in the Memorandum to a primary surplus of 1.75% of GDP. We see a tax storm for 2017, where indirect taxes are set at EUR 26.4 billion, that is, increased by EUR 1.4 billion compared to this year. For these surpluses you want, we have a cut of EUR 1.5 billion and a further revenue collection of around EUR 2 billion since this year. I mean, we'll have new taxes. The personal income tax you say will reach EUR 9.17 billion, increased by EUR 1,161 billion compared with 2016. The legal income tax will be reduced by EUR 242 million compared with 2016 and will be established at EUR 3,23 billion due to the impact of the increased advance rate for 2016. The property taxes aim to reach EUR 3,13 billion, a reduction of EUR 401 million compared with 2016, due to the differentiation in the collection of ISPA instalments. The VAT revenues target 15,476 billion euros and this increased by 769 million euros compared with 2016. Consumer taxes aim at EUR 9,54 billion, and these also increased by EUR 712 million compared with 2016 due to the new burdens on tobacco products, coffee, subscription fixed telephony and much more. Unfortunately, we do not see any reform of the income tax of natural persons or the modernisation of the tax system. On the other hand, we have a downward cycle of reduced domestic demand, rising unemployment and falling constantly available income. On page 17, in fact, the aim is to increase the collection of taxes and, more generally, their effectiveness. Where did an improved tax-supply collection sound? At the same time, reference is also made to special care for low income households. I am surprised that the domestic banking system will be a long-term instrument for financing growth, as we see on page 18. So, at the moment, the Greek banks are able to finance Greek companies and we do not know that? Even today, the issue of red loans has not been settled. And you are talking about restoring the economy and improving the labour market already this year.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Katsiantoni, I'm sorry. I'm gonna interrupt you for a few seconds. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-three students and students and two educational attendants from the 5th Kamateros Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mr Katsiantoni, you have the floor to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u6	You say on page 20 that you already see an apparent trend towards improvement in the labour market and a prospect of economic stability. The elements of the ERGAN system speak of a record of unemployment throughout the euro area. That's all he says. You say that the road map on the sustainability of public debt was drawn up by the launch of the debate on concrete packages of measures to ensure its non-viable and sustainable service. In fact, you are celebrating the Eurogroup's decision that has been adopting short-term measures to alleviate the Greek debt. I hope you know that, on the one hand, the second evaluation has not been closed and, on the other, we still have no idea about the overall part of the agreement with the European partners since 2018. The solution, which you are pleased to bring as a result, is inadequate and incomplete, since it is still the issue with the disagreement of the International Monetary Fund, which does not accept a primary surplus of 3.5%. It does not accept them for one year, for three, for five or ten. As Mr Dieselbloom said, it was his statement, we still have not decided how many years we mean when we say in the medium term. Others at Eurogroup say for three years, others for five years and others for ten. So the target of 3.5% can stay by 2020, by 2023 or by 2028 in the end. Mr Dieselblum has made it clear that the relief comes as a reward for the closure of the first assessment and is not linked to the delays in the second assessment. In other words, it has still not been set out for the second evaluation, which goes to 2018. We are talking about a huge budget gap, which simply means new measures and deeper recession. Specifically, the International Monetary Fund itself responds that the requirement for primary surpluses of 3.5% and for an unknown period after 2018 is simply forcing the credibility of decisions. It calls on Europeans to identify medium- and long-term debt interventions, but it described short-term measures as inadequate. Eurogroup President says this will be seen in 2018. All these developments are expected to have a significant impact on the 2018 budget and not only. And as we have said, the second assessment is still pending. So you say on pages 27, 28 and 29 that the new support programme of the Greek economy comes along with a gradual relaxation of capital controls and a solution to red loans. And you say that this will restore confidence in the Greek economy. In fact, connect this to the increase in employment and the positive effect of the transfer of the second half of 2016 to 2017. And you say that you are expecting combined to contribute to the relaunching of the Greek economy, allowing the recording of positive growth rates with forecast for 2017 to 2.7%. In fact, you, gentlemen of the government, do you understand growth? You are being prosecuted by the regions of the whole country by Mr Agorastos, the President of the Association of Regions of Greece and the Region of Thessaly, who ask you specific questions, such as: How will growth of 2.7% if the GDP of each region not increase? How will the ambitious and questionable objective of many international government organisations to increase the country's GDP by 2.7% in 2017, if it does not increase the GDP of each region if there is no production in the country? And how will each region increase its GDP without increasing funding in the main development arm, which is regional selfgovernment? How can the government achieve growth with a material budget? I have nothing but to agree on this as a whole. The whole development project is linked to issues, which two years now at the wheel of the country you have not even touched. Development and production of investment activity, red loans, structural reforms to increase economic competitiveness, use of European funds with emphasis on Greece's participation in the investment project for Europe, consolidation, improvement of financial results, in order to avoid the need to activate the cutter, strengthen the social cohesion network, with support for lower income groups with measures of social solidarity. These are macroeconomic and financial risks that could compress downwards the performance of the economy in the second half of 2016 and 2017. Unfortunately, what we see is that there is no consultation between you. But it says one Minister and the other one. And a third party leaves the solutions for issues at the mercy of diplomacy. I am referring to the following: The Minister of Finance, Mr Eukleidis Tsakalotos, says that we are not going well, the figures are not coming out and the failure to complete the second negotiation is likely. He said that at the Congress of the Hellenic American Chamber of Commerce two weeks ago, if I'm not mistaken. But the Deputy Minister of Economy, Mr. Haritsis, said that he considers the government's assessment of 2.7% growth in 2017 to be absolutely realistic. In the finest letters in his interview, he stressed, of course, that this will be in line with the expected political developments, such as the closure of the second assessment, the debt measures and the integration into the quantitative relaxation programme. And the Minister for Labour, because of disagreements recorded at the workplace, stressed that this is why we cannot find solutions at technical level, because this is a deeply political issue. For the target primary surpluses below 3.5% from 2019 onwards, no new one. For this reason, I shall refer to some of the other items in the budget. A burning issue, that of pensions, raises a reasonable question to me as to what is written about the AAGE and its results, and we see this on page 106. Have you included or calculated the results of his recent financial extinction on pension payments in September? I ask, why is the forecast for 2017 negative, i.e. by EUR 53 million reduced its results, compared to 2016. In fact, you point out that for these negative results, in particular, it will be the result of reduced revenues from the solidarity levy for pensioners. Is that all that due to the reduced revenues of the AAA? But the EEA also has a deficit. The rationalization effort is unsuccessful. The prospect of the budget is difficult because the medium-term has not yet been drawn up. So it is not possible to assess the prospect of this budget in the end. These conclusions are drawn in his report by the Parliamentary Budget Office, where on pages 5 and 6 it says that the government's economic objectives are of an obvious material nature, i.e. they are unrealistic. Indeed, it stresses that they are related to a suffocating economic environment, with a weakness of economic and development recovery, so they probably need a continuous review. It also states that the increase in taxes discourages labour and entrepreneurship, i.e. there is no prospect of a recovery from the recession. Now, how, in the context of the countercyclical fiscal policy, Mr. Haritsis's announced 11 investments, namely EUR 1.1 billion, in areas of strategic importance, will be incorporated into the question. In his report, the Budget Office highlights many of the dangers of derailment at any time of the budget forecasts. Because of this, they could be factors such as refugee, insurance, unemployment and over-taxes, which could at any time reduce the prediction of 2.7% in the air. Besides, large banks from the outside and research institutes of the United States stress that it is not possible to develop a country's tax-based development. Excessive taxation has distortive effects that prevent positive growth. This ultimately brings about a reduction in revenue, a difficulty in dealing with tax violations at source, such as tax evasion, the grazing economy and seeing it on pages 10 and 11 of the report. This excludes, in essence, any possible development in the issue of tax redistribution, with the rationalisation of expenditure and taxes. For the time being, the reallocation of expenditure is only temporary. For example, the minimum guaranteed income is only for 2017, and then we will see. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will only need two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u7	One more minute and you'll be closed. The special rapporteurs have 15 minutes. No tolerance beyond minute. Two hundred and six colleagues are waiting. In a minute, get off the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President, for at least one minute. The report by the Budget Office, which is also mentioned in red loans, emphasises that if the issue is not resolved, there will be a chain of consequences, such as the activation of the cut. Of course, I have just read yesterday that it is left by the government - indirectly, with Mr Tzanakopoulos - to agree to a general cutter instead of nominal measures for the period 2019-2020, as he hopes that there will be a debate on the primary surpluses and probably to be reduced. And I will conclude - although I have had enough to say - that I am troubled and sad, not only for the image shown by our country, but also for what I have read, the letter addressed by Mr Mickey Theodorakis to the Prime Minister, which, in respect of the face of this great composer and civilized man, I would not like to analyse publicly. I would just like to keep one point at the end of this, for one more reason than those mentioned by the excellent Mickeys Theodorakis: that the future of our country should not be judged on furstorms, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the conflict, be careful. Cut the bracelets, because the time of the crisis is in front of you and there the axe will be too heavy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u9	Mr Constantine Pavlides, a special rapporteur from SYRIZA, has the floor. The Deputy Minister will then speak for seven minutes and will be followed by Mr Dimas and Mr Papadopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you are accusing us of the fact that at the end of the programme, no matter how positive it is, we will simply return to the economic paradise of 2014. I want to mention some data for 2014: First, the Greek economy did not catch the 2014 objectives. Secondly, huge budgetary and financial gaps were created in 2014. Third, you didn't close the fifth evaluation. In fact, in the second quarter of 2014, the assessment was ‘frozen’. Obviously, you have not taken any substantiated measures, so there has also been this marginal partial rate of development. However, I will give you some information, which I consider to be very important. First, you handed over to the Government in January 2015 an economy with a three-fold central government deficit from the objective you set. The deficit was 5 billion, while the target was only 1.5 billion. The primary surplus of 2014, according to the final figures, was nine times below the target, 0.5 billion instead of a surplus target of 4.5 billion. You lost 5 billion from the NRP of the period. Instead of 24 billion you absorbed 19 billion. You delivered a economy in January 2015 with a GDP in the historically lower size of the five years 2009-2014, just at 177 billion euros. At the same time, you delivered the highest ratio of debt to GDP to 181%. These, in my opinion, are just a few numbers, which I do not think can easily justify the term success story you give in the 2014 season. I'm going to tell you very specific facts. Firstly, in the assessment of the International Monetary Fund report in June 2014 there is a financial gap for 2014 of 2,2 billion. The financial gap for 2014 is 2 billion. The measures in Table 5 of the International Monetary Fund report provided for 2 billion in 2015 and for 2016 of 3,7 billion. At the same time, Table 14 of that report mentions a planned budget gap in 2015 of EUR 12,6 billion. I think that if you sum up all of this, for that period the success story is EUR 10 billion, only at the closure of the fifth evaluation. So, just so you didn't close it and run too fast just quit and drop the towel down. Second, you're talking about the PSI. The PSI others put it up to 120 billion. Mr. Venizelos sometimes goes up to 160 billion. However, I have to tell you two, three numbers around it. First one. In PSI the exhibition - study by the Bank of Greece, the publication "The time of the major crisis. The Bank of Greece 2008-2013 reports for 2014: ‘However, the net benefit from the debt restructuring has been significantly mitigated mainly by reason of the need to recapitalise the Greek banks by issuing a new debt of EUR 41 billion in 2012, secondly by lending in December of the same year 11,3 billion, thirdly, burdens caused by the insurance funds of 16,2 billion’ – the study by the Bank of Greece mentions these - ‘the loan of EUR 4.5 billion for the provision of EFSF bonds to insurance funds, fifthly, the need to borrow 11,9 billion to cover the deficit of the State budget in 2012 and finally, other public liabilities, payments to the ESM and payments of old debts of 1,9 billion. Sum: 86.7 billion in the period of the PSI.’ That was the new budgetary burden. This study concludes by pointing out that ‘the net final result of all the above transactions has led to a reduction in debt in 2012, but much more than its nominal value’. These, to have a little clear picture of what PSI means and what he just left. From there on, we are all in agreement on the substance of the budget, and the report from the Budget Office also agrees that this budget has obviously a short-term real features, given that it has a reduction in expenditure and an increase in tax burdens. At the same time, however, the report points out the fact that there is a possibility of neutralising these short-term substantive measures if there is a change in the economic climate and the closure of the evaluation, which we are now in. But what is the reality of negotiating and closing this story? Firstly, the surpluses agreed by the government for 2017 amount to 1.75%. From the already predicted 4.5% anticipated in the second Memorandum, it is a saving close to 5 billion. In the four-year period, the savings of surpluses are 11%, that is, we are talking about a net budget area of 20 billion capable of being attributed to both the social policy and the development of the country. At the same time, it sets a necessary prerequisite for the budget, the fact that growth rates of GDP growth are needed by 2.7%. It is an optimistic objective, and it is realistic. And it mentions it, in my opinion, by putting three elements back in the House Budget Office into three indicators: Firstly, the predicted increase in private consumption by 1.5%, which clearly states that there are the basis for this assessment. Secondly, in the projected investment growth index of 9.1%, where it considers it possible due to the low GDP base in 2016. And thirdly, in the export sector, which requires an increase of 5.3%. Let me just say to you that the third quarter of 2016 ended with an export index increased by 3.7% without putting oil into it. With oil, the export index increased by 8.9%. There are, therefore, some indicators which clearly show that this objective carries an optimism, but at the same time it also carries a realism in its implementation. So we have clear reasons to be optimistic. For two consecutive quarters, the country's economy has been showing positive growth rates, and this is due to very specific reasons: In time the first assessment has been completed with positive elements, the recognition of non-viable debt, the development of short-, medium- and long-term features of measures and the existence of the quota in the country's credit obligations, the fact that there has been a ceiling of 15% of GDP in relation to the impairment obligations of our debt obligations at a time when in previous years these credit obligations absorbed 30% of the country's GDP. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, results in a gradual restoration of credibility and confidence in the Greek economy, which is a key factor in attracting investment. This can also be easily seen in the fact that there is a steady reduction in interest rates in Greek bonds, at a time when this is not the case in the rest of Europe. When, in my opinion, there is a steady downward trend in interest rates in the country at the same time, there is a upward trend in interest rates in Europe, and for that reason, in my opinion, the short-term measures had seriously anticipated that variable interest rates had to be converted into a constant level of 1.5%. At the same time in the revenue side, the country has achieved a very significant over-implementation, because the main problem is the need for liquidity in the years to come. In addition to the extraordinary revenues, such as the dividend of 300 to 400 million from the Bank of Greece, more than one billion comes from the normal tax revenues. In particular, I should like to mention three indicators: The receipts from the collections of due debts in 2016 amounted to 4 billion, increased by 1.1 billion, i.e. an increase of 37.6% compared to the previous year. Revenue from VAT amounted to 12.5 billion, increased by 1.3 billion, i.e. an increase of 19% over last year. And at the same time, the total net revenue of the budget in 2016, and after tax returns, amounted to 40 billion against a target of 37.5 billion, an increase of 6.3% and nominal terms of 2.5 billion. These are in relation to the collection and need of liquidity in the country. At the same time, at the level of social justice, we must clarify something which either consciously sounds twisted either to create impressions or to make atmospheres, that is to say, the fact that this budget does not include new measures. The measures expressed in 2016 and gave an economic effect on a six-monthly basis in 2017 and 2018 are parametered and appear in the 2017 budget as revenues from taxation on a 12-month basis and an extension of three years. Others started in May 2016, others will start in Genaris, from 1-1-2017 and more from 1-1-2018. At the same time, the expression of their half-yearly economic performance in 2016 is expressed on a 12-month basis in the following two years, 2017 and 2018. Therefore, the picture of increasing taxation as the application of new measures, outside the first assessment and the implementation of the May 2015 adopted measures, is simply a communication fraud. But we are clear about the fact that in this tax reform of April 2016, there is indeed a great impact, the consistent taxpayers burdening excessively. We know this, and particularly about the middle class, where an important part of the professions has lifted a great deal of this financial adjustment, and we should see how these tax rates, based on the country's development clause, can be reduced. At the same time, however, I would also like to give you two elements, so that we also have a picture of what progressive and redistributive tax policy means. Retired and retired from EUR 27,000 to EUR 43,000 income and from EUR 50,000 to EUR 55,000 income will be less than EUR 400 per year. The incomes of under 27 000 in these categories of citizens, employees and pensioners will have a small annual cost of EUR 80. In addition, free professionals up to EUR 32,700 will have a medium-term relief of EUR 500. This is the result of the escalation of tax rates and income tax and the contribution of solidarity. And these are not elements of the Ministry, they are also elements coming out of various economic sites, from "Taxheaven" and from a thousand two others. At the same time, the linking of contributions to the level of income rather than to the years of service in micro-enterprises and small shops which are the majority, the heart of the free professionals, will bring a significant reduction in insurance contributions up to the income of EUR 22 000. As far as the rural area is concerned, let us be clear about what we say outside. Firstly, we voted in the tax bill for duty-free from EUR 8,500 to EUR 9,500 depending on protected children. This automatically means that it zeros the 84% of farmers' tax obligation. 84% of farmers indicate incomes of up to 5,000 euros. Those who are under EUR 8 500 and EUR 9 500 - and this is more than 84%, because 84% states up to EUR 5 000 - that is, the vast majority of farmers, a close to 90% percentage, are completely excluded from the tax obligation. They have no tax burden. This is a tax-free that you abolished in 2012. At the same time, 98% of farmers, i.e. five hundred and twenty thousand farmers, will have a zero or reduced tax burden in relation to the past up to a very low tax burden. There will really be a burden on farmers of eleven thousand farmers in a total of five hundred thirty thousand farmers - to know exactly what we say - at the same time the insurance cost of this story. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to mention one thing, so that I do not take any more time. The New Democracy is aware of the fact that the figures obviously change for the better. He knows very well that if everything goes well on the basis of planning, and the second assessment will soon be closed, then the country will recover, which he probably does not want. That is why the plan is as follows: we are investing at all costs in a short-term plan based on the immediate failure of the Greek Government - there comes the obsessive 'elections now', which is now, rather lately, not much - and at the same time contribute to the fall of the government, using either the BSE proposals on a thousand other issues or the obsessive demands of the International Monetary Fund. But we want to tell you two things. You are blaming us that this budget is over-taxing and is not of a development nature. Let's see what the President of the New Democracy has said. Through his statements in Thessaloniki, the PTH, we conclude that the policy he announces is false and at the same time destructive. It is like that party that said 'I give plots, I give debts' to this particular populism. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. Mr. Mitsotakis announced a horizontal reduction of 30%. VAT is reduced, and high and low by two points, and at the same time tax rates are lower. The budgetary gap that will arise is of the order of 4.2 billion. Secondary expenditure is close to 6 billion. The highest percentage of these is inelastic. 80% is insurmountable. We're only talking about 20% of elastic secondary expenditures. This EUR 4.2 billion strip, therefore, outside the real need to reduce these elastic costs of the state, concerns EUR 3 billion, which Mr Aeggeakis said very well in his speech at Anogias - concern redundancies of civil servants and a reduction in the government's social policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u11	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u12	With this in mind, therefore, I think your future government will reach a dead end, and the deadlock is very specific. Whether it will be forced into an extra wage and pension haircut, as it has a political allergy to the progressiveity of the measures, or it will be forced to take new measures, a fourth memorandum of 3 billion. This is what we fear will be the second success story in the New Democracy and the first one in the Presidency of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u13	Although I had announced to the Secretary of State, Mr. Liako, that there would be a rotation, that Mr. Dimas would come and then the State Secretary will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u14	Mr. President, may I take Mr. Dimas' place?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u15	Not now, Mr. Brutsi. Wait. I had him announced three times. After Mr Papadopoulos, I would be happy to give the floor. Here, Mr Dimas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget that the government has submitted to the House is unrealistic, because it is based on unrealistic assumptions. To be more specific, though. It claims that in 2017 we will have 2.7% growth, mainly because private consumption will increase by 1.8%, investment will increase by 9.1% and exports will increase by 5.3%. We all hope that the Greek Government will achieve the objectives it has set in the budget. That, although it should normally have been self-evident, unfortunately because of extensive polarization in political life in recent years alone is not self-evident. The real question, however, is whether the objectives set by the government in relation to its policy are realistic. So the main case is that since the recession of minus 0.3% in 2016, the Greek economy will have a positive rate of economic growth of 2.7%. So an important growth leap. But to go to the deepest analysis. I, as I said, will focus on three points: private consumption, investment and exports. First, private consumption. The government says that private consumption will increase in 2017 by 1.8%, while in 2016 it decreased by 0.6%. I consider the objective unrealistic, because the Greeks' available income in 2017 will be reduced, which means that private consumption will reasonably be reduced. More specifically, from 1-1-2017, the government has calculated an additional tax of EUR 2,6 billion for citizens and businesses. We in the New Democracy believe that the portability of Greek citizens has long been exhausted. At SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, however, you seem to believe that Greek citizens and businesses have the opportunity to pay even more in 2017 than they paid in 2016. Otherwise, the additional tax by 2,6 billion from 1-1-2017 is not explained. You have also already voted for additional pension reductions, almost EUR 1 billion, and increases in insurance contributions of about 1.4 billion, which will start to apply from 1-1-2017. It is therefore clear that in 2017 the available income of Greek citizens will be reduced and even considerably reduced. Whoever's running a little bit on the market seems to understand it. The purchasing power of the Greeks has fallen. According to recent data from the Bank of Greece in 2015, i.e. the first year of governance SYRIZA - Independent Greeks, the year of supposed hard and proud negotiation, the relative poverty increased by 8.1%, while in 2014, last year of the Samara government, poverty decreased by 7.1%. I also give you the table for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Dimas, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Therefore, while the available income increased in 2014, since 2015 it has decreased significantly. And the worst part is that, unfortunately, poverty has increased in citizens and households. The result is not only that the citizens have greatly reduced their costs and therefore private consumption, but now it is limited to what is strictly necessary. Citizens consume significantly less and reduce their costs, and I really cannot understand where the Ministry of Finance's forecast for increasing private consumption is based. I'd like an answer from the State Secretary. Already, the Parliament's Budget Office has warned that any increase in taxes will result in every household falling from its basic needs in order to cope with it. The evidence confirms the dramatic situation in which the majority of households have arrived. In particular, one in two Greek taxpayers owes money to the Greek State. In fact, almost half of GDP is due. People, who have always been householders, workers and caregivers, do not today have the opportunity to respond to what the state wants. See the table with the overdue debts of individuals to the public. To the governments of SYRIZA - Independent Greeks every month, a billion euro is added to the debts of private individuals to the public. We have now exceeded EUR 91.5 billion. And what is the solution proposed by the government? But the extra tax. It does not have to be an economist to understand that this is absurd. Simple logic is required. The rule and logic say that the further shrinking of income and purchasing power and therefore the reduction in available income lead not to an increase in private consumption, but obviously to a reduction. So how you say that private consumption will increase by 1.8%, that is, the citizens will spend more money next year, it is really worth wondering. Of course, both the Minister of Finance and the Deputy Minister of Finance are missing. They're economics professors at the university, and I wonder if they think the analysis they've done is rational. I really want a reply from the Ministry of Finance on where the case is based on increasing private consumption. Secondly, investment. The government claims that the Gross Fixed Capital Formation, in other words investments, will increase by 9.1% in 2017. We all wish that. But really, how are we gonna do this? Will candidate investors see how you dealt with 'COSCO' for the port of Piraeus, where else you agreed with Chinese investors and other brought here to the House, to the contract? Will the potential investors see how you faced the investment in Skouria, with the spectacular forwards of your government, which were said by one Minister and others, by blowing down the investment in the air? Will the potential investors see the example of DESCRIPTION and how did the Greek Government treat the Azeri investors, forcing them to withdraw? Will candidate investors see how you faced the investment in Afantou, Rhodes, where the site was suddenly declared archaeological with unsuccessful tricks? Will candidate investors see how you faced the investment in Greek, where you converted the most important real estate project into an informal hot spot in Europe? Will candidate investors see how you dealt with the privatisations, where your ministers sign them tears? You know, attracting investments don't have any anachronistic ideas. Explain to thousands of unemployed all over Greece why these investments did not go ahead, thus losing hundreds of thousands of jobs and drowning in the recession, taxes and pension reductions. How will you convince investors to come to Greece? Will they see the Greek Prime Minister talking like this again at the Clinton Foundation or welcome President Obama and will they be persuaded or inspired by the speech at the funeral of the former Cuban dictator? And, of course, how will they invest in a country that still has the limitation on capital movements and a government that is beyond unreliable? But it's hard for me to do it with you. I wish you could make it and attract even more investment. Sadly, however, reality is relentless. 2016 is the first year in which more businesses close from those opening. According to the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce of Commerce, two thousand Greek companies went to Bulgaria from June 2015 to June 2016, according to data from the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce. Let me tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that on a recent trip abroad, a Bulgarian colleague told me: "I wish Mr Tsipras Tsipras had lived in Greece for many years because he has brought growth to Bulgaria". At the same time, according to GATT data for small and medium-sized enterprises, over five hundred thousand free traders and businesses of all sectors - scientists, craft traders, traders - have debts to electricity companies, one in three companies owes banks loans, and four out of ten companies say they are facing early payroll problems. 28% of enterprises said they have already reduced the remuneration of employees in the previous six months. In addition, 28.1% of enterprises are likely to reduce wages or working hours in the next semester. The conclusions of yours. I'm tabling the minutes of the GCC investigation. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Dimas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] After all, we need to restore liquidity to the market. The questions are two: When will the issue of red loans be solved, which employs a very large part of society? You probably don't seem to be concerned about it yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u17	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Colleague, I understand that you are disturbed by SYRIZA's policy. It's all annoying. You're right to complain.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u19	Pay your own red loans.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u20	Secondly, when will the government repay the government’s dues? Because both the Minister, but in particular the Deputy Minister, in the committee, have committed himself, that all dues will be repaid in 2016. Of course, this goal was quickly abandoned by the government when it realized that it is unrealistic. In programming though, you definitely stay re-tested. As for the credibility of your people, I don't talk about it, the whole planet has seen your pirates. So you have increased the government's dues to private individuals and businesses by 63% since you took over the country's governance, making the state the worst bad payer. So the second objective you have set, the increase in investment by 9.1% in 2017, your forecasts are, at best, over-optimistic. I would therefore like to ask the government if the information is true that six months after the adoption of the development law and two months after its formal entry into force, a market close to liquidity, and until last Friday, only ninety-eight investment projects had been submitted for accession, 14% of which concerned tourism investment. Does this prove and your failure to attract investment? I would like to ask you, Minister, to tell us in name a few large investments which will help achieve the investment target by 9.1%. Thirdly, the government claims that exports of goods and services from 0.8% in 2016 will reach 5.3% in 2017. If you ask farmers, producers, free traders, micro-enterprises, self-employed people, craftsmen will tell you that unfortunately, the state puts them innumerable obstacles and actually leads them to mathematically infringing or reducing production even in closure. A characteristic example is that you are asking free professionals, farmers and businesses to pay all the tax in the state. Your policy is characterised by the following three aspects: taxes, taxes and new taxes. Minister, while taxation is increasing, entrepreneurship is being discouraged and new jobs are being restricted, while excessive tax evasion is being strengthened. I'm not saying this, it's the OECD saying it. I am presenting the OECD's research report for the minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Dimas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned survey, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Unfortunately, however, along with excessive taxation, you are dismantling the whole productive fabric of the country. Anyone who tries to produce in this country is your proven enemy. In the third memorandum the proportion of taxes and reductions in government expenditure is around 93% of taxes and only 7% of government expenditure. Let me remind you that the New Democracy Government had reduced taxes: 30% in the exceptional solidarity levy, 10% in the VAT on the focus, 30% in the Special Consumption Tax on heating oil. Even EVIA was 30% down, compared to the raisin. Please deny me if I'm wrong. I do not, however, start talking about coffee, cigarettes, tobacco, fuel, insurance, pay-TV, fixed telephony, beer, hotels, the islands and income tax, the solidarity levy, the traffic charges. The list is inexhaustible, and the worst is that your citizens have voted for you because you are supposed to have abolished taxes such as HICPIA and reinstated wages and pensions. You're supposed to be cutting yourself off for the interests of the weaker classes. But this is the greatest hypocrisy. Instead, with your policy, increasing indirect taxes, the most affected are our poorest fellow citizens. The same is true of the increase in insurance contributions. Do you know how much uninsured workers have grown since you increased insurance contributions? Let me remind you that the Government of New Democracy reduced insurance contributions in 2014 by 5%. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, and I'll be done. In conclusion, I would just like to say that you have proved that you have neither a plan nor a capacity to manage the situation. The citizens are now aware of that. You can't fool anyone again. The reality is that you are nationally harmful and the sooner you leave, the better for the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme of the "Workery of Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-five students and students and two educational escorts from the Municipal School of Moraitis. Welcome to the House. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] As I said, the reason for seven minutes will now be followed by the Deputy Minister of State, Mr. Liakos, Mr. Papadopoulos, Mr. Brutsis and Mr. Nikolopoulos, and we are closing down with the general and special rapporteurs, so that we can finally enter the list of colleagues. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my first presence before this House coincides with the top parliamentary process of ratifying the annual state budget. The second budget of the SYRIZA - ANEL government contains qualitative and quantitative elements, reflecting the dual effort on the recovery of the economy and correcting the social consequences of the long-term recession. This effort forms part of a political planning that goes beyond the horizon of the current programme, on the basis of a new collective concept for our society, as well as the need to move to a new production model, a model that highlights extroversion, innovation and human potential. The debate on the budget gives an opportunity to present the planning for next year, catching the thread from our events. In 2016, the Greek economy stabilised, the third quarter of the year recorded a growth of 1.8% compared to the corresponding quarter of last year, while growth rates of 2.7% and 3.1% for 2018 are forecast. This dynamical also reflects the economic climate indicators and the declining of the epic performances of Greek bonds. We are stepping up the effort to attract and strengthen investment. We have relaunched important infrastructure projects - approved through the Juncker programme - which marked investments of EUR 2 billion. We are exploiting our geopolitical position and developing into an energy and transit centre for the wider region. At the same time, we have brought together all the financial instruments available in specific development objectives. In this direction, within December, the financing agreement with the European Investment Fund for the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises is signed, while two new instruments are being activated by the end of the year: Entrepreneurship II, through the EIF, and the EIF. We have voted for a pro-investing development law, which for the first time links incentives to grants and tax exemptions, focusing on extroverted and innovative investments. Social enterprises are involved for the first time in the ESDP programmes and in development law. We are drawing forward and speeding up the absorption of European funds so that, together with the payment of outstanding debts, more than EUR 10 billion in the course of the year can be channelled to the real economy. Above all, however, we are laying the foundations for a radical shift in the country's economic orientation from a state-owned model to areas of low added value, to a modern, extroverted, productive model that focuses on human capital and innovation. Our aim is for growth to be translated into jobs and prosperity to be for all Greek citizens. Human capital is our most important development advantage. With our educated and skilled human resources we must compete in the new knowledge economy, not outdated productive relations, based on competitive devaluation. With a project of social justice and fair growth, we are shaping the dynamic social consensus that makes up healthy productive forces, which together with young people are taking on the country's productive reconstruction. This is our plan and vision for the next day. As far as budgetary matters are concerned, for the second consecutive year we are overcoming the objectives of the primary surplus. This allows us to allocate additional 300 million to support health and education, 760 million to implement social solidarity income, 100 million to serve housing debtors with low incomes. We are now going to the area of reforms, where we have actually implemented a broad grid of complementary reforms that the Greek economy has and needed. Let me give some examples of the effort made and done: We reformed the tax system and strengthened tax collection. We are promoting the introduction of the system of electronic transactions. We have improved the criminal framework for tax evasion and money laundering. The Independent Public Revenue Authority and three additional units were set up to identify and dismantle the smuggling. We have introduced reforms that enhance transparency and the financial effectiveness of public sector expenditure, while the new public administration system guarantees transparency, dignity and continuous upgrading of the quality characteristics of the public sector. Insurance reform has ensured the long-term viability of the system and streamlined the system in terms of redistributive justice and the speed of awarding pensions. The minimum guaranteed income extends to all municipalities in the country and strengthens the social protection net. At the same time, we are forming the framework of the extrajudicial compromise, thereby giving a second chance to viable companies with overcompensation problems. In cooperation with the OECD we are improving the operating framework of product and service markets. We are also adopting a full strategic plan for the quicker administration of justice. The list of reforms is long, it is long. I have referred to some to illustrate the size of the effort that has been made over the last year. Our partners recognised this through their recent statements. The agreement we have signed, it has an expiry date and we want it to be final. We are moving decisively to complete the second evaluation within the timetables. The Eurogroup's decision of Monday to implement short-term debt regulation measures comes as a follow-up to the commitment of the Eurogroup of 25 May to ensure the sustainability of public debt. The first act has been accomplished. However, other steps also need to be taken to enable the European Central Bank to integrate Greek bonds into the quantitative relaxation programme. This move, combined with the strong fundamentals of the economy, as reflected, opens the way for the gradual exit to markets in 2017. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Secretary-General hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I would like one more minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u23	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u24	Thank you. Everyone accepts the excess that has been done from our side. It is clear that Greece cannot accept additional financial measures, in addition to the agreed ones, nor should it be under pressure to close the rating on maximalist demands, as is the case with the issue of labour. The agreement explicitly provides for the implementation of best practices on the basis of the European acquis. In a country with 23% unemployment and 50% unemployment in young people, further deregulation of labour relations cannot be discussed. On this point, we believe that we need to overcome, on the part of our partners, in the form of practical support, a leap of confidence in the country, which will act as a necessary advance in getting out of the crisis and thus returning to normality. Any decision to remove uncertainty makes this roadmap clearer and is legitimate. Conditions have matured and no one is interested in perpetuating the Greek issue, especially when there are unstable destabilisation factors and cases of uncertainty. The imposition of austerity in Greece and internationally exacerbated social contradictions, and today it is threatening more and more countries with an internal crisis of democratic legitimacy. Reform is a necessary and necessary prerequisite for development, but it is not the only one and it is not the only one capable. They succeed when expressed as a single collective project and not when imposed from above and as external coercion. Otherwise, society is creating a diffuse sense of marginalization and deprivation that fuels isolation and xenophobia.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u25	You must finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u26	I'm done. We've been through all this in good time. The warnings at first sounded like whispers. Everyone now coordinates in this direction. The country is gradually rediscovering its pace. We are in the middle of an effort and other steps are needed. But the results so far give us encouragement to continue. The situation is objectively difficult, but the social contract we have signed with the Greek people on the basis of fair growth will honor and overcome the obstacles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u27	Tolerance on Mr Liako is due to the fact that he was his maiden speech and opened up the cycle of the government by speakers. But I will not continue with the rest of the ministers. I'll make it clear. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-four students and students and two educational attendants from the 3rd Tochiceio Municipal School of Eklis. When there were big benefactors, they don't exist anymore! Welcome to the House. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Papadopoulos is next. Come on, Mr. Comrade, in Step. It follows Mr Brutsis and the circle is closed, as I said, by the general and special rapporteurs. Then there will be Mr. Muzalas, Mr. Balauras, and then Mrs. Kerameo. Mr. Papadopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u28	As you know, the debate on the state budget of 2017 is taking place, ladies and gentlemen, on new data for Greece, for Europe, perhaps for the world after the election of a Trump in the United States. Obviously the outcome of the recent Eurogroup meeting, the outcome of the referendum in Italy, the presidential elections in Austria and the political developments that will follow them all, will significantly affect both the conclusion of the ongoing negotiations, as well as important aspects relating to the implementation of the budget, the course of the Greek economy, the cohesion of the United Europe, which is at the crossroads of critical choices for its future, questioning its consistency, with strong separatist, destabilising trends. It should be said that according to all the reports on the data of the Greek economy, Greece, under conditions, can really change a page in 2017 as, as the Bloomberg agency yesterday noted, “Greece no longer looks like a failed state”. It can have the definitive exit from the destructive recession of its economy and upward growth rates that can be reached and 2.7%, meet the objective of a primary surplus of 1.75%, join the ECB's Quantitative Relaxation (QE) programme, declining Greek bonds, liquidity, market access. We all realise that these conditions are about dealing with chronic distortions in the structure of the Greek economy, in the state, in the public administration, in strengthening the competitiveness of our economy, in particular in the sectors that we have comparative advantages, in the realisation of necessary changes and prerequisites set by the third convention, in the maintenance of budgetary equilibrium and in the recovery of general credibility. At the same time, Greece can take advantage of the positive course of implementation of the 2016 budget, the positive balance sheet of revenues exceeding 1.572 billion in the first quarter of 2016 and expenditure with a reduction of 3.2 billion, the increase of the primary surplus set as a target for 2016, the repayment of 3.5 billion outstanding debts, the recovery of domestic demand and investments. The increase in private consumption - of course our ministers will also answer - is due to the fact that the new equilibrium situation there is too many of those that exist as reserve deposits from the Bank of Greece has estimated that there are still 20 billion people on the surface and there is still the possibility of increasing consumption. Moreover, the fact that investment is increasing is seen by many facts. Some time ago the Central Association of Chambers of Chambers of Greece honoured a large enterprise in Trikala - it started as a family - with a huge volume in its export orientation. He was honored for his successes in difficult real circumstances. There's all these data. There are upward growth rates in the last half of 2016: 1.8% in the third quarter. They are overall evidence - because events are stubborn, as you said - the stabilisation, resetting and the prospects for recovery of the Greek economy. It is clear that the conditions concern, in particular, a positive second assessment of the implementation of the third Convention without new, absurd, undermining, requirements of creditors' representatives in the ongoing negotiation and the sustainability of the country's collective debt service in order to have the stable and clear economic landscape that I think we all want. It is positive, objectively, that Eurogroup's decision to adopt the proposal of the European Stability Mechanism for Greece's short-term debt relief measures. However, we must also note with concern the IMF's requirements for essential 'preventive' financial measures of EUR 4.2 billion and the European nomenclau, the Jerome, for decades of primary surpluses of 3.5% in an economy which suffered huge bleeding, internal devaluation, the closure of thousands of businesses, the reduction of unemployment, a catastrophic reduction of GDP by 25%, while we listened with satisfaction to the speeches in Athens of the leaders of the South and the Obama speech, the regulation of Greek debt and the rejection of austerity, social prosperity, for Greek culture and democracy, the offer and sacrifices of the Greek people and even the encouraging statements by Commissioner Pierre Moscovici, Beno Kere, Gabriel, Martin Schultz, Gualtière and others. However, the decisions taken by Eurogroup to alleviate Greece's debt by 21.8%, about 45 billion, and by the time the loans granted by the EFSM were extended - an extension of repayment, lower interest rates, a lockdown of 1.5%, are directly applicable and help to stabilise and recover the Greek economy. It is realistic, therefore, that the country should be released definitively from economic surveillance, the hard budgetary adjustment, the shortening of overcompensation and the Memorandum commitments after 2018 and the transition to the new historic phase of totalitarian reconstruction, the regeneration of Greece, if they stop - and we note this condition - the disastrous timeless intervention by creditors for Greece's obligations. And they were during the Papandreou government, as well as Papademos and Samaras. We take note of this. Because it is true that the wrong multipliers and wrong recipes and all that have led to further measures of bankruptcy in Greece, internal devaluation, impoverishment of people's lives, are making the country very difficult. In the area of health, we want with the contribution of the 2017 state budget to carry out the radical shift of public health services towards their central tasks, holistic health care as complete physical, mental, social well-being. We promote a comprehensive reform of the primary health system with about two hundred and sixty local health units in urban centres, with family doctors, interdisciplinary health teams, with sixteen-hour on-call programs for non-life-threatening emergencies, with an upgrade of the functions of the units of the PENH, health centers, regional medical centres, especially in the difficult areas, the islands, which also accept large refugee flows and a large number of visitors. Funding makes use of ESF resources. Secondly, we are seeking effective support for hospitals, their subordinated sections and units, so that there are no images of disgrace, such as those you have noted, Mr Dannelly, and that, at the same time, there are heroic efforts by health officials and terrible achievements, which show the capacity of the National Health System, can overcome all the obstacles that we have and can reach as much as we want, its overall reconstruction and regeneration. I would like to note that at the time we see these shame images at Trikala Hospital, for example, over a thousand four hundred coronaries, over four hundred fifty pottery, works bronchoplasty, created a pulmonary clinic, starts operating the magnetic tomography department, has been asked to become a pacemaker. There is a great deal to be noted, as there is the possibility that the National Health System will actually be upgraded in the next period, as it was in a collapse picture after six years of dramatic cuts in its operational needs and substantial zeroing of recruitments. We want the EUR 300 million budget allocation, which will increase the social costs of the social budget in the health, education and welfare sectors and the increase in the EEA budget, which has been agreed with creditors, to finance the documented operational expenditure on medicines and health material in hospitals. The 2016 budget has already increased by EUR 40 million. We want to continue spectacularly the pace of recruitments that have taken place, those who are awaiting FEK, the 2017 recruitments to the ESS, with a great deal of speed in the crisis procedures of the two thousand new doctors of the ESS and their appointment, so that together with the four thousand recruits of 12 months' work, which are already going through the publication of the relevant FEK, we can fill important gaps in the ESS, EKAB, the National Health Center, the CITES, the OkANA, the ERCY. We also want to implement psychiatric reform in the management of mental health services, the setting-up of sectoral committees and twelve regional administrations in the areas of mental health. We also want to implement the integrated information systems, e-government in health, health atlanta, electronic registers of patients and diseases, occupational and health professionals, citizens' health card, individual electronic file, telemedicine services, e-government of PEDs that have already begun, the electronic testing of laboratory tests on the basis of diagnostic and therapeutic protocols, the implementation of programmes to strengthen medical tourism in Greece, the organisation of autonomous departments of emergency cases in regional and prefecture hospitals, the organisation of central laboratories in each health region, the organisation of time centres for suffering from diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, chronic obstructive pneumonia, the reduction of the burden of patients for laboratory testing and much more. In fact, we want in 2017 to regain citizens' confidence in the public health system with bold reforms. You said, Mr. Hatzidakis, we have allergy to reforms. We are proposing reforms. We are implementing reforms that have a sense of rationality, which neoliberalism cannot understand, because our own reforms are the ones that we want to do in the system of administration of health regions, hospitals and many others, they are not chords for us as Mr Amyras said, and they are a project of the parallel programme, with which we want to reconstruct the country. At the same time, the government's social intervention also takes place with the zero participation of beneficiaries of uninsured and beneficiaries of the ESDP with a disability rate of 80% in the cost of their medication, the extension of social solidarity income of EUR 760.000, involving more than 250,000 households, the two-five community centres, thirteen regional observers, the school meals, the SME movement card and luxury, the roofs of supported living, the abolition of the paradox in the CEPD for the most deprived, the structures of uninsured minors, the policies for the child, vulnerable groups, the use of the TSE, the poverty monitoring mechanism for social cohesion policies, the funding of EUR 100,000 000 000 euros from the new NDP, and a thousand unaccompanied jobs from seven hundred that were, the establishment of a national coordination mechanism for the monitoring of social inclusion policies, the development of a national housing register of many citizens, the creation of a single currency, the creation of a single currency-s-s-stour-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s We want, finally, to do what BSE finds with anger, the greatest redistribution of wealth that can be done in adverse conditions. I will conclude, Mr President, by saying that the most important conditions for Greece to pass through the catastrophic recession in a stable macroeconomic environment, the recovery of the national economy, sustainable rapid growth and growth by 2.7% in 2017, we are able to have an enlarged political claim that we are proposing in Parliament. Firstly, a reduction in the primary surpluses well below 3.5% for the years 2018 and then, which everyone finds that the Greek economy cannot withstand, but continue to press. Secondly, the long-term viability of debt repayment. Thirdly, the rejection of the irrational requirements for new unreasonable 'preventive' financial measures, to reduce the duty-free threshold, to abolish the personal differences in pensions, to double the limit of collective redundancies and, lastly, to demand freedom of collective bargaining, to establish the expansion of sectoral agreements. Finally, the possibility of signing a fourth Memorandum of Preventive Financial Measures by our government does not exist. Potential social dividend from exceeding the target of a primary surplus of 0.5% that went to 1% of course there is and we will do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u29	The President of the Party's Parliamentary Group Potami Mr Stavros Theodorakis and the Members of his Party tabled on 7-12-2016 a proposal for a law: "Recommendation of a National Security Council on designing and supervising the implementation of all matters relating to national security relating to foreign policy, strategic defence, coordination of information and security of citizens and resources". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, twenty students and students and five educational attendants from the Kokoris Foundation, from the Foundation for the Protection and Rehabilitation of Children with Intellectual Response "The Theotokos" and from the Pan-Hellenic Association of Customized Activities "Alma". The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] My dear Sakis, I hope this time of year, because I heard you about them, talking about them in vain, because now you're talking in the future.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u30	There's a present too. I'll see you tomorrow, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u31	There's the perpetrator, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u32	That's right. The philosopher intervened correctly. Mr Ioannis Vroutzis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is undoubtedly also guaranteed in the consciousness of the political system, but above all in the conscience of the Greek people, that every time the budget debate is held, this is not a simple and random debate, like all the others. It is a top process which in recent years and especially this year - as I will prove and document with what I have to inform the Greek Parliament and the Greek people who are following us - has other features. The Greek people are anxiously and concerned about this debate. Because through the budget debate - in which no one can hide anymore, as the figures are vague and confirm and prove what the truth and reality is - the Greek people want to know what dawns on him, what the next day is for him. On the other hand, unfortunately, for SYRIZA's fellow Members, I fully understand - as the debate is taking place yesterday - that they are in a very difficult position when they come up to this step, because now these vague figures are showing up the lies, confirming the inaccuracies, the SYRIZA tales, but unfortunately they are elements that have to do with the future of things that have recently been promised. It is what the Greek people say 'blows them cold sweat' because they are invited to support things, which are irresistible. That's the truth. But it is customary during the budget debate that we should have the following time: we are talking in committee and the debate then comes to plenary. But beware of a bad time for SYRIZA, because there's another slap in his lies, in the plastic promises. Among the committee and plenary, ladies and gentlemen, it is what the entire Greek people felt, it is the result of the Eurogroup, which Mr Stathakis yesterday in a morning television conversation tried to hide with lies. The truth, however, is in this text, which unfortunately for the Greek people, unfortunately for all of us, this political failure of SYRIZA has once again deplored the Prime Minister, a Prime Minister who has nothing at all to say any lie he wants with any convenience. So, what happened? The Greek people are used to it. Once there was miridism, and now there is "SYRIZAISIS". Mirrorism was what you put the poison slowly so you wouldn't get caught, SYRIZAism is to lie, lie, lies, and at the end the Greek people say "It's okay. Something said Tsipras and from there on out and wrong to be, and lying to be, what happened?" This is the picture, unfortunately, your deception and your government through your lies and your fictional promises. Because, ladies and gentlemen, to remind a little of the latest events - I will not say what the Prime Minister promised in January 2015 with the Thessaloniki Programme, the false pensions, all these great things, which have deceived the workers and the unemployed and brought them to a much worse position. I will not say what he said with the parallel programme in September, which said 'Look, we will implement a programme difficult, but at the same time we will also have a relief programme, the parallel Tsipras - Kammenos program'. None of this. I'm coming now. Three months ago, do you remember what happened, gentlemen of SYRIZA? Prime Minister at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition made two promises. These are what he said, Mr SYRIZA's gentlemen: first, an unreserved account and, secondly, a freezing of the OAU's debts. You made it a flag. For fifteen days, on all channels and newspapers writing your left-wing concept, and what you say from time to time was a front page. What made these two promises? Where are, Ministers, the two promises of the Prime Minister's Thessaloniki? None of them. In other words, unrealistic, the Prime Minister continues to tell the lies as easily as he was calling them election. Let's go now, let's go to the current events. What happened, ladies and gentlemen? The memories of the Greek people are fresh. We talked about it 15 days ago in committee. Firstly, you said: ‘Unnegotiable. We go with 2% primary surplus." First, he collapsed yesterday, 3.5%. You're negotiating incompetent! You are negotiating dangerously for the Greek people! Approximately 2 to 3 billion meters to the Greek people since 2018. That's the truth. Well, first myth, it fell. Secondly, did you not say, Mr President-in-Office, the Minister of Finance, about debt slump, about debt cuts, and you took the elections, cheating on borrowers, Greek people, poor workers? You until recently didn't say you'd be proud of the debt? And now what's going on? This Eurogroup agreement, which now haunts SYRIZA in the debate on the budget, what does it say? It says: Forget the seismic and debt haircuts. We are going to the logic decided by the previous government in 2012 and 2013 for a prolongation of debts and a reduction in interest rates. And it's not that big a deal. We want it. We're not SYRIZA. We welcome anything positive for Greece. We don't fly to the clouds, but we don't lie. That's our big difference. So the second major fraud by Mr Tsipras over the previous period. And thirdly, it's the subject of quantitative relaxation. Didn't you say that 5 December was going to close the evaluation with quantitative relaxation? Third big lie! Neither the evaluation closed nor the quantitative relaxation came! And where are we, ladies and gentlemen? Where did you bring Greece? Zero! You've negotiated the shortcut. From what you received in 2015, you did nothing - if you continued, of course, things would be completely different - and you brought us back to zero and to the minus. You have saved the Greek people with EUR 84 billion and with very difficult measures. And now we're going to the budget items. The budget has two references, the top two pillars: firstly, expectations, it says about 2.7% growth - and where that is based, and why it cannot be done, I will explain to you immediately - and secondly, taxes. The Greek people will suffer a tax shock from 1-1-2017. A tax shock! Why tax shock? Why very simply bring in EUR 2.6 billion new tax measures in the Greek taxpayer's pocket and EUR 1.3 billion increase in insurance contributions. Are you aware of what you have done in Greek society? Do you realize where you have brought the Greek citizen, the Greek worker, what you are creating today with these new measures, which are out of 3.5%? That's the hard reality. And you dare come here Where do you support this? You are supposed to support it, in what you are writing in the budget, for 1.8 billion private consumption growth and 9.1% investment growth. But can you say these things and argue? Will you increase private consumption with 2.6 billion? And leave the DESFA, which is part of the budget, with 400 million, under the responsibility of Mr Skourletis once again, to let investments go, send a message contradictory to society and the markets and the international environment of investment and have the requirement to raise 9.1% of investment? What do you think? Who are you telling? You have been taken by the Greek people, and you see that in polls, you can understand it, of course, in the daily communication you have with Greek citizens. Of course, you understand it not freely - in the sense of outside the world - but in the personal, family, friendly environment each one of you receives the messages of your untrustworthyness. This is the picture, unfortunately, of the budget, unfortunately for the Greek people who have taken the steering wheel of the country with lies and which is in the difficult sea and the triumph in which the Greek economy is located, unfortunately, you have taken us even deeper, in difficult waters from where we had gone at the end of 2014 and the economy had now entered a door and a development, which was undeniable to everyone. They all admit it. And those with whom you are still talking at international and European level admit with their statements that Greece in 2014 was ready to come out of the crisis. Let us see, however, two elements which I consider to be very important and also concern the area of responsibility that I had as Minister of Labour and Social Security. I remember I was on a central channel for elections in 2015, Minister and I committed myself to the Greek people at the time, looking at him and saying, as Minister, that the proportional study that was in existence - it was the one that Mr Mitsotakis submitted in the debate we had on insurance, the 310 million e-mail Hardouvelis on insurance, that was the intervention that he needed - confirmed by the National Analogue Authority of the country, from the institutions - then it was troika, now it was institutions - that showed that the insurance policy was balanced, that it met the sustainability conditions by 2060. That is why I committed - and the previous government - to the Greek people that pensions will not be reduced, but will not be increased. That's what we were talking about. Beside me, Mr Katrugalos, who, representing SYRIZA, committed himself to saying 'Don't listen to them, they are incapable of negotiating, they are pro-merkelists, they can't negotiate'. The next day, as the Prime Minister himself said, he adopted Mr. Tsipras's words: "With our negotiation we will ask them to give us money. Pensions will all go up, wages will go to 751 euros and, of course, the tenth pension from the next day, pensioners will be waiting for it." What happened to that? What happened to that, guys? Where are these promises? Of course, the Greek people saw the next day, after the baroque negotiation - for which Mr Varoufakis was not responsible alone, because it was the Prime Minister's choice - all to collapse, 84 billion new loans on the back of the Greek people and unfulfilled expectations and promises that brought all pensions down. And be careful: Analog study still exists today in the insurance law, which is a mechanism to reduce SYRIZA pensions. There is no proportionate study confirming that it has stabilised. That is why I say that insurance is in the air, the sacrifices of the Greek people and pensioners have been lost and all reductions are unfair and unjust. We pay the price of SYRIZA's learning to the government. That's what the Greek people pay. It is also provocative - let me tell you, because you have done all this - the Prime Minister's statements. But would you allow the Prime Minister to go uninformed to the Thessaloniki International Exhibition and say that only 5% of the pensioners have been reduced? Or Mr Katrugalos go out and send provocative letters and say, "Look, don't believe your pocket, believe my letter." And, of course, there has been a reaction from society, because there is not even a pensioner from the present who has not been reduced and, indeed, a great reduction. I leave the new pensioners, who do not have the comparative precedent and will have a reduction in mid-weights of 25% of their pensions. And I, as always sincerely speak, know that you have committed yourself, have agreed, as I said then, to Mr Katrugalo, when he brought the law to the offices of New Democracy, that the personal difference has been put and committed and abolished. And what does "personal difference" mean? It means 25% reduction beyond these reductions, which will also run on pensioners in 2017, such as the ESS and many other reductions. It means 25% reduction in main pensions for current pensioners! That's what you did! By mistake, you lied, you took the authority and drove the country where you led it. And, of course, let's go to work and say two things because I think that is also more important and more topical in the sense that the negotiation on labour is also supposed to be under way. I really hear the public statements by the Minister, Mrs Ahtsoglou, but I have not seen a text in writing, which formalises your positions, of the SYRIZA, on the workplace does not exist. There's only the election, both September and January, which haunts you, gentlemen of the SYRIZA, and you don't say a word from this Step! What were the expectations you had grown in the workers? Remind them between us now that we're here in the budget. First, 751 minimum wage. Why don't you talk about it? Did you get it out of the negotiating agenda? Why don't you tell the Greek people? Secondly, the abolition of flexible forms of employment. Thirdly, double the unemployment benefit and even double the number of unemployed. And, fourthly, reinstate the minister's veto, that is, this matter of collective redundancies. Only in the fourth were you consistent. So, what did you do? You have brought a third-world function and perception of the labour market, which has been originalizing for forty years negative, of course, which has undermined the labour market, which has shut down thousands of businesses, which has made thousands of jobs on the road and created a great generation of unemployed over time, that is all you have got back. Now think of an international investor who knows that if he comes to put his money in Greece he will depend on Mr. Skourletis or Mr. Katrugalos if something goes wrong tomorrow. That's what you got back. And you're supposed to be negotiating. One more thing. The only public text of the Minister of Labour is one, what came out as the first communication and said to the social partners: "Children, we are going to go to the previous Brooks government's agreement in Geneva, which we did with the ILO and we have shut down the jobs". I would remind you, however, that in the receipt - the Ministry's delivery - I gave two files to the Ministry's political leadership at the time, both for the work and for the insurance and they threw both of them in the name - what? - that "we don't recognize these. We're going to another brave negotiation, a zero-based negotiation," and here's the results. You've thrown out the deals.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u34	What is your position on collective agreements, Mr. Brutsi?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u35	So that is the truth, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. I would remind you that, as Minister, I have carried out major reforms in the labour market. And answer SYRIZA's side.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u36	And hang up with this, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u37	We have to get to know each other at last. And because I hear cowardly - cowardly - you also say the word reform from the SYRIZA side - I do not know what you mean - I recall that our country's labour market was a poorly regulated labour market. Raise on it distortions and pathogens of decades that self-determination. One of them was the Minister's veto. Let someone come out - what SYRIZA got back - to claim there must be a Minister's veto. Is there anyone - of course SYRIZA believes that - who says that the tax should not be reduced, that is, the non-wage cost? Six units reduced it, we were the most expensive labour market against workers. Or is there anyone who can put brakes on the immunity of the employer by defending the workers with real measures, such as 10,500, which SYRIZA disputes, to defend workers, the simple worker and to combat undeclared and uninsured work?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Brutsi, please, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u39	Or the...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u40	Can you hear me, Mr. Brutsi?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u41	...who's been undermining for decades...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u42	If you can hear me, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u43	I'm closing, Mr. President. All these changes in the labour market and some of which you have, some of which have changed, have been pathogens and distortions of decades that have hit the unemployed, have hit the most sensitive part, which has been the labour market. So I want to make a statement. To say it, to come to an agreement as a political system.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u44	This is what you are closing down, Mr Brutsi, because otherwise I will intervene.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u45	I'm closing, Mr. President, of course. If these reforms existed theoretically from the past, the hit on the labour market would have been much lower power, unemployment would not go to 27.9%. Again, if we did not do them the first time we entered the memorandum, unemployment would have been 30%. So here's a splendid field of glory, go ahead. Unfortunately, however, for the Greek people you cannot negotiate or agree with the word truth. You're compromised only with lies and inadequacy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u46	And because Mr Balauras has asked you a question, but you have not heard it in your position, I will answer Mr Balaura out of court. The Chief of Staff has been publicly placed twice on the question you put, one at the exhibition of Thessaloniki and another at Mr. Papachela's interview at the television station that he was working on and was perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u47	Absolutely clear where?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u48	In favour of collective bargaining. Absolutely clear. Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u49	The President-in-Office, Mr Kaklamanis, keeps what he is trying to keep from this once-in-a-life social centre in front of the hollow that, bad luck, today, is in the leadership of the party. Ladies and gentlemen, what irony did John Vroutsi, the Minister of Labour of Antonis Samaras, come down from Stepma and go up the first day that the Greek people had to forget what you have heard and listened to. By who? From Yannis Brutsi, who held it, he preferred to keep the minister's chair and forget. What did he say by shutting down? That they're going to negotiate on a zero basis? Look at the posters of that time. The banner said'renegotiation' and even said very specific articles to be renegotiated. The first Troika meeting was at the Ministry of Labour. It was left with the famous phrase that was given to others, while it was and we should not take it to Antonis Samaras, the mandate of the ministers "and now that the troika comes to four". It was his. No matter how shocking it is, it's bothering, it was his. What about today? Mr Brutsis' speech, of course, welcomed most of the Greek people who are unhappy with the policy followed. But isn't the Prime Minister himself saying so? Does it not say that society is rightly displeased? But otherwise you must be crazy. However, under no circumstances - I am sure - those who listened to Mr Brutsi have not forgotten 'no sinless', another characteristic expression of the so-called post-associated one. Ladies and gentlemen, some twenty-four hours ago the Eurozone finance ministers agreed to provide Greece with a more favourable package of debt relief measures, which is undoubtedly positive and must be welcomed with honesty and boldness at least than those who do not demolish the truth for the benefit of party purposes. Is there enough of the measures agreed on the debt? I think not. But it is the first time that Europe has provided a concrete relief package and is responding to the commitments it has sometimes made in the past, but has not done so. We do not, therefore, deserve not to respond to the challenge. We are not entitled - I think, no one - to wish that this effort would fail, because at the end of the day the Greek people pay it and nobody wants us to go back in 2009, no matter how much time-consuming it does. Pending my turn, I saw the press today that Mr Georgiou was acquitted. Why? Because in 2009, as the members of ELSTAT's board of directors tabled yesterday, he came to do the will, he says, of the IMF and as George Papandreou told him. Mr. Logottis and Mrs. Georganta said so in court. And he was acquitted! Well, in 2009 no one wants to come back...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u50	He was acquitted of the issue of his folding and not of the substance of the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u51	That's right, Mr. Kaklamani, and you do well to say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u52	So, why are they keeping them practically?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u53	I most wanted to highlight exactly the "monitor" elements, which said that it changed them by order. And then we said - and SYRIZA said - that we will take him to prison - and him and Papandreou - but we made him a partner after power. And I guess I don't have to introduce myself, saying 'we', I mean the classics of the New Democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, we must recognise a positive development that I fear, however, also involves negative developments, particularly as regards the existence of the financial area that the country needs in order to support a development programme. What I am referring to is a direct relation between the budget that we are discussing, for which, both in the committee of this House and today, I express my complete disappointment. I do not feel that I would offer good services to the government or to the place if I accepted and voted in favour of the budget that we have before us. The maintenance of surpluses of 3.5% of GDP, which, as we heard from Brussels, is expected to be maintained over the next few years, is not just a narrow but a suffocating corset, which requires new blood from the Greek people to be achieved. It is an absolutely visionary and totally impracticable objective, in my personal view, for the coming years. Even for 2017, however, the need to achieve this goal is certain that it will cost even more poverty and despair to the Greek people, who are already sighing and cannot meet their basic needs. Ladies and gentlemen, many people call it, together with them and I since the beginning of the crisis, and I will continue today from this step forward to say that here in Athens and Brussels some technocrats are not enough to look only at the numbers. But we, who are politicians, would say that we are not allowed to live in them. We must stand above the technocrats and above the numbers, looking at people in person. What is the policy of recent memorial years on which these primary surpluses are based? It is the policy of lenders to continuously increase the tax rates in all individual sectors of taxation. So what don't we understand? What is it that prevents us from streamlining the policies that are being pursued and which continue to affect the many and the weak, and in extremely unequal and unjust ways? Financial order does not mean economic euthanasia for the citizens. Greece will never return to development with a broken society. We are aware of this and I am sure that - and I would like to believe - the government which still follows its deadlock one year, adding new unbearable burdens to those who are no longer able to buy basic foods. We are therefore called upon to vote on a budget which brings further 2.5 billion more taxes, most of which are indirect. Can we say yes to such a plan? I, ladies and gentlemen, cannot and will not say 'yes'. In my vote, I do not want the primary surplus to increase on the backs of ordinary weeds with the already cut-off pensions that feed horns, with the wages of hunger which in the private sector are particularly paid for in the loss and fall. I wonder, when I hear in this Chamber some colleagues who allegedly support their proposals in common sense - says Mitsotakis - and in politically correct - say again - whether we are living in the same world and we are, if Mr Mitsotakis is truly aware of the unemployed, in private sector employees. Why did I just see a video that the journalist asks him "Have you lived with 700 euros ever?" and it says 'no, and I do not imagine that anyone with 700 euros can live'. But he is now talking about the abolition of collective agreements, about leaving what is still there. If we really have a feeling of the amount of cubicles that are daily provided by clubs, by metropolitan associations, by parishes, I think that with very difficulty no one can continue to trust such a policy. I live in this world, and that is why I cannot give my vote to a slaughterhouse budget that can be approved by lenders, but will never be approved by the citizens of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago the applause to the outgoing President of the United States was raining when he was here in Athens talking about growth and said that public spending was helping this development. But the government is doing exactly the opposite, and the Civic Opposition supports this recipe, which everyone now knows is a disaster. That is why I am not just wondering, but I am really disappointed and reacting, seeing the government adopt a full neoliberal fiscal policy programme, but also an opposition that wants to be called centre-rights and, yet, to adopt the recipes of the IMF and Brussels, supporting, for example, the idea of collective agreements, the protection of first residence, the refusal of mass redundancies in the public sector in particular. And as I come from this centre-right flesh from her flesh, I wonder: Truly, who does Mr. Mitsotakis represent? BSE or smoked barbecue fighters of the IAEA, who a few days ago denounced BSE, saying that it corresponds to the positions of the IMF and offends the social partners? The New Democracy is in Opposition today. Can he finally have a clean talk about wages and pensions, about redundancies? Can its plan to raise the economy beyond the general tax reduction findings, particularly in business profits, tell us about tax reductions? Can he tell us whether he agrees or does not at last disagree with all these critical issues? Can this deal of truth at last tell us if it's the wrapping of the memorandum? I am, however, coming back to the government, because it is its budget that we are discussing, its own work and the result of its own acts, and I say that I regret that the budget, unfortunately, provides for a 3.7% reduction in expenditure, namely EUR 1.7 billion. These cuts come mainly from pensions, where the knife reaches 600m euros. How can one support such choices, when multiple cuts have been made by the governments that were before and which we rightly stigmatized, regardless of whether Yiannis just before forgot and followed the recipe "to burn you, to grind you honey". I would like to remind you that in 2012, when it was revealed that the Antonis Samaras Government, unfortunately, wanted to forget its commitments, it is time for the opposition to have before it, before it made commitments to its behaviour as a government. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years we have heard again from the government that it is not going to take any new measures. Really, is that anyone who believes that? Unfortunately, the Greeks have lost their hope and confidence, and they finally want that government which, as they all show, still has room to improve the situation, to move faster, more courageous and not to follow the example of the former. It is wrong to say that the lenders "go over" and we do so by depriving them of survival oxygen from society, knowing that with this recipe it will never come. It is wrong to expect that with the current structure of the state and tax administration there can be reasonable and fair. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we should give two figures for those who are following the debate from the Parliamentary channel. The budget provides for a reduction, as I told you, of expenditure of EUR 600 million from pensions. I imagine you realise that this is how this money is actually being deducted from the real market, that is, from the children's coup and from the help of the unemployed of each family. Is it possible for this policy to go away? Can this policy correct any of these? Of course, not that budget either. After all, this government does not even claim that. What he says is that this budget is in line with the memorandums, its own and the previous ones, and that the objectives agreed with the creditors will be achieved. The only less credible promise the government gives is that no new measures will be needed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I am sorry, but such policies - I am closing, Mr President - cannot support it. I'm not signing a new sacrifice to the people. Ladies and gentlemen, the government, I fear, has entered a sadness it will never open. I really hope I'm disproved because the place needs it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u54	The Minister now has the floor, Mr Muzalas. Then we'll be on the list of colleagues. The first four are Mr. Balaouras, Mr. Vlassi, Mr. Kouzilos, Mr. Papatheodorou. They will take the floor four to five colleagues and will be followed by a Minister, in particular Mrs Konordos, Minister for Culture, who is already in the Chamber. Here, Mr Muzala, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I come to speak about the budget as Minister of a newly established ministry. The problem that our country has lived and continues to live since 2015, with the outbreak in September 2015, is well known, has been discussed, we have agreed on some things, we have disagreed on others. I will try to speak to you without a lot of reactions, without a crown, and without pointing up accusations, just to find out. This problem has led to the need to create a Ministry of Migration Policy. Why? Our country has proved to be unarmed administratively, irreversible in political terms to the refugee and immigration wave that broke out. It has also proved to be administratively inadequate for the treatment of immigrants, legal and illegal, who have been in our country since 2000 until the refugee wave broke out. Let me tell you that from 2000 to 2015 the police have recorded about one million immigrants who went through and came to our country. And anyone who knows of them understands that a large number, at least 30%, went by without recording those years. Therefore, the problem of immigration was not something unknown in our country. What was unknown was our immigration policy. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] And there remains a question. This 1 million plus, who went through our country, where is it? Today we record three hundred thousand legal immigrants and estimate that there are another three hundred thousand unrecorded. Where are they? There was not this administrative structure which could deal with, record and formulate a policy, not fragmentally but overall on this problem. And then there was the problem of the greatest migration and refugee flows in Europe since World War II, which happened to the SYRIZA government to deal with it. What does a Ministry of Migration Policy have to do? We need to restore errors that have been made. Asylum Service: We are currently getting into the Asylum Service. But look at something, before we make comparisons, why in the debates here we say "In Germany how did they do it?" In Germany the Asylum Service was established in 1958. Today he has two and a half thousand employees, apart from the contractors. In the Netherlands, it was created in 1963. In our country it was created five years ago. When SYRIZA picked her up, she had two hundred employees. Today we have necessarily exceeded the six hundred, together with a hundred and fifty three from UNHCR, which "loved them" to the Asylum Service, so that we can move forward. And they don't get there. So being clear to everyone that we need a Asylum Service, which can deal quickly and solve this trick of anyone who comes to our country making a request for asylum, we need a great increase. Our programming is another two hundred hires via ASP until 2017 and another two hundred recruitments within 2017, apart from the contractors who are awarded each one. 70% of the money for the Asylum Service, so far they are made by Community funds. Welcome: We were a country powerless. We had no reception. SYRIZA has received a thousand reception posts. The Court of Justice of Strasbourg threatened us with condemnation - not us, the previous governments - if we did not make another two thousand reception posts and the previous three years, before SYRIZA became a government, we did not build these reception posts, so that we were convicted by the Strasbourg Council. Watch out now, a million people went through the year 2000 to 2015 and a 30% more that wasn't recorded. That's what migratory science says. Thousands of reception posts. That doesn't make sense, that's not politics. We are paying for this lack of politics, and the government here aspires to cover the creation of the Ministry of Migration Policy. There is no point in telling you that under bad conditions, we have been forced, we have created fifty-five thousand hospitality places, bad - we have discussed them before - we are improving them, etc. Reception service: sixty people, before the migratory crisis. People who have passed and should have the Reception Service welcome them and identify them: from 2000 to 2015 over a million who have been registered by the police, plus a 30% that has not been recorded. Zero. Sixty employees. We will also go there, to new officials, always through the ADP, always through state law, with transparency, plus contracts, so that we can respond exactly to what previous governments have not responded to. Because, you know, having reception positions is not only a human right to whom it comes. It is, at the same time, a security for the state, namely, knowing where everyone is, it is a security for the person who comes, and for his own human rights, it is of great importance for social cohesion, it is of great importance for the second stage, which is integration. Unaccompanied minors: three hundred places. SYRIZA received three hundred positions on unaccompanied minors. Since March, when unaccompanied minors staying in Greece, the SYRIZA Government, with the help of the European Union, has created a hundred posts a month. Today we have a thousand hundred places for unaccompanied minors and our plan is within 2017 to have created another thousand places. That is all, of course, provided that the flows will continue to be the ones that the Europe-Turkey agreement has brought about, that is, this huge reduction in flows, and we will not have an increase in flows as was the case before. Another part which, within this great storm of refugees and immigrants found us, has been forced to forget, forced and neglected, is the existence of these refugees and immigrants already in existence in our country. I'm telling you, it's a million. Where are they, guys, them? They're registered three hundred thousand. Where is he? It's been a million by the police, a hundred thousand by the mathematicians, without the police being able to record them. Where are they? What will we do for those who are legally or illegally in our country? So the Integration Service must increase its powers and increase its work. The Integration Service is an agency that has remained neglected, because there was no concern on the part of the Greek state, a willingness to help these people, to distinguish those who can be legitimised in the future and to be able to motivate them to join. I repeat: accession is wrong - and it is wrong to do so - only in terms of the human rights of migrants and refugees, because integration is security, it is social cohesion and it is development. And that applies to all countries, and it is also a scientific theory, which no matter how much one wants to make opposition, cannot change it. The money provided for in the budget for the Ministry of Migration Policy is the main one, because the policy that we are going to implement - and so far we have successfully implemented it - is to claim, firstly, and, secondly, to absorb money from the European Union. I would like to say to you because we have succeeded, this government has succeeded in raising the problem not in Greek, but in a European problem which is happening in Greece, it is happening in Italy for Italians respectively. Through this logic, we claim money. We're getting them. We have absorbed the emergency funds. And now we are in a position and we are constantly increasing the absorption of regular funds. The national resources which will be used, because you cannot deal with immigration and refugee without the use of national funds, are fortunately deducted from the framework of the agreement, that is to say, they will not be charged to our country. In conclusion, I would like to say that within the measures that the SYRIZA Government is planning to take, it is funding from the European Union and from the budget, it is a large part of it to go through to the municipalities and especially to these municipalities, this part of local government, which is more than anyone else tested by the refugee and immigration. Ladies and gentlemen, we estimate that, since the flows are not increased and since the agreements with the European Union are being implemented by the end of 2017, more than twenty thousand refugees will have relocated to Europe. At the same time we must ensure for them, and for us, conditions of human dignity, which also honor our dignity, and safety conditions for them and for us in an area that is clearly disturbed and unsafe. I mean the Mediterranean basin, I mean the Aegean, I mean the Mediterranean on the Italian side. Refugee is an issue that does not raise voices, does not raise voices, does not raise political murders. It is a different thing to criticise the management, criticise it or the other, and it is a different thing to put the refugee on a major opposition issue. I think that so far opposition within the House, on the democratic arc, has succeeded and kept some tons of dignity, despite all the disagreements we might have. I would therefore call for this to continue, if we can, as far as the Europe-Turkey Agreement is concerned, have our country solved this problem over the next two or three years. Not to have solved it by hiding it under the carpet, not having solved it without knowing where all those who went, who are, what it is, how it is, but by resolving it on the basis of the international treaties, the Greek legislation, the Geneva Treaty, and especially on the basis of the possibilities and prospects for integration of those who are staying here and on matters that benefit the security of our country and the development prospects of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u56	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u57	Again?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u58	For what point of order, Mr. Loverdos? There's no procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u59	There is no question of procedure every three minutes. The procedure has been agreed from the outset. Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u60	Before I give you the floor, let me tell you that - at least that I received from Mr Kaklamani - we are in the process in which the Minister speaks, they will speak five Members, they will speak with the Minister and we will proceed. In addition, we have nothing to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u61	Would you like me to send you the request with two signatures to take the floor automatically, or may I ask you to give me thirty seconds? I want to say something today that I said yesterday, and the President of Parliament was right. If you do not give me the floor, I shall apply the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u62	Apply the Rules of Procedure. We're on our way with Mr. Gerosmos Balaura for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u63	Colleagues, listening to the opposition one and a half days now, the lyrics of Manolis Anagnostakis have come to mind as your victims - New Democracy and PASOK - shouting at these lyrics of Anagnastakis. Listen to them: "We didn't just lose our little wages. The most expensive remembrance we've ever been hiding in the cassette. At the end of the day, our own house with all the belongings. We didn't make good paper. We're lost. We were getting lost all the time. Give us back" - they are shouting - 'our years. Give us back our papers." Because, ladies and gentlemen of the counterpopulation I have named, you have left behind a country looted on ruins. Where do you start the reconstruction, and even in a hospitable hurricane you're yelling at? From this state the clientele without structures, with a huge bureaucracy, without quality services, a state-grass, a state-runner in the occupants? Are you talking about combating tax evasion, tax evasion, smuggling? You didn't just put up with them, but together you set them up. With what structures? With what staff? What have you left behind so that we can implement our policy? And above all, because you can't make politics, you do micro-political in agreement with your favourite media, if Tsipras went to Paros with the fifty-three - while he went with six - if Tsipras, as an unknown pilot, said, spent 300,000 euros, while he was only 23 000 euros to pay tribute on the part of all Europeans - I stress this - to the people who inspired and inspire millions of despised people to gain their lost pride.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u64	They authorized him?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u65	Yes, Mrs. Vulge, their lost pride. To feel people in Latin America, Africa, Asia, and Europe still.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u66	Let him release some more prisoners.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u67	Leave that propaganda, that shadow.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u68	What propaganda? He's in jail.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u69	The 2017 budget was drawn up in a series of social features, with a clear aim to protect the poorest sections of the Greek people and to strengthen public health and education. But, the day before yesterday, the success of our country in declining debt at first - I stress - short-term levels you have commented negatively. It was decided to reduce the debt of 22% of GDP, i.e. about EUR 45 billion, and to convert the variable interest rates to a constant level of 1.5% that protects the Greek economy into an environment of increased international uncertainty. However, despite the fact that we are in this uncertainty, we are in no way going to accept the requirement for measures after the end of the programme. We remain firmly in our position that Greece cannot be an exception to European normality in terms of industrial relations. Previously, I asked Mr Brutsi, the incumbent in charge of the New Democracy, as Minister and as shadows today. The shadow will, of course, stay, but it doesn't matter. As far as Mr Mitsotakis is concerned, Mr Kaklamanis tried to correct him. And we know the well-known debate Mr Kaklamanis made in public that Mr Mitsotakis took the line from New Democracy to protect collective bargaining, but then retreated into the most intransigent elements of his party. This is the situation with the New Democracy and with the present leadership. The debate on medium and long-term debt measures will continue. The aim of this debate is to further alleviate the Greek debt which will lead downwards and the primary surpluses after the end of the programme. And instead of having the courage to welcome this important development, you have the courage to compare it to the notorious PSI. Yesterday, all the speakers of the New Democracy and PASOK spoke about the PSI that the whole world - all of them know and blames it - a final push in the break-up of the insurance funds. Nineteen billion cost the PSI to the insurance funds. It destroyed the micronomists who had put everything that they had in the so-called powerful state - not simply powerful, but honest - to protect their investments and immerse the Greek banks by supporting foreign banks. That was your PSI. You spoke - and indeed in the Committee on Economic Affairs - about debt. I'll put this issue up and call Mr. Venizelos and others to talk about the PSI. You are talking about primary surpluses you committed for years to unthinkable primary surpluses amounting to 4.5%, while current legislation saves 20 billion. Colleagues, the budget is an emergency budget. It goes from the third memorial that we had to sign in the summer of 2015 and that with its great joy and great impatience New Democracy co-signed. You're talking about Stournara. It's not what the Bank of Greece says. Let's get this straight. Yannis Stournaras says this, which we all know very well about his recent past. The Bank of Greece never said it cost 86 billion. And yet, exactly half of what New Democracy and PASOK would have taken if they had stayed in the government. We would obviously like other funds, such as culture. [[At this point, the closing bell of the honourable Member's speech hits a warning bell.]] I would like some time, Mr President, please. We are seeking to catch up with the agreed targets to bring us closer to normality, so that we can finish a good thing with the neoliberal committee. I won't say a lot of numbers. I shall now proceed and conclude, Mr President, with the following: We gave substantial funds, 400 billion more than in 2016. We're talking about a humanitarian crisis. The humanitarian crisis didn't come from over. No one brought her that way. You created it. Taxes are indeed heavy, both direct and indirect. We want to reduce them progressively. Chakalotos suggested that creditors accept a reduction in the surplus target from 3.5% to 2.5% and that 1% should go back to the backbone of the economy, to small and medium-sized enterprises. This proposal expresses the SYRIZA's will to reduce the current high taxes actually borne by competitiveness. Our difference with Mr Mitsotakis, the leadership of the New Democracy, is that we do not put tax cuts above the protection of those who have been hardest hit by the crisis, above the welfare state. In many things I have to say - and we have been centrally told - that we are slow and we need to move faster, for corruption, on the establishment of the new production model that we would like to see. But no matter what you say, no matter what you do, along with elites and canals you won't be able to put us in your dashboard, in the crowbar of looting, pillaging, corruption, dishonesty, lawlessness. We will move on to give hope to our winter people again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr Balaura, SYRIZA MP. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended from the bottom Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and in the Library of the House and being informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, Ambassadors, spouses of foreign diplomatic missions in Greece, as well as ladies and gentlemen of the Greek High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The following document has been sent to the Bureau: 'Mr President, the floor is requested, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, by the Parliamentary Representative of the Democratic Alliance.' It does not mention what it is and what it is co-signed. Charakopoulos and Papatheodorou. I assume it's on the intercepting issues...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u71	Rule 67(2), Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u72	Article 67(2). He doesn't say who he is. For four reasons it may be inadmissible: The cause for violation of a specific provision of Parliament's Rules of Procedure or a complaint for failure to comply with the order of the agenda - neither of which applies - or a proposal to postpone the debate...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u73	You don't know that. We'll see when we talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u74	I'll tell you. In any case, it says in paragraph 3 that the objections (a) and (b) - that is, I read - are submitted in writing to the President of Parliament by at least two Members - none of these two - and in any case, the word is given to the first, as they sign up. The first to sign is Mr. Harakopoulos. I give the floor for two minutes to Mr Charakopoulos to tell us what is the issue of a violation of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Here, Mr. Harakopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u75	Mr President, the parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Alliance, Mr Loverdos, asked me to sign up to his request for the House to know the ministers who will be invited throughout the five-day sitting to take the floor. I think that for the better preparation of Members and the organisation of the debate, it will be right to know the number of ministers, which ministers will take the floor on these five days. I think the President of this House made a commitment yesterday that we would know that. So far we have not heard which ministers will take the floor in this House. We would like clarification on that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr. Harakopoulos. I think the request is perfectly reasonable. Immediately after the five Members, Mrs Connordou will speak. Some minor reconversions are made by the Government Secretariat. Once the list has been completed, it will also come to the Members to know exactly what is happening and what is happening. In that sense, let us move on to Mr Vlasi.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u77	Mr President, I will come back with a new request such as, for the first time, the President of the Parliament has put it today. I used the current procedure. That was my point. I want to say two arguments...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u78	But I have told you that the request is accepted, and I have also described it as reasonable. If there is another issue, we should see it again on time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u79	We'll see it again after the next speaker. You're unacceptable, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u80	Who is unacceptable, let the House consider it. Let's move the process forward, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u81	No, Mr. President. We will see it after this speaker, with your responsibility. We'd have finished it. You don't want to go that way? We'll go differently.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u82	But I told you that the request is accepted. If there's another request...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u83	No, Mr. President. "Received" means that you're giving us the directory. The directory isn't ready yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u84	I told you that the list will be here as soon as it is completed, because there are minor changes. So far, however, we know that four other Members - that is another half hour - will be speaking by the Minister of Culture, Mrs Conordou, at the time of her being given. Then four other Members will follow - that is another half hour - and then we will have the next Minister. So you understand that the issue will arise at least after an hour and a half for who will succeed Mrs Konordos. Mr Vlassis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not hide from you that every time I hear such inspiring speeches like that of Mr Balaura, I first make the mood, I am disappointed, but in the end I regret, because it seems to me that, really, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, you have taken a final divorce with reality. And if you don't understand it fast, you know that, at least, people have understood it. So the 2017 budget is the manifesto of the political truth of SYRIZA - ANLE Government. After the excuses and refreshings of last year's budget, we now have the collapse of your'red' lines, the weakening or even the reversal of the social deeds that you would proudly put in your political decisions, the real person of your so-called left strategy. The 2017 budget bears all the characteristics of your failed governance. He is a hard, sterile taxman, has no vision and a long-term strategy and - unfortunately for all of us - he is not going to achieve his objectives. It is a budget that could well be simply renamed to 'poorer' as it does not solve problems, it only touches on the latest drops of liquidity among Greek citizens and the market. And for those who wonder, no longer carry the burdens on shipowners and industrialists, as you usually say. Unless you want to convince us that they're the only ones who enjoy coffee and use the fixed telephony. On the basis of your constant tactics, of course, I imagine that even now this tough budget will try to present it as a success. I imagine you'll gladly cloak the winner's cloak and try to convince us how effective you are. Don't waste your powers wrongly. Your left advantage has become left analgesia now. And that's what all Greek citizens know, because even if they don't understand from indicators and numbers, they experience your inability every month that they get their pensions chopped down, every time the housekeeper's basket needs more money to fill, every time they visit a collapsed hospital. Ladies and gentlemen, the numbers don't lie. You impose new taxes directly and indirectly, pension cuts and social protection of EUR 2.6 billion. And to have a clear picture of this size, I should like to note that this is almost a new HICPIA, the one you would proudly abolish. Your so-called left-hand sensitivity applies the toughest memorandum, in which the tax and insurance income ratios in relation to expenditure reach 93%. The state's dues to private entities have increased by 63% on your government, and the debts of citizens and businesses to the state have exceeded 17 billion. Investments tend to become a species to be extinct. We did not expect anything other than a government, which stubbornly refuses to make structural changes, from a government that in 2016 with uncertainty and overtaxation led for the first time to close more companies than they opened up. With your ideoleptic insistence on tax evasive austerity, you are not going to achieve anything, as, as we all know, not if you receive it than you have. And yet, in the 2017 budget, you are talking about developing the order of 2.7%. And here we are all wondering: are you in a position to know the difference between the requisite and the possible one? Do you govern the country on the basis of wishes and over-estimate expectations or on the basis of realistic goals? In what magical way do you intend to drive private consumption up when loading citizens with additional tax burdens? How will you increase investment by 9.1% when your allergic reactions to capital are now known at the end of the world? Even if we have to admit, of course, that you have shown a special ability to comprehend, manipulate and capitalize the popular feeling in the previous elections, your knowledge of market psychology remains below modest, because unlike your loved tactics based on anger, markets and investments, Mr Stathakis, they are moving on cold logic. And you know that, but you're hiding it. I am really sorry about the new measures which will burden Greek citizens. I am sorry, however, because these measures are not intended to get us out of this crisis at last, the crisis that has troubled us so many years. Even 100% success will be, even if your most optimistic forecasts are confirmed, then the country will lead to 2014 levels. And that is what someone who was not a Member of Parliament tells you at the time when the New Democracy government had managed to approach the turning point of this current course. I'm not saying it. It's called numbers. That stability you feared, because you were aware that your populist images and empty left-wing promises would not have any resonance in a society in conditions of normality. You did everything you could to come to power and, unfortunately, you did not only stand to the extent of the circumstances, but you turned the country and the Greek economy very much back. The sacrifices the Greeks will make, they will unfortunately not be made to see a white day. They will be to pay for the costume - and even without a tie - of the 100 billion of your supposedly brave negotiation will be done, because you have allowed time to pass, lost in your ideoleptic claws. The New Democracy as the only force for responsibility for our country, is voting against the budget and is confronting realistic and practicable proposals that can produce results and lead home with steady steps towards growth and prosperity. And no, we don't have any magic wand, nor are we expecting one of God's machines. Our professional understanding, experience of life and appetite for work are our own strengths. And soon the Greek people will give us the opportunity to make use of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u86	Thank you. Until I get to know Mr. Kaklamanis on the cause you have raised, let us move on to Mr. Kouzilos. Come on, Mr. Kouzele, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u87	Thank you very much, Mr President. Another Memorandum of Understanding, another Substantive, Taxing Budget, another Penal Budget for the Greek. In order for a sovereign state to stand up, it should ensure its primary production. Of course, we see that for primary production and for basic pillars of development what we have is taxes, taxes and taxes. What the New Democracy has done, you go on with it too. And in general we have come to be a country providing services. The State budget should be a development budget. ‘development’ and ‘competitive’ are unknown words. One of the main pillars of the development of our state is the Hellenic Commercial Shipping. It gives us 7% with 10% of GDP, a hundred and sixty thousand jobs, about 14 billion revenues per year, and of course gives us international authority and geopolitical power. And, of course, we're number one and the world's first in transport capacity. What have you done for all this? The Pan-Hellenic Naval Federation strike. All the naval unions have a strike, and we don't know where it's coming. But what is the point of all this? The reason is that you are under pressure from the institutions or loan sharks - as you used to call them before - to change the taxation of Greek seafarers. I'll do a little parentheses. The New Democracy had increased taxation. From 1% and 3% has currently gone to 10% and 15% for officers and crew. But what's the problem now? Starting and increasing taxation to 60%, according to the new data that will come, problems will also arise in the state budget. For example, too many seamen will go to unsafe ships. This will have a direct impact on NAT, mainly. It will reduce contributions and create a big hole in our state budget and insurance fund. Why is the strike going on right now? There are two reasons, the demands. The first is not to change the pension scheme of Greek seafarers and the second - a very simple request from the Pan-Hellenic Naval Federation - is to abolish the provisions of Law No.4387/2016, i.e. not to tax the Greek seafarer with 60%. In all the other maritime states, the seafarer is free of tax. What are you going to do? You are going to do what Germany and the IMF tell you to do, what you are told by those who call "subjections". In 2015, in a total of twenty - two thousand registered seamen, we had about twelve and a half thousand, insured at the NAT, with contributions of about 150 million. That was a perspective so that we could develop it, as you said at SYRIZA. You said you'd raise the number of people insured, our register, etc. Now what do we see? We see that of the four thousand ships on the Greek register we will definitely fall below, under three and a half thousand, resulting in problems in the currency, in the NAT and in general in small and medium-sized enterprises, because that was the whole thing. The Greek sailor was giving his neighborhood. He had money to be able to do more than anyone else in these memorial times we live in. Therefore, the Ministry of Labour's budget will have a big black hole in 2017, if - I stress it again - it goes through what the Germans want. The letter of the shipowners' association in 2012 said: “With surprise and indignation we found that after the resolution of the memorandum you cheated in the worst way, once again, the maritime family.” And then, there were assurances that the Greek seafarers would not be affected by tax and pensions. In November of 2013, the Minister, Mr. Mousouroulis, said that we are under great pressure to change these two, taxes and pensions. The increase in taxation is coming with New Democracy and, of course, the rest follows, as were the privatizations. Make a little parentheses here. We are waiting very soon, as we hear, for the port of Thessaloniki to be demilitarized. One provision we make is that the competition will be declared barren, because the Greek State is asking for 120 million for the sale of the EGF. But what we are hearing is that investors - according to what you say yours - want less than 90 million. Therefore, do not expect this money you expect from the militarisations. Here's another black hole. Mr Kourublis said on this that 'all is unfounded and we will not accept any new measures on taxation'. Let me remind you that there is in Memorandum II of PASOK and the New Democracy - not to say that it is unfounded - and today's Shoeble's statement, which said 'take new measures or else bankruptcy'. The 2012 Memorandum said - by the European Council - in Article 40: ‘Out of specific tax regimes for farmers and seafarers’. In other words, what New Democracy and PASOK have not been able to do will be brought by you, because you are serving the Memorandum and you are loyally following German policy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. There is no question of the OLF at the moment. Fourteen other regional ports will follow. If that is what you call the country's development policy, from there on what else do we have to say? In general, we see that there is no prospect. The whole budget will be left on paper. Not applicable. And in fact, what you are going to do is dismantle again with taxes and taxation on the Greek family. As your American friends say, anyone who controls the streets of trade controls the world. And while we have the geopolitical position and the prospect of being in this game, unfortunately with your policy, we will lose it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u88	With regard to Mr Loverdus' request, we have not yet found Mr Kaklamanis, to see what else was discussed and promised by Mr Kaklamanis. Tell us within two minutes what this is about and then we will contact Mr Kaklamani so that we can be in harmony with the spirit. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u89	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the meticulous ones have never solved the problems. And a small example - procedural, of course, not substance - is today. You required absolute and faithful adherence to the letter - not of the spirit - of the Rules of Procedure for something that would be over in thirty seconds. Mr President, and yesterday, before the procedure began, when the President of Parliament explained to us the procedure decided by the Conference of Presidents before the House said yes to the President's proposal, I spoke. And the President of Parliament gave me right, because I raised a matter after the experience we had last year. What happened last year? Has it been arranged in the way you know how the intervention of Members and of Parliament's groups here, but most of the Ministers' interventions - by coincidence, by planning? I do not know - it took place on the last day, and as a result of the great interest in the budget alone - the government. I have therefore invoked this negative experience and said that we should have the list of Ministers to intervene in good time, making a hint, if the Minister and the Deputy Minister speaks, that the State Secretary should not speak. And I am not talking about Mr Liako who is here with the Prime Minister. I heard him and the morning he spoke, and of course he has something to say. The House will judge whether it was serious or not, but it is quite right to speak as State Secretary to the Prime Minister. But, from there on, the government must see it with a restraint and restraint so that the decision-making process is not distorted. On the basis of this need for the non-infringement of the parliamentary procedure, I made my request. And why would it be a distortion, Mr President? Because the order is determined on the basis of the power of the parties, on the basis of the time that has been set and the others, but the interventions of the ministers are distorting this parliamentary order. We are still not in the position of the speakers. I asked Mr. Voutsi for it yesterday. He told me "Tomorrow". I asked Mr Kaklamani to do so today. He said to me "slower". One thing is to give us the list. It is quite possible that we have changes, as the secretariat tells us, from today to other days of the Council of Ministers. A second issue, Mr President-in-Office, and a warning: a list may be given today, but it may change and all changes go towards the logic of'more Ministers on Saturday'. We will not accept that. And I am warning you now that it will not be a matter of a mere parliamentary exchange of arguments, but it will be a matter of conflict within this House, which is not right. We must avoid this and it depends on your role.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u90	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u91	In conclusion, I should like to say again - because you are doing so for the first time - that in a meticulous way we do not give the problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u92	However, you said about what I said earlier. But it doesn't matter if we don't stay on it. I said earlier that, first of all, I also accept the logic that the entire government should not accumulate on Saturday. So what we have already been up to today is five Members, one minister, so that on Saturday I think this will have to be resolved. On the list of ministers, the list goes to the parties. They know the parties exactly what this is all about. We're moving on. Mr Papatheodorou, Member of the Democratic Alliance, will now have the floor, then Mr Katsotis will speak and then the Minister will speak. Will you allow me for thirty seconds, Mr. Papatheodorou?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u93	You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theories, after taking part in the educational program "KappostyRIA", organized by the Foundation of Parliament, twenty-two students and students and two educational escorts from the Canta Schools. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] You are following the debate on the state budget. The floor will be taken by the Member of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Papatheodorou. You have the floor, Mr. Papatheodorou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministers of State, Taxation and Religious Affairs, but also unfoundedly optimistic, presents the budget for the financial year 2017. It includes new taxes amounting to EUR 2.5 billion, resulting from the cumulative impact of the unfavourable fiscal measures by SYRIZA - ANEL, of the EUR 12.5 billion in the third memorandum with high expectations of growth of 2.7% of GDP and a primary surplus of 1.8. As we can see, however, and as the Parliament's Budget Office points out, the 2017 budget inevitably works in a substantial way, as it reduces costs and seeks to increase tax revenues. Thus, budgetary measures for 2017 amount to 3.1 billion in revenue and 960 million in expenditure. Of the 3,1 billion revenues, 2.5 billion are new taxes, imposed by 1-1-2017 and will be called upon to pay taxpayers by increasing taxes on natural and legal persons, professionals and farmers, increasing indirect taxes and new taxes. At the moment we see that the tax storm concerns all citizens. More taxes are demanded by the government when the economy is marginal with the danger of the cutter being misled. The 960 million cuts in expenditure mainly result from the new cuts for 2017 for pensions and social rights. It is therefore absolutely clear that there is no governmental argument for a redistribution policy and social justice. What did we hear before? We have heard of the budget with a strong social footprint. A remarkable first of the second budget of SYRIZA - ANEL, which we all have to pay attention to, is the total of the taxes that are expected to be collected in 2017, which is the highest from 2007 until now as an amount, but also as a percentage of GDP. We have the highest tax rate since 2007. The budget figures confirm the country's precipitation to the recession, uncertainty and constant cut in the Greek people's available incomes. It's bleeding. Additional budgetary measures are revealed by mainly imposing new taxes, killing the real economy. This is therefore also a counter-developmental, inefficient, economic and social unjust budget. With the enhanced tax burden, citizens will continue to accept new tax incursions, reductions in wages, reductions in pensions. Everything in this government is done and is based on clandestineness, confusion and contradictions, ladies and gentlemen. In his work, recently notified by the Ministry of Finance, the former Deputy Minister of Finance, Alexiadis, said that legislation is being promoted in the actions of 2016 to extend the application of Article 41 of Law 4172/2013 until 31/12/2018. In the explanatory statement, the following description was given: ‘For reasons of strengthening the real estate market in a critical period for the recovery of the Greek economy, it is proposed to suspend the application of the capital gains tax by transferring real estate’. To understand now the extent of the contradiction and confusion, in which you are or of the deliberate withdrawal - so tell us - in the budget there is provision and record for the receipts of EUR 24 million in code 0116 compared with 0 in 2016 from the tax on capital transfers in excess of capital. So, what does the government do? What's going on? Does it ignore the content of the publication of the statement by the former Minister of Finance, or does it consider how market strengthening has occurred, the recovery of the Greek economy as magically? How much longer will you continue to trouble the place with these turbulences and contradictions, finally extinguishing the citizens? In this way, the government does not consider that the exit from the crisis is going through structural changes in public administration, cost-cutting with reforms, alleviating burdens for businesses and dealing with whatever interests, as well as the fight against corruption, but the budget is once again based on tax raid, unbearable measures for the Greek people and your growth forecasts in 2017 with a rapid recovery of private investment and a drastic reversal of external export balance are not ultimately based on any realistic assumption, it is fantasy. For us, ladies and gentlemen, the redistribution of tax burdens can be done with more systematic political intervention, an effective reduction in tax evasion, State spending, a widening of the tax base, the election of tax expenditure and a more fundamental reform of the tax system to the fairer. In the budget, which we are discussing and are called upon to vote today on the grant of hospitals, which are being narrowed, it remains the same last year, while the infamous recruitment of nurses is not mentioned anywhere, leading to the intensive health of the public. Local government is suffering a significant downturn in credit and is now faced with a number of commitments, putting serious questions of its sustainability and inevitable bankruptcy before the gates. For example, the appropriations for my Law, for the Achaea Prefecture, have been budgeted for 2017 under code 9010 to 1.15 million for regional services expenditure of 3.7 million for 2016. I mean, it's under half. The conclusions can be drawn by all of us. This is an orderly economic suffocation of local government, while you are struggling with decisions by the central state, with constant recruitment of party officials at all levels of administration. In fact, what one of my fellow citizens told me yesterday is true. I mean, you're feeding your army against civilians. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government overshoots demilitarization, which has neither the political will nor the plan to implement. Gentlemen of the government, I ask you: You are budgeting in 2017 revenues of 188 million from the Treasury which it has chartered. Will the Minister of Finance correct this code? Will the budget be reformed before it even starts to be implemented? Because that revenue still does not exist in the budget. Even your prediction of 300 million from the Greek is, as it turns out, precarious. In a phrase: the 2017 budget does nothing but redistribute poverty. The footprint of this budget by SYRIZA - ANEL, ladies and gentlemen, which is the suffocating financial framework within which the country moves and moves next year, we will vote against it, because we consider it to be harmful to the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u96	Thank you Mr Papatheodorou, Member of the Democratic Alliance. Last speaker from this circle, before the Minister, Ms. Konordos, is Mr. Christos Katsotis, Member of the Communist Party of Greece. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. These days will speak from this Step about two hundred MPs and will see, of course, many who watch crocodile tears about the suffering of the people. However, two strategies will be opposed. One is based on the MPs of the SYRIZA-ANEL coalition parties, as well as on all other parties, and the other, of course, on the members of the JRC. No, they're not identical, they have differences. However, they support this development path that serves the few and is at the expense of the many. They're competing who's gonna serve him better. They highlight the need for reforms, implementation of commitments, memorandums and all measures to adapt to the decisions of the European Union. In the best practices that are not others, despite those that enhance the profitability of the monopolistic groups for the country's bonding to imperialist associations, participation in imperialist designs and especially in the wider region. You are on the same side, in the same center of capital, the European Union, NATO, the imperialist organisations. And Mr Balaura - he's gone - you may not be in the same crossroads as the Nazis, the Golden Dawn criminals. These parties highlight entrepreneurship, private initiative, profitability, as the conditions that will increase employment, improve people's lives. The working class, our people, has experienced, since growth was running at a rate of 7%. These parties consider the memorandums needed, the measures that level the lives of workers and other people's populations, which at lower levels reduce the price of labour force as an essential condition for capitalists to put in place unstoppable overcrowded funds to ensure an increased average profit rate. They prioritise the reduction of capital taxation, the reduction of insurance contributions and their exemption, the further reinforcement of hot money from the state budget to make investments. The same strategy supports imperialist planning and wars that spread death, refugee and migration for oil road control, gas from monopolistic groups. The same strategy, Mr Muzala, entangles thousands of refugees and forms conditions of hell for them and for the inhabitants of the islands. The government's responsibilities are heavy. With the polluters, they hide the parties of capital, their various reserves, this common strategy. They have differences, but they do not change the position of the majority of the people and particularly of the working class. Really, where do they disagree with the budget of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government that we are debating today? Does it raise a party, other than the JRC, to cover the losses of workers, pensioners in the period of crisis? The reintroduction of public collective agreements, the stable and full-time employment of workers by abolishing fixed-term contracts, a few days and hours? Is it against the rest of the parties in closing the second assessment with the measures concerning the introduction of collective redundancies, the overpowering of operational contracts against the branches, the overturning of minimum trade liberties, the major obstacles to the development of the races, the strikes, so as to stabilise the achievements of capital? Are you opposed to debt settlement with painful measures to fund capital from the bloody surpluses of the working class and people? The budget we are debating provides for a reduction in public wages by 31.8% compared with 2016. Losses in employees' wages have exceeded 50% throughout this period. Only 40% of the country's workers are employed under collective agreements. The situation in the workplace is characterised as a working jungle. 62%, with your data, of the new recruitments in the seven months of 2016 concerned flexible employment contracts. The JRC has brought to Parliament the proposal for a law, which has tabled 514 workers' organizations that restored collective agreements, abolishes anti-government laws, covers losses. The government didn't bring her to discuss. The other parties did not take a position. Apparently, because they disagree with its content. Who, in addition to the JRC, really raises the question of raising pensions? You're accomplices to social security crime. You contributed to the reduction of up to 50%. You are setting zero deficit clauses, even for main pensions. In the period from 2010 to 2019, social security cuts will exceed EUR 50 billion and you have all supported them. The JRC has tabled a proposal for a pension law, but the government, like the other parties, rejected it. All the proposals of the law that we brought as a JRC - and brought together for all aspects of the life of the workers, the unemployed, the pensioners, the self-employed, the farmers, the farmers, the students and the students - stood across all the parties and rejected them. Gentlemen, you rejected these proposals, which could alleviate those who are struggling to get through. One will wonder, 'What, the other parties do not want to face problems, to meet the needs of the people?' They neither want nor can. The strategy they serve does not allow it. It is in contrast to the needs of the capital that you serve. The government puts forward the idea of fair growth. Well, the world is no longer being misinterpreted. It has a live example of tourism, which also in the days of SYRIZA government goes from record to record in arrivals of tourists, revenues and profits. On the other hand, we have a record of reducing workers, a record of stepping up work, reducing wages, flexible working relationships, abolishing insurance rights, as well as the only recent record of undeclared work, avoidance and tax avoidance. That's the choice of capital, and that's what you're serving. Any recovery will not make up for the enormous losses that the people have in the years of the crisis, nor will it halt the path of worsening people's lives. This is reflected in the budget that we are debating, which is another tool for redistributing incomes to workers in support of capital by increasing taxation, reducing wages and pensions, cuts in health, education, welfare, the continuation of reforms, namely, overthrowing of the rights that have been left to workers and other peoples. The other strategy is projected by the JRC MPs, by the tireless work of the JRC members and staff in every workplace of work and education, in every neighbourhood. We say that as long as business groups in the economy do, as long as they do, and are in the neck of the people, the situation will deteriorate. We stress the need to reconcile the working class with the JRC in the struggle to make the factories, businesses, the means of production, to exploit all the productive potential of the country so that with its own power and with a tool for the central planning to meet its real needs. I conclude, Mr President, by saying this: The working class, which lives in unemployment, poverty and impoverishment, the self-employed, who are destroyed by competition, poor farms, who are perpetrated by the implementation of the CAP, the European Union, has a chance to choose. He is in the process of reconstructing the working people's movement, in a line of struggle against the capitalist road, against monopolies, in collapsing with the JRC and his proposal for labour power. In this form of organization of the economy, with the working class in power, only then will the great deadlocks of the barbaric system be solved. We welcome all the trade unions, the pioneer workers, who are fighting for the success of tomorrow's twenty-fourth strike and all the people's organisations involved in the strike gatherings and join forces. Law will be judged on the streets. Anyone who is missing from him will fail him to become tomorrow's station for racing escalation. On the bottom, the more the struggle to cover the losses and to claim the real needs of the working people's family, the more the alliance with the other folk, the less power of capital will be weakened and the conditions will be created for the conquest of labour power. We are voting 'no' on the budget. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, too, Mr Katsotis. Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to the Minister, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-four students and three educational attendants from the 2nd Messinis High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Dear students, attend the meeting on the state budget. The debate is taking place with the MPs. Now the Minister for Culture and Sport, Mrs Connordou, will speak. Madam Minister, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u99	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing a time of great challenges, ecologically, economicly and socially. As we all know, culture is not a decoration, but a necessity. Especially today, when Europe and the whole world are called upon to redefine their values and course, culture is now more than ever to play a decisive role. Culture can give shape to chaos, express what cannot be said and yet which, many times, is also the most important. It can release admirable forces overrun, especially for our place, which has shown samples of intrinsic, uplifting forces, forces at the difficult juncture that we live, self-respect and dignity, awareness of the value that this place has within its time-consuming course, but also the power of Ulysses' spirit to overcome the difficulties, invent, offer innovative solutions, emphasise the creativity and creativity of young people. Another very important gift of culture, today in particular, is to light up awareness among the citizens, so that they can face the manipulation fire that is currently being carried out worldwide by the interests, internationally, of all kinds. Another element that is also very important in this crossroads of our culture today is that memory needs to be fuelled, but it needs to be combined with tomorrow's perspective, not as a museum track or a ancestorry, sterile, connecting to the present, with creativity, with the uplift, the boldness of the future, so that we can write the future without separations, without fear and be able to include the different, the vulnerable, the foreign in this place. All this composes the wealth of human biodiversity. To implement these values and ideas, the Ministry of Culture is called upon to meet these great challenges, with a stable budget following last year's data, with a very small increase in variable expenditure and a small increase in sport. Our goals, of course, are to continue to maintain and promote the ancient and Byzantine heritage and new monuments, but at the same time to place an equivalent emphasis on strengthening modern creators, to provide the opportunity with our monuments, our time-consuming monuments, to connect to education, to tourism, to the local communities, which will also be the best guardians of these monuments, the best arrogant products, which all over Greece stand out, the protection of the landscape and the environment, which is another very large chapter of this place, apart from its culture, so that they are a core of inspiration and not an obstacle to the inspiration and enhancement of modern spiritual and artistic creation, so that they can offer mild growth and sustainability. With this spirit, this year, starting from 2017, for the relationship between Greece - China and China - Greece, not only with cultural exchanges, but with the connection of culture, with industrial partnerships, with the economy, with the potential to develop further activities at the same time. This strategy, which is very great and of course will link many Ministries to cooperate and coordinate on this objective, will also be based on the valuable experience gained in the year of Greece - Russia, Russia - Greece, which we aim to continue and not end with the end of the year. There have already been contacts and dialogue so that it can continue in the coming years. Since we have no extra money, we are trying to make use of the Ministry's existing building infrastructure, so that we can offer - as far as buildings and institutions are concerned - the citizens, but also the artists, the vulnerable groups, the refugees, the artists and the artists, who do not have the opportunity to express themselves - and not just at the time of the performance or presentation - the opportunity to house themselves in the existing areas. This is something very important and we have already started working in this direction. We also look forward to working with other ministries to join forces for the maximum effect. We also consider it very important to incorporate the supervised entities into networks so as to link their powers to co-organisations, while making maximum use of the Community funds of the NRP. A very important part is the upgrading of study at the artistic schools. To change a page, it is very important to start from artistic education. The actions are also intended to be exploited in all the regions of Greece, in order to make use of existing structures and cooperation and exchanges with the centre, based on reciprocity. Another priority area is cultural diplomacy. There is already a great deal of activity in this area, but we want - and I stress this - to start a creative dialogue based on cultural parity, based on reciprocity with other countries, so that there can be cooperation with museums, with festivals, using seats, artistic, humanitarian and Hellenistic studies. I would like to share with you an image that I have about culture in this place, through my recent visit to China, that I saw the great picture. We're a place, a little kaiki, that feeling I had, a little boat in a great sea of provocation. But this boat carries a very important precious stone with a glow of time. Deeply we believe that our culture can contribute with the cultures of other countries to the co-determination of the world and to the redefinition of values in view of the major challenges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u100	Thank you very much to the Minister for Culture and Sport, Mr Conniordos. We're on our way to the list, with a little change, to make it easier for Mr. Focas. Mr Aristides Fokas will be speaking from the Centro Association and we will proceed with Mr Bargiotas and the other speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u101	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the logic of all of us, who do not feed it with left-hand illusions, says that we must wait the worst. A further budget of extreme austerity, deeply materialistic, will be voted on in the middle of Saturday, a new budget with new taxes, a despair budget. The cherries in the cake, of course, are your utopian forecasts for growth of 2.7% of GDP and a primary surplus of 3.25 billion euros. Obviously, you realise how the Greek society faces these great goals, a society that has declared a stop to payments and remains trapped in tolerance and economic impoverishment. But of course with you and the virtual reality in which you live all is possible. The speed at which you change faces, depending on your interlocutor or audience, is certain that it will once be taught in hypocritical schools. The worst thing, however, for the country, ladies and gentlemen, is that absolute government poverty is accompanied by the total absence of a credible alternative government proposal. They are so absorbed by the charm of the chair by the New Democracy MPs, who have reached the absolute nadir of political graphics, to make reception-delivery ceremonies to shadow ministries. This is called passion for authority, ladies and gentlemen. But the citizens are now exhausted by the irresponsibility of both sides of industry. They see their everyday lives getting worse day by day and looking for solutions, vision, program, political stability, consensus and not just a change of people in power management. They are seeking, if you like, the simple common sense that teaches, for example, how growth in this country will never come unless there is genuine support for small and medium-sized professionals, lowering tax rates, relaxing the restrictions on capital movements, a definitive settlement of non-performing loans if it does not fall on the market. Because with the new budget the operation in Greece is essentially persecuted. Because only as persecution is the burden of a company with 24% VAT, 27% insurance contributions, 29% tax and tax advance payments, we understand that a company is unsustainable. And then you question the patriotism of some people because they carry their businesses to the Balkan countries. And what do you want them to do? You want them hungry? Give the motives to turn, breathe, get the machine back on, otherwise - and I'm sorry to say it - there's no hope. Mr. Tsipras has failed miserably, he has corrupted hopes and expectations, insulting brutally fundamental principles and values of the Left, which he allegedly defends. Mr Mitsotakis, on the other hand, who wants to take his place, insists on the disastrous logic of self-restraint, refusing to read the polls correctly, showing that his party, against a dissolved SYRIZA, with the greatest possible collapsing of his voters, is unable to exceed 32%. Instead of both finally proposing the collective, national interest and accepting our proposal for a broad acceptance government with the greatest possible representation of political parties, which embrace common principles and values, they insist on the sterile mono-party logic, they remain committed to their sovereignty. Unfortunately, for them power is not a means, it is a purpose. And I want to stand up to a promise that the Prime Minister made at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. He had promised that the debts of the free professionals would be frozen. From 1-1-2017 we all know that professional contributions will be calculated on the basis of profits. At the moment 50% of the professions are out of the system. They cannot contribute one euro. If this does not become the freezing of debts promised by the Prime Minister, it will continue this 50% more than not to contribute to the fund and the only loser will be the fund. The Union of Centres is consistent in its principles and values. He's voting against the budget because he's doomed to fail. The Members of the co-legislator who will vote for this - I say that only - consider your responsibility to the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr. Aristides Fokas. Mr Constantine Barriotas has the floor from the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the second full budget tabled by this government. In the 2015 nightmare with revisions and policy changes, no one wants to remember it, as I understand it. I do not want to, however, but I do not think the government wants either. In any case, this is the second comprehensive budget. As Mrs Connordou said earlier, she is about the same as the previous one and his philosophy and his footprints and his logic. We are at the threshold of the closure of the rating, with regard to the juncture and remains a very important one - in my opinion - regulation, which is the acceptance of the SSM's short-term measures on debt, which has a significant impact. It's a positive news on a psychological level, especially, of course, too small for the next four, five years. Sometime around 2060 will offer a little relief in the budget. But to understand what we say about the debt, which I do not want to underestimate the value of the news in 1970-forty-five years back - the speech had not even gone to kindergarten. Since then, the junta has been in Cyprus, there have been two oil crises and, if I don't mind, there have been many things, most important of which have been that we have changed up to forty-five years. So, to keep our temper, it would be nice to put things on the right basis. It is a small crack in the wall of refusal to negotiate a debt that is hailed, but I think there are much more important things to do and to see from the assessment that comes in the next few days than to celebrate and quarrel about a debt that remains extremely important. What has been different since 2016 is the increased primary surplus. It has a little more than three times the primary surplus of 2016 in absolute numbers. From EUR 1,1 billion for 2016 to around EUR 3,5 billion for 2017. It is EUR 2.4 billion for its tax measures. Symptoms rather, but the sum comes out exactly. Maybe it's just an accident. And there is a awareness that in 2018, 2019, 2020 and possibly by the end of the 2020, surpluses will be 3.5% in absolute figures today and with growth we are counting around EUR 6.5 billion to EUR 7 billion for years. This is the main burden on the budget. So the 2017 budget starts with a fundamental difficulty that is objective. I'm not saying anyone wanted her, but she's there. It is the primary surplus and the awareness of 2018 and 2019. I must note that this famous government negotiation continues to produce pearls, against the will and declarations of the government for low surpluses, etc. Along with the celebrations that they saw last days about the debt in 2060, it introduces more or less the logic of the heavens: behove today and sometimes in the future your offspring will be rewarded. I do not think that is an economic policy. To balance, then, this primary problem that the government has done two things. The first is a fundamental assumption in the budget. It's reports growth of 2.7%. We haven't seen such growth since 2008 or 2007. I don't remember when New Democracy completely derailed the economy, so we could slowly get into the memorials, but it was there somewhere. A decade ago, the country has not seen a growth of this trend and one wonders what it is that within a year it will eject growth to 2.7%. Essentially a 3% of the negative remission of 2 that closes in 2016. I wish. Exports will take place, says the explanatory statement. I'll put it aside with a very big question, because it's a complicated situation. Already the data from the draft and the estimates for 2016 are changed every three months. At some point we will see why exports may not escalate, even though competitiveness has increased. Most of all, however, the budget says, there will be an increase in private spending of 1.8%. Households who will pay most of the 2.5 additional billion this year, who have paid so much more last year, will increase consumption, start buying cars, pants, go out for fun. Same households. They'll get them out of the mattresses, said one of SYRIZA's colleagues. Why didn't they make it last year and they're gonna make it this year? If they have them in the mattresses, what's it gonna do to get them out today? Do we have any new measures? Any new police that can control the mattresses? Because motives to get them out of the mattresses, I didn't see. As I have not seen how private investment in Greece will increase by 10%. Again, the same businessmen, households, who are literally equal to taxation, as they themselves say and as we all see in our daily lives, will increase investment. Anywhere? How? It is a question that is also not answered. What does the Greek Financial Council say in its polite diplomatic language in the relevant report? It says that the rise of 2.7% of gross national product is assessed as quite optimistic. This is a diplomatic wording. I will not say what Moody's and the international agencies say, because they, as we know, are representatives of the devil and we do not take them into account. It's by definition against the patronage. So what does the Greek Financial Council say? It says that political stability is one factor in achieving growth in the region, which means - not to say anything else - that the Prime Minister must not threaten his parliamentary group with elections every three or just when he is weighed up. That will say one of the factors needed to develop political stability. What else does he say? The most important is the gradual removal of the restrictions on capital control. That's not why I heard anything. No prediction of becoming something spectacular in 2017. It's not going to happen. It can't be done. Because the return of deposits to levels before 2015 is a prerequisite and the other is the zeroing of ELA, which in 2015 the government launched it from 5 billion to 95 billion and is now trying to lower it. What else did the government do, apart from the fundamental assumption of 2.7%? It's got a second point. Taxes, taxes, taxes: EUR 2.5 billion new taxes plus an increase in insurance contributions. I can only note that a left-wing government would expect, even in this budgetary suffocation, to try to change the balance, at least in favour of direct taxes, which are far more equitable. It's launching at 1.30 the reason. He has been the worst person ever seen in the country for the past twenty years. With this recipe, the budget can be very difficult. Public expenditure has not just been touched, not just does it seem that there will be a reduction in a nominal amount of 78 million. In fact, the cost will be much higher, because last year with his own bill, he said that from 5 billion escaping at 5.6 billion. If state spending, public expenditure, public expenditure, government expenditure, other than wages, were to be avoided last year by 10%, something like that will obviously be done this year. I am going to take advantage of the President's tolerance to speak for just a minute about health, because it is very important in my view. The situation is suffocating and we all know it. In health budgets, not only does nothing increase, but the grant to the EEA is reduced by 200 million. There is a fine paragraph where one deserves to read it. It's an exercise of beautiful Greeks indeed. She's doing the white one. It's gonna happen, he says, EOPYY, it'll improve, it'll, it'll, etc. We cut him 200 million, but he will have exactly the same performance last year, he will have a surplus, he will have no damage, and so on, he says in the following paragraph - to make the reservations from the funds. Thank you so much! In the past five years, the problem has been that the funds are receiving health and do not pay it, because they cannot pay pensions. Why would it change this year? Probably what will change this year is that the expenditure on medicines will be limited in the well-known way “he hurts hand, he cuts head.” And what began to be dispersed and I would really like to hear it disproved, is that there would be control and restriction of the access of the insured to private doctors, which means that the old good IKA is resurrected, where in order to be able as an insured IKA or OGA to see a doctor, you should beg to the IKA doctors for a seal or a prescription. Because this means to just Greek and to Greek reality, this thing that is spreading and I read in the press. And I really want to hear she's disgusting. ‘As for hospitals and the CEDEFOP, the budgets are stable’. Liar! The budgets are much worse for the simple reason that everyone knows, we all know those who are here in Jerusalem, that the 2016 budgets were not implemented. It's over in October. We all know that all major hospitals have to say it simply medicines and materials to work in November and December against charges that will become when the 2017 codes are opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u104	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u105	That's right, Mr. Papadopoulos, and you know it well. You know that very well, and I can say names.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u106	Please complete your thoughts, Mr. Barriotta.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u107	I shall conclude, Mr President. This is how the actual budgets for 2017 are smaller. The costs that have been ejected and blew everything in the air are the innovative drugs that entered from the back door into hospital budgets and which are not going to be checked because nothing has happened. In fact, apart from words and trouble and patches, we haven't seen anything else. If there really is, Mr. Papadopoulos - and there are, and you know well that there is a hospital that has an organogram 110% filling in nursing staff...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u108	Mr Barriott, please close your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u109	If there are problems like this, and the nurses are knitting, change, reform the system. You are the people who have stood before, as trade unionists, to any change in the health system over the years. Here's Rhodes, behold, and fuck. If there are nurses sitting or commenting units, it is time to change them. But at this level, we haven't seen anything. Only the suspension of psychiatric reform and its referral to the bells. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr. Barriotta. Of course, no one can say anything about Mr. Papadopoulos. As you know, Mr Barriotta, they've been in the games for many years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u111	The front line always. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u112	Mr. George Lazarides has the floor from the Independent Greeks for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President. It is the second budget tabled by this government. Two years it completes trying to raise and raise the country's feet from the disaster brought by previous governments. Because the disaster has a name. The disaster didn't suddenly come out of nowhere. It was destroyed by the two parties, PASOK and New Democracy, regardless of whether they now bet on the shallow memory of the Greeks, wanting to criticize this government and most often miserable. Criticism is acceptable, and most of all, it actually contributes positively, when it is positive, when confrontation and opposition are fertile. They are often invoked in 2014. I will read to you here official details of ELSTAT for 2014 where it says "thousand businesses every year are led to bankruptcy". And these are ELSTAT's words. In 2014 was the worst year of the decade, as cannons reached a value of 1.8 billion. Indeed, he also quotes some other data here, makes comparisons with 2012 and 2013 and says "The passive one of the 350 million euros in 2012 reached 699.7 million in 2013 and - hang on - 1.8 billion. In 2014. Therefore, what they hear about 2014, that something went to start moving, are stories of Halima. The government over this period has tried. He brought new laws, such as, for example, development a few months ago. We voted for him in 2016. The development law is in the right direction. And that is something that all the representatives of the actors who had come up with have confirmed, despite the negative criticism of the opposition parties. The old investment law had made a move towards investment, towards electricity production and some other investments, resulting in 4% of applications absorbing 50% of the funds, which were for investment, so 96% of applications could be met from the rest of the 50%. On the contrary, the new development law - the one we voted on in the summer of 2016 - is directed at medium-sized, small and medium-sized enterprises. On the other hand, about a month ago we voted for the new law on the simplification of the establishment of businesses. Unlike the old system - and everyone remembers - which was complex, dazzling, where the businessman had to deal with pluralism, he had to deal with the controls before he opened the business, etc., the new law with which businessmen - and indeed the BSE also tabled his opinion - were all positive and said that it really facilitated and pushed in the right direction. I will now tell you about the industry, so that you can see the policy of these parties. The industry in the 1980s was 35% of the country's GDP. In 2014 it had fallen to 12.5%. From 35% it fell to 12.5%, while the services, respectively, have been up to 84% since the 1980s. Then, if you remember, when the crisis began, they were swinging the finger and saying about the Greeks that we are not producing anything, we are counterproductive, that we are all importing it. But who's responsible for this? The Greek citizen is responsible for this? But they were responsible. They did nothing in the direction of the productive sector, to stimulate production, industry and agriculture. We shall now say about agriculture what they have done. With this report that I have now made on services, I do not mean that it is wrong to increase the services sector. Sure. At the same time, however, you must also take care of production. It doesn't mean you're plunging one field and upping another. No, on the contrary, you also support the production sector and let the service sector develop. This is in the right direction, because it results in GDP rising. Agriculture from 22%, 23% in the 1980s, came down to 3%. In other words, there is no area for which to invoke a positive element. I will give you an example: In the 1980s in the legumes, in the lentils, we had a production of 12,500 tonnes and in 2014 we dropped to 2,500 tonnes. In the sesame, we had a production of 6,500 tonnes and we fell to 30 tonnes. That was their policy. It was a great policy! They unleashed agriculture. What I'm telling you is ELSTAT's elements and I'm trying to run them very quickly, because time is limited. A colleague earlier commented on the last result for the short term. He made a comment on the 3.5% surplus. Indeed, the 35% surplus is high and we should try to lower it. However, I would like to remind you that the PASOK - New Democracy or New Democracy - PASOK - if you will - had agreed to a surplus of 4.5%. In fact, it had agreed on 2015, 3%, for 2016, 4.2%, for 2017, 4.5% and for 2018, 4.5%. So now what the New Democracy is doing is totally hypocritical to the 3.5% agreed by this government. Because, contrary to these surpluses that I read to you, instead of the 3% agreed by the previous government, the current government in 2015 agreed to a deficit of 0.25% on GDP rather than a 3% surplus agreed by the former. For 2016 from the 4.2% agreed by the previous government, she agreed to 0.5%. For 2017 from 4.5% agreed the previous one, it agreed 1.5%. And for 2018, from 4.5% agreed once again by the former government, it agreed to 3.5%. In any case, there is an attempt to get down. Therefore, it is hypocritical to move the finger and talk about high primary surpluses. Of course, we must try to get them down even further. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm about to finish, Mr. President. A bit of your tolerance. I had more to say, but I'll speed it up. The new budget is a development budget, but it also gives a great deal of social benefits, because, indeed, society needs support. It provides for, for example, aid of 100 million for red loans. It provides for an increase in health and education. I will be able to read to you the full extension of the social solidarity income with credits amounting to EUR 760 million: "The CRL is predicted to cover over two hundred and fifty thousand households living in poverty...". You see that this government is looking after and trying for the citizens. It does not leave them in their luck or lets them deal with only the Church, in which we all have to say a great thank you for the help it offers to our fellow citizens, our fellow humans, the sufferers. I continue: '... to strengthen the health and care sectors, education and social protection by providing for an additional EUR 300 million available to meet needs that go beyond existing appropriations. The contribution of EUR 100 million to the non-performing loans arrangements of off-shore households with predefined income and assets criteria. Fifty-eight thousand people and families whose annual income moves to the limits of decent living will be able to protect their first residence as long as its objective value does not exceed EUR 170 000.’ This is where I'll have to finish. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr. Lazarides. Mr Jason Fotillas, Independent MEP, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a draft budget which is unlikely to be implemented. I'm not saying it. It is said by the Bureau of the Parliament and by the Greek Finance Council, which you cannot tell them anti-government. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Jasson Fotillas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Of course the fourth Memorandum is coming. A few days ago, when I was asked by a well-known journalist if SYRIZA could bring a fourth memorial, I replied to him that not only can he bring it, but will bring it with certainty. He'll just call it something else, like the nuns in the middle ages baptizing the fish. Something like that. Unfortunately, I was fully confirmed. The government celebrates its triumph bringing growth. Soon there will be that taboo word. Like the word reform, which in the mind of the average Greek citizen means painful measures, in a short time with this government and the word development will become the same meaning, growth will mean painful measures. But let us see briefly what the goals the government had set and what it finally achieved. The objective of the first, nominal, debt reduction. Objective 2, reduction of surpluses for 2018 from 3.5% to 2%. Objective 3, no additional measures for the coming years. What did he do from the above? No nominal debt reduction. What we should still have to do. Staying surpluses at 3.5% for 2018 and surpluses of 3.5% at best until 2012 and at worst until 2030. You have, in fact, committed the next government and the country to a mechanism for implementing the high surpluses, a permanent cost cut, with additional measures in insurance and tax reduction, in order to achieve these visible primary surpluses. So what else is that, rather than a fourth memorial, burdensome terms, and without money, as you and Mr Varoufakis have done before? You're the only ones who can bring measures without money, not once, but twice. In addition, any debt reduction will begin in 2040 and will be completed in 2060. So stop sharing hay in the world on the allegedly direct debt reduction, because none of this applies. The only thing that's true is that heavy conditions are coming and in any case you're not getting away with anything. The evaluation that Mr Tsipras confirmed would be closed on 5 December is referred to January together with the full package of agreement with the IMF. Doctor at the lie has become the prime Prime Minister. But what will he do now? Will she accept everything, supposedly negotiating hard again for so many hours or choosing to escape through the elections? I wish for the country to choose the second. I am going back to the 2017 budget. What, ladies and gentlemen, are the achievements of the two years of SYRIZA - ANEL? Two years of recession. Could it be better with a government of Tsipras - Kammenos? No, of course not. Our people are saying it clearly: 'You cannot make carrots and carrots'. With ministers like Mr. Spirtzis and Mr. Skourletis, it is not possible to see the country's economy on a white day. In two years the Greek economy lost tens of millions of euros, the consequence of the fatal half-year of 2015 with the negotiation of Tsipras - Varoufakis. This account is still expensive for the citizens, and in particular for the weakest populaces, with a third unjustified memorandum, with the transfer of public property for a hundred years to creditors, with capital controls in banks, with charges totalling EUR 6 billion for the people and EUR 2,7 for 2017, with increases in VAT and new taxes on wine, beer, coffee, gasoline, telephone and simultaneous pension cuts for gentlemen and subsidiary and the EASA. Do you remember what the unrealized, unrealized Mr. Katrugalos said about pensions? "With only increases will there be," he told us and he wasn't ashamed. From promises of proud old age to exterminating old age. For the first time, flexible employment relationships have exceeded permanent and stable employment. We have also seen this with the first time government on the left that flexible forms of work go beyond permanent ones. The ERGAN system captures them. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Jasson Fotillas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And unemployment and in 2016 will be over 23%. Perhaps the only prospect with this mixture of policy you are following would be to have a policy for attracting a sufficient number of investments. How can they be, though, when the ministers bet you or whatever they do, do what they can so that the announced privatisations, such as this CRS, do not succeed? Only to maintain the client state show special care. The postmasters and recruits outside the AACC at the SYRIZA - ANEL government exceeded twenty - seven thousand, while the secretaries at the Ministries became fifty - one of forty - nine who were in Samara - Venizelos. There's money for recruiting your own kids. Ladies and gentlemen, things are clear. Faced with such coexistence, there can be no mediator solutions. There can be no tolerance to those who are destroying institutions and economy, even to those who are endangering our national issues, even making communications with the Golden Elephants in Kastelorizo. It is a matter of national survival that elections should be held so that the new government, broadly accepted, can quickly get the country out of the crisis. Obviously, I cannot vote for this budget, which hides the fourth memorandum within it. Mr. Tsipras - and I'm closing up with it - still thinks he's left, but he remembers only at funerals. Hasta la mnimonia, Mr. Tsipras, siempre! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u116	Thank you. We are going with Mrs. Georgia Genias, MP of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u117	After the agony we felt as to whether or not Mr. Fotilis would vote for the budget, Mr. President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, despite the persistent destruction of the Anti-Population, the "pads" and its mandates, the Greek economy, as confirmed not only by ELSTAT, but also by the recent Eurogroup and the success that the Greek Government has achieved, is in a recovery track. With the first nine months of 2016 showing a positive sign in relation to the corresponding previous year, this prospect is being created to accelerate in the coming years. We can now say that the primary surplus target for 2016 has already been achieved. The budget goes beyond the objective and these developments are the result of the stability and confidence recovered through the systematic effort being made. From the outset we have set our priority to help the most vulnerable. This was already launched by the first left government with L.4320/2015, which introduced a series of immediate measures to deal with the humanitarian crisis. Actions included subsidies for feeding, rent subsidies, free reconnection and electricity supply. The current needs covered by the Humanitarian Crisis Management Programme since 2017 are integrated and will be covered by the implementation of the Social Solidarity Income. The government's economic strategy therefore remains stable and revolves around two axes, completion as soon as possible and successfully as possible of the fiscal adjustment programme, in order to enable Greece to exit from it and, secondly, to look after and strengthen citizens' fundamental social and economic rights. These, ladies and gentlemen, are clearly reflected in the main objectives of the 2017 budget policy. On the basis of its provisions, the main aim is: firstly, to maintain the fiscal equilibrium in order to complete the recovery of the country's credibility and to allow it to emerge from the fiscal adjustment programme as quickly as possible, fair sharing of adjustment costs and a socially just distribution of the benefit of the already under way recovery. It follows, therefore, that the government's fundamental priority remains to strengthen and shield social protection and stimulate public investment. On this I would like to stand by, because for us it is important to safeguard the sensitive economic and social groups, to reward for their patience for the citizens who have suffered great sacrifices and have lifted the burden of irresponsible policy for decades both PASOK and the New Democracy, which is allegedly being cut off from coming to power and quickly. To do what, colleagues? One of the same and even worse, since it will demonstrate all its hard and irreversible neoliberal face that will completely wipe out the small and medium-sized order, for the benefit - once again - of capital. That is why the 2017 budget also incorporates a number of critical interventions: the full extension of social solidarity income with appropriations amounting to EUR 760 million. The CRL is intended to cover over two hundred and fifty thousand households living in poverty. Strengthen health and care, education and social protection by providing additional EUR 300 million for needs that go beyond existing appropriations. The contribution of EUR 100 million to the non-performing loans arrangements of off-shore households with predefined income and assets criteria. The increase in the national part of the public investment programme by EUR 250 million in order to fully compensate for the planned reduction in the co-financed part. Ladies and gentlemen, these are measures that promote social justice and strengthen development, they are development infrastructure measures. Redistribution does not mean a policy of deficits or a policy of borrowing. It means fiscal policy conducted in terms of social justice and development. The view that tax relief can be promoted by allowing the social state to collapse and the poor without any protection is not socially acceptable or economically effective. Redistribution means reversal of the trend from the unaltered expansion of inequalities in their systematic reduction, from the deregulation of labour relations and the abolition of labour rights to their recovery and restructuring, from the constant limitation of the social state in its reconstruction. It is a request not only of our own, but it is a demand with global and pan-European scope and power. This request must not be left to the extreme right-wing and fascist forces to dress up their anti-social and anti-democratic plans with it, but to bring it to the heart of public debate and policy and above all to implement it. That is why I support the budget and the government, because only the Left can heal the wounds and social injuries, put a definitive tombstone on the bankrupt model of the past that led us to the crisis and lay the healthy foundations for the memorial Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Gennay. That's how it closes a circle of speakers. The Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr George Stathakis, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, this year we have the possibility of judging things not on the basis of a debate at the beginning of a route, for example last year. This year we have the opportunity to have this debate on the basis of results, based on the data we have had since 2016. That is why I wonder whether a large part of the Anti-Population is criticised as being a year ago, not having data to judge three things, that is, if the government has an economic policy, whether the way it implements the agreement and the successive agreements, which it has achieved since, are leading somewhere and, thirdly, if the Greek economy is actually applying this economic policy, which I will explain immediately afterwards, is at the forefront of turning its course towards a development process. Let me remind you a year ago what the government's main economic policy was. It had four elements: first, the existence and necessity of fiscal stability. This was the aim of the budget last year, that is what we are able to judge on the basis of the results of 2015 and 2016 and to assess the budgetary strategy for next year. Second element. Financial stability, the need to stabilise the banking system, which we said there is a number of steps last year, such as the recapitalisation of banks, the integration into the European banking system from 1-1-2016, the need to manage red loans by completing the institutional framework for red loans and, of course, the prospect of an agreement on debt and the stabilisation of the economy, which will lead to quantitative relaxation. We also have results in this area. Third element. The government would go ahead with the structural changes needed by the economy, which will stimulate entrepreneurship, facilitate the functioning of important sectors of the economy and which are a key point in achieving recovery. In this area we have results. We have a large number of structural changes that have taken place over time, which create a much better framework for recovery. The fourth element, for which we have committed ourselves, was social policy, that under the constraints of fiscal stabilisation, under the limitations laid down in a suffocating context, the government's position is to maximise social policy and care for the weaker groups. We have results, we have an account in this area. This report is included in the budget policy and next year in support of income and so on. the 700 million, which so many Members have mentioned. Under these four conditions, we considered it realistic for the Greek economy to return to positive growth. I would remind you that when in the first half of 2016 we said that we would have a positive mark in the economy, we heard what we hear today, "how the economy will turn away the investments, destroy the economy, dismantle the universe." Now, however, the evidence has to be specific. The third quarter of 2016 or we have or do not have plus 1.5% positive growth compared with last year. We have to decide. Do we or do we not? If we have, we have to start talking on this basis. Secondly, I hear we're firing out investments. Do we have an investment increase or do we not? If we do not have, then what has come out, that investments in fixed capital goods are at plus 12.6%, it should be completely misleading. So do we have a flow and an increase in investment as a result of stabilisation of the economy, measures of all these things or not? Third, I hear about exports. Do we or do we not have an increase in exports? It's very specific. It is a positive sign and a strong positive one, it is 10.2%. So, in fact, all the indicators show that, from the result of judging, there is a strong impact on the economy, especially in the second half of the year, and this is therefore a solid basis to discuss all this criticism, how will 2.7% of the budget come from Mr Juliarakis or from the Commission. Everyone agrees about 2.7%, except for the opposition. It's impossible, unrealized, etc. A lot of other things were unresolved. I repeat that it was unrealistic to bring a recession very marginal last year, it was unrealistic to implement the budget as planned and better, it was unrealistic to have a positive figure in the second half of 2016 and so on. So the idea of destruction is that I call on the opposition to base it on some facts. To say, it's bad for SYRIZA - ANEL, incapable, useless or I don't know what else, but it's also based on some facts, because we're all being judged. Fourthly and lastly. There are now a number of key points in this strategy. Yesterday's decision is, I think, another key point. I hear a lot of criticism. I heard our debt was over in 2060. I don't know who found out about this. I hear that the measures taken yesterday, which are short-term, concern the debt after 2040 and various other things, information I personally ignore and I would very much like to discuss them with those who calculate SYRIZA - ANEL costs that are 100 billion. Somehow, I guess, in the 2015 and 2016 GDP, these 100 billion, which is 86 billion, the new phase we have put into the economy. In fact, we are all learning and know that 50 billion is refinancing the old debt that was in existence by 2020 and 25 billion did not need it, because of this money it only took 5 billion banks. So under these given conditions - I repeat, I hear various geniuses - it would be good for someone to enlighten us about what the provision of Greek debt is, that is to show us numbers of when it starts and when it ends, what the consequences of these measures have. So I come back to the main argument. There is an inability to recognise a key point that leads the economy together with the positive sign of 2017, but it is absolutely crucial, the adoption of short-term debt measures, which are very important, and beyond the immediate effect it has, gives a strong signal that the economy now has a medium-term stability horizon, that it can join the last part that remains to stabilise the banking system that is to be integrated into the quantitative relaxation of the European Central Bank, which marks and demarcates the complete normalisation of the Greek economy towards the international investment public. Under these conditions, therefore, the present government and the budget which it represents continued a strategy which, I repeat, had four key elements. They remain all four active and very important and are reflected in the budget. It is the fiscal stability, which must be maintained just as it is expressed up to 2018, is the further stabilisation of the financial sector and the management of its problems, so that it can refinance the Greek economy and its recovery, are the structural changes that we will continue and are, of course, also the strong social policy, which is the mark of the present and present government. This basic strategy is being followed and the budget reflects it in the best possible way, proclaiming in 2017 as a year in which there is genuinely potential and preconditions for it to be a year of great turn of the economy and a key part and a step for the definitive exit from the crisis. Let me say two things about our energy data and our policy. There are four main points in our energy policy. Firstly, the design that we need to have for 2020 in terms of the national framework in which the energy sector is moving on the basis of European developments, so we will establish a National Energy Council together with other developments that exist in this area. Secondly, the transition to a new electricity model. This involves changes in the electricity markets in which we are going, as well as a much wider system of transmission networks relating to our islands Greece, Crete and other areas and upgrading our networks so that they can be linked to digital technology. The third element is the area of spatial planning. I would remind you that that is where we are being called upon to deal with three fundamental problems. The undetermined definition of land-based property rights - something which is called on by the land register to resolve by 2020 - the lack of a spatial planning - we bring next week the new planning bill - and ambiguities in land use, where we believe that strengthening the regional level as a level of planning gives us this element. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I will need two more minutes, Mr President, thank you. The fourth and final step concerns the development of the country in a regional energy hub of strategic importance where we continue the whole debate on the TPA, Alexandroupolis, the pipeline going north, Bulgaria - Romania, and dozens of other initiatives that exist in this area. I am closing down with a note on the DESCA because it was a point of confrontation with New Democracy and I would like to insist a little on it. Let me remind you that it is a privatisation that started in 2013. Other competitors left, a candidate stayed, 66% of the shares in SOCAR were guaranteed, and that's where problems began long before SYRIZA arrived. I repeat, long before SYRIZA arrives. This privatisation is not approved by the Commission because it is contrary to the rule that the gas producer cannot control the distribution network. So the main problem of privatisation was the contradiction between producers and distributors in the European Union, which separates these markets. This brought back a debate for two years. Because SOCAR had to reduce its share, be a minority, and at the same time follow the new directives and the new framework, even minority, for the role it can play in the management of the company. That is what European rules say. Third matter. When New Democracy and the PASOK then gave DESFA an unprecedented increase in the tariffs of 68%, they violated the regulation by means of a directive 73/2009, in order not to even incorporate - there was a directive since then - the way in which, from this point on - at some point in the future, prices on the monopolistic networks will be determined. This incorporation by this Government is about incorporating the European directive, which is a system which says how the invoice is specified in the future. We had to make it as a country, because it creates two positive ones. Firstly, we have a specific illustration of how the cost, profit and invoicing for the future are calculated and, secondly, it creates security for the investor. This was incorporated by the present government with the summer regulation. I call on the New Democracy to tell us why privatisation did not go ahead. In fact, I say this sincerely, without any opposition, taking all this data into account, and I am surprised, I repeat. The current government and the last cycle of negotiations have exhausted all the possibilities available for the past years - we could have a small intervention - and we have made the best possible offer to find a solution and to create a better framework. There was no possibility. As you know, in all these given terms, the biggest problems have arisen independently and arisen decisively from the European regulatory framework, so I call on the New Democracy to tell us: to stop implementing the European regulatory framework so that privatisation can move forward or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr George Stathakis, Minister for the Environment and Energy. We continue with the list of five speakers, as we have said. The first is Mrs Catherine Papakostas - Ironopoulou, Parliament of the New Democracy or of Bulgaria, I do not know what she wants us to call it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u121	Congressman, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u122	Congressman, very nice.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u123	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, because otherwise it is a distinction between women's colleagues. MEP is the MEP of independent sheets in the Greek Parliament. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say to the previous Minister, Mr Stathakis, the following: Mr Stathakis, you are asking the Qualified Opposition for decisions to be taken by you? You're asking our opinion? If you want our opinion, you should have heard it a lot earlier that after two years of governance - and so we are in the second budget of your own SYRIZA - we should not have all of the things that you have said, all Parliament's wings, that is to say, a budget which we cannot say in any way, without anyone wanting to blame you - I do not want to have an opposition against you - but, objectively, that from everywhere is judged, even from you, that it would not be the one that would be expected to be after everything you have said or done. On the contrary, I think it is a budget below the circumstances, and so you should answer the problems, unless you want to grant your position to the New Democracy, which is prepared to assume its responsibilities in the governance of the country. If this had previously been a confession, that we have lifted our hands high and that we are expecting the Civic Opposition on all subjects and on all issues to give us answers, but we are acting with a communication of very poor quality, which seriously harms the economy of the Kastelorizo type, Mr Stathakis, this communication tactic of the Kastelorizo Government and the economy, so you must ask your partners and yourself because you do not go ahead with doing what the Greek people have assigned you, namely ruling and taking responsibility. This is the answer of the New Democracy. Now, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I have said, I will focus my attention and try to demonstrate in good faith, as all the Members of the Greek Parliament, regardless of the wings, irrespective of the political party, must - I think - what the budget for a very sensitive area means - you will allow me to focus there - the most sensitive, in my opinion, on the health sector. But before I enter ad hoc on health issues in which the budget gives me the opportunity to judge and see how I will deal with them by voting, I would like to tell you that the Parliament's Budget Office, which has undeniable authority, says about your budget, ladies and gentlemen of the government, about the budget that you brought to the majority Members and Members of all the parties, that in three critical and neurological sectors, firstly, in the welfare sector, secondly, in the health sector and, thirdly, in the education sector, we pay more taxpayers and we have - take note of it - the worst benefits. The first conclusion, therefore, must be that the ministers, the government, the government, the state, the bodies involved, the legal persons of public law, all - but the government's political will is the dominant and top - in how they improve the quality of the services provided, so that when we pay more, we have the best of the services and not the worst, as I stress again, it says, not Mrs Catherine Papacosta, but the Bureau of Parliament's Budget Office. That's the first. The second thing I have to say, ladies and gentlemen of the government - which you come here to indulge in any case optimism and develop the morality of your MPs - to its dear colleagues in particular - the others are aware of what is happening - what is codified for the Greek economy in your financial years of your own governance 2015 and 2016. Deposits - these are the criteria - in Greek banks have been reduced by EUR 40 billion. The proud negotiation - you described it as such, I do not want to question it, but see the account - cost us EUR 86 billion according to the Bank of Greece. To go to the Bank of Greece... Mr. Statakis, you're swinging my finger like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u124	Paper from Bank of Greece...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u125	So I would like you, Mr President, to come to the Bank of Greece tomorrow, and I would like you to draw up a public document with your signature, which you ask for explanations why it says so. You won't shake my finger. It's called the Bank of Greece. And 100 billion euros, according to the ESS. You should go to the ESS, too. If you're in doubt with the ESS, go there too. Did you hear that, Mr. Stathakis? You should go to the ESS, too. It's not just Bank of Greece. The NSM says similar things.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u126	Get me an ESM back then. The communication of the ESM and the Bank of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u127	You must know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u128	I'm not asking you for anything. It's simple. Bring the announcement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u129	I would like to make a parliamentary check, but you, since a Member of the Greek Parliament tells you that the Bank of Greece and the ESM supports the economic period of your two years and tells the figures I present, you have an obligation to investigate them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u130	Get me the paper. It's not like that. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u131	And if that's not the case, deny it, raise it, heal it and put them in place. This is what a proper minister of a government is doing, which is responsible. To move my finger and I won't allow it to happen to you and it won't solve the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u132	But I asked you for the paper, I didn't say anything to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u133	Mr President, I am constantly interrupted by the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u134	Go on, Mr. Papakosta.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u135	Now, take note here of the issues that I mentioned earlier, in sensitive health issues. On the whole, ladies and gentlemen - we have many doctors here - the budget of the Greek Ministry of Health - and I would like you to tell me then with a yes or no vote we are voting on - is reduced by 3.8 % and the transfers from the regular budget to the EEA in 2017 are reduced by 38.1 %, i.e. from EUR 526 million, are reduced to EUR 326 million. That is to say, if we do the act, 200 million euros. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] At the same time, I must tell you that the planned costs of hospitals and other health agencies for 2017 - let me say, Mr President - are 5% reduced. Now listen and note, ladies and gentlemen, the planned transfer payments to the healthcare area, that is, payments made for health services to citizens, are falling - the figure is too high - by 42.11% compared with 2016. I looked at that number three times, the reduction. With regard to the reduction of the grant for the EEA, according to the report which we have been given, the reasoning is that it is due to the expected improvement in the financial size of the EEAS, which is based on the revenue from increased insurance contributions, with 30% unemployment, on health care and the expected reduction in unpaid commitments, obligations. In other words, live May. However, note the contradiction now, in the same text, that is to say in the report, it says that there is a condition for the term to be met. For the smooth functioning of the EEAS, it is conditional on ensuring the contributions received from the Social Security Funds. That's what I'm saying. I therefore ask the Government and the Ministers responsible - and Mr Juliarakis is here - who are making a budget: on what basis is the government's optimism to improve the financial size of the EEAS? First question. Is it based on an increase in the contribution to medical care from 4% to 6%? Is that where it's based? Because the general impression is that the EEIG's finances are going well, that its revenues will be increased and that it will also be possible to reduce its subsidy by EUR 200 million. This is the impression given. With regard to prescribing, the government's policy aims to reduce prices rather than control prices. Wrong policy. Incorrect political direction completely. Why is she wrong? Where did I judge it? From a simple comparison I made, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The increase in sales of pharmaceutical preparations by 5% in 2015 was recorded in 2015, compared with 2014. The aim must be to reduce expenditure through greater market penetration, which the government cannot achieve. The institutions, to which we must be told what commitments they have given for the medicine, for supplies - to come here to the House to tell them by the health ministers - have set the target of infiltrating generics to 60% against branded preparations. Within 2015 do you know how much it increased? Just 1.4%. The condition of hospitals should see that it is described with touches of vividness. Impressive situation. In the rapporteur's report it is noted that efforts will continue to retain their expenditure, and specific reference is made to the fact that it has not been presented - listen! - the need to strengthen hospitals from the state budget this year. My own and citizens' questions: With these findings made in the budget text, the government obviously considers that the financing of hospitals is absolutely sufficient. In fact, it does not even need additional aid, and in 2017, the grant will remain exactly unchanged, itself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u136	Complete your thoughts, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u137	I shall conclude, Mr President. In other words, there will continue to be, firstly, multi-month standby lists in the oncological sections of public hospitals, which are subordinated because many radiotherapy machines are out of service, but also the hospitals themselves are unable to pay for their repair or replacement. That's the first. Secondly, the lack of material in hospitals will continue next year, and I very much urge the Ministry of Health to stop attacking the workers in hospitals who are talking every day about a shortage of materials. The political leadership disproves them, but it is denounced every day by the workers and society of course. I have to say that in the economy, ladies and gentlemen, there is an undeniable principle and you will allow me, Mr President, to close this with the finance ministers. When an economy continues to degrade, its social benefits, like the public health services, which concern us, will continuously decrease with the corresponding negative effects. Under the Wagner Act - you know him very well - the German economist, as we speak with the Germans, when the economy develops, the rate of change in health costs is greater than the growth rate of the economy. But when the economy is in recession, the rate of decline in health expenditure is higher than the degree of recession in the economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Papakosta. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u139	Shutting down...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u140	No, Mr. Papakosta, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u141	Mr President, I cannot vote for...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u142	You've exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u143	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u144	No, no. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u145	I'm closing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u146	Please hang up now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u147	Yes, I'm closing now, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u148	You've taken another five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u149	I conclude by saying to my dear colleagues, particularly the Congress: please read the budget again, because it is a budget which does not solve problems, it is a budget that is more harming the country and, in particular, the sensitive health sector, if you are interested, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u150	Good. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-six students and students and two educational attendants from the 3rd High School of Halandri. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u151	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u152	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u153	I would like to make a clarification. My objection was very clear. I do not think any Member of Parliament can use institutions such as the Bank of Greece or the ESS, invoking something that neither one organisation nor the other have ever said. There is no report, no document, no evidence to base it on. It has been formulated, I repeat, by websites which have misinterpreted statements or debates made by the Presidents of these institutions. I think it is incomprehensible that someone here in Parliament invokes the Bank of Greece to support such a argument. There aren't any of these. It is a debate that took place at a conference where something was said or not said - address anyone who said it - but one cannot invoke an institution, something that the institution has not said. The same applies to the ESM. That is why it was my objection to the New Democracy's arguments to invoke personal opinion - if they think it is certain, I do not consider it to be the President of the ESM or the President of the Bank of Greece, whom I do not think it is certain either. It is good not to confuse these things.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u154	Mr President, please, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u155	No, Mrs. Papakostas, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u156	Mr President, it was personal. I'm the one who's explaining.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u157	No, Mrs. Papakosta, it wasn't personal. We won't have a dialogue. Oh, no. Mr. Constantine, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u158	I'll be a regular. A parentheses I would like to say about Census Civicism, because it has caught them in a stroke today. They cannot understand that with Mr Antonis Samaras' famous agreement we would have 4.3 surpluses and today we have 1.75. In this context, the conversion of measures into the Greek people is 4.5 billion. If they can figure it out, they can figure it out. Now the gentlemen of the Opposition are coming and talking about a left-wing parenthesis, talking about amateurism, about an inadequate parade that can't negotiate, about incompetent people who can't close the evaluations. One falsehood after another, everything falls into the void. This left-hand parentheses, as you say, will at some point be closed, ladies and gentlemen, but the circle of the memoranda that you have opened will also be closed. The tough comitology will be closed, the blockade of our country from the international markets will be closed after all, the disastrous logic of the predator - you know it very well - who has been running our place for so many years. Then there will be another left parentheses, the one we are trying to build now, with society standing on its feet, with realistic budgets, such as the one for which we are here today, which will surprise us positively by overcoming the objectives, as will the previous one. Because last year you said the same thing and fell out. Don't forget that. We were in the same room a year ago and you were saying other things. However, the main objectives of the 2017 budget policy are the maintenance of the balance, which focuses on exiting from the fiscal adjustment programme, fair sharing of adjustment costs and fair distribution of benefit to citizens. The 2017 budget launches a series of targeted interventions, such as the EUR 760 million of social solidarity income - which you for solidarity do not remember the poor or mindful - and the strengthening of the health, education and social protection sectors of over EUR 300 million, the savings of expenditure from policies already under way in pensions, allowances, ministries' expenses, EUR 960 million. Step by step, we'll lay the foundations that you would never want. Step by step we will gain the confidence of our European partners, which you have always lost because of your reformist failure. You were called a reform government, and only poster you know how to reform, as many in your office. Of course, when you have the weights, it's a question of how you're gonna mess with them. We understand you, but we don't like you. Even at the last moment, we call on you to support national efforts, by welcoming short-term debt measures - and do not go out to television receivers to disorientate all Greek citizens - measures that do not eliminate the insurance funds, see PSA 2012, measures that do not give hands to microbiologists - we have forgotten about them. When your President, Mr. Mitsotakis, says he wears the shirt of National Greece on national issues, he should know that beyond the color of the shirt, the shirts are watered with sweat. A man who was in the court tells you. If this sweat is the sweat of intertext and of interests, we inform him that we choose the sweat of the Greeks of fighting for their daily survival. That sweat we respect. The political directions are different for you and us. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] Even now, you are taking care - and say it - of collective bargaining, of collective redundancies. Do not be afraid of Mr Mitsotakis, let him say so, it is not a shame, against any additional measure after 2018. Unless you don't want to. Time to know that we will be here in 2018, as we told you last year, with the same government. It won't be the left parentheses, as you think. We will submit the 2018 budget. You continue the same violin asking for elections. As I said in my previous speech to the House, your success story, to make one last comment, what was it? One of your goals was to evaluate you said we wouldn't shut it down and shut it down. The second is that the cutter's coming in. The third is the second evaluation. We're gonna turn it off 95%. We're going to get through what we have to do, we're going to get through it properly, in the interest of shutting down the evaluation. Third was debt. You were saying that debt is sustainable. It's okay. You will see us next year, in 2018 here. Be well, we'll all be fine. We're asking you to put your back on. Put back on, it's not bad, it's really the national team. Tell the Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, and all the government that tried to do that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u159	So do we. Mr. Koukoutsis from Golden Dawn has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr President. Good way to the Minister. I would also like to point out that I have sat down to see several speeches, I have watched them on the right and on the right, and I have noticed that too many Members are taking the opportunity to unleash cords with vulgar words against the Golden Dawn, which reminds me of my late grandfather. My grandfather had a donkey, and because of my age I was afraid to get close to him, he said: “And to touch you, my child, and beat you, don’t come back to return. He is a donkey". In the health sector, therefore, in the years of the Memorandum, the Greek citizen has been following ministers and officials from the governments concerned to convince us that they need only to do our own good, with emergency budgets, as they call them. They use terms and phrases unknown to the general public, such as clawback, rebate, success story, etc., to convince us that worsening conditions of access to public health is always for our own good. We have now entered the final straight ahead of a catastrophic health course promoted by the current government, as has been promoted by the previous ones. The data so far available show that chronic illnesses are expected to increase, mainly due to the less demand for medical services for purely economic reasons, increased stress, the adoption of a less healthy lifestyle and, in particular, the deterioration of health services offered. How, then, is the improvement in the quality of health services provided and the full coverage of the population with health budgets that will continue for years to be cut off? Therefore, the State budget for 2017 also presupposes a policy of austerity for health. Both the figures for state funding and the expenditure limit for structures and hospitals and, of course, for payroll will move to memorandum levels. The financing of hospitals for operating expenses in 2017 will reach EUR 1,301 million, while EUR 321 million will be provided for additional staff fees and medical care. The provision of wage spending is increasing by EUR 36 million, i.e. it goes to EUR 1.675 million. However, this increase comes to cover the minimum doses given for part of the staff, according to the new salary. The government therefore has no intention of staffing. He has no intention of making new permanent recruitments that will fill the huge gaps. For EEAS, the policy of incomplete financing continues and we will have a reduction in the state's financial flows of EUR 200 million, while you are estimated that at the end of 2017 the EEAS will have a profit of EUR 330 million. If possible, accountancy! Anyway. The expenditure ceilings for the operational costs of hospitals together with the units of the EMCDDA, although they show an increase of 214 million euros compared to 2016, do not render reality, since the funding of these is based on the performances of the EEAS. The provision for an increase in the number of hospitals’ own revenues and the units of the EDN leads to the conclusion that the rafts toward the citizens will be further increased. As for the announcement of the abolition of private workshops - another slogan - it was probably done for the eyes of the world since the corresponding costs are increased by EUR 31 million. Ladies and gentlemen, the lack of funding raises daily new debts in hospitals by sinking them even further. But let's not talk with numbers. Let us not create impressions, as you say. Let's not have an opposition force. So let us see what the average Greek sees, what the average worker sees, what the workers themselves, what we see in hospitals, in hospitals, in hospitals, in emergencies, in emergencies, in TLPs and cabins. Great shortages of medical and nursing personnel. Coverage with skilled and rural doctors. Lost trucks and strollers. Commendants to carry the patients. Inadequacy of time in the EAW. Accommodations in other hospitals. No hostility of infectious patients. Not many laboratory tests are carried out due to lack of reagents. We have shortages of basic materials. We got a ranch. The hallways are filled in front of the external medical services. Hemorrhagic incidents to be transferred from hospitals in the region to major hospitals in Athens and Thessaloniki. Endless waiting queues in the TLP, emergency departments. Therefore, many times - you have all seen them - we have violent behaviors of patients and escorts at the expense of staff. Because of the lack of CT scanners, in urgent cases, the interventions are actually taken blindly. One nurse we've seen to cover two and three medical treatments. In labs, waiting is huge. Many patients are indignant and fleeing without being considered. Beds and layers dissolved. Dirty toilets. Lack of health material, no antiseptics, gloves, gauze. A nurse forty patients on the shift. ID corresponds to a nurse in five to six patients. That's a huge shortage of assistant wardrobes. There's no auxiliary staff. Lack of clothing. Sheets changed once a week, blankets never washed. In the artificial kidney units, dialysis chairs are dissolved. Long waiting for patients after enrollment into the on-site until they operate or find a bed in some intensive care unit. Consumables of good quality and of Asian origin. Available medicines are unable to deal with microbes, resulting in high mortality rates and a significant increase in hospital costs. In the afternoon and at night the cleaning staff are minimally unexistent. Contractors at the same time do not fulfil their obligations, reducing staff and materials from contracted materials. For all of this, we can write volumes of whole books. It's not our imagination. It's the reality that we all live in our daily lives. Do you think that after all this Mr. Paulakis and every Minister, the State Secretary, an official, is relieved of his responsibilities as a result of democracy or leftoverism? Since it does not answer the questions of the Members of the Golden Dawn and by extension of the hundreds of thousands of Greeks voting Golden Dawn, is it considered successful in your left dreams? Speaking to the Greek people, I have nothing else to say to him. You guys have to say good-bye. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u161	Mr. Diaras has the floor now. Here you go, Mr. Deiaras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr President. From the Step of the House, I would like to welcome the election of the ecologist Alexander Van Der Bellen as President of Austria. His election is a positive fact, because their citizens have chosen them toward a far-right candidate, but also because the role of ecology is recognized in his face in this time of year. Ladies and gentlemen, the drafting of the budget is most bound by the sizes and characteristics of the economy that have been shaped in the past, but it also shows the government's political direction. Indeed, in the country's situation, the margins of shifting towards a sustainable economy are smaller. But every time, you have to manage the existing financial instruments and data in a better and fairer way. Also, with the budget you have to manage the financial commitments from the Memorandums and other commitments and multiple dependencies from the European and international economic system of neoliberal globalisation. This framework is binding and we know it. We economists and the Left know that this system leads to many dead ends. First of all, it leads to the concentration of wealth in a few hands - the UN figures say that 1% of the world's population owns as much as 99% of the world's population - the dominance of multinationals and the increase in dependence on economies and nations. Secondly, it leads to the collapse of small and medium-sized strata and small property. Thirdly, it promotes a model of waste of natural resources and environmental damage. Fourthly, this economic, social system of neoliberal globalisation is incompatible with the positions of ecology and the left. Mostly, however, it is incompatible with the prospect of survival for the next decades and centuries. The historical question comes back: What do we do today until we change this system? Firstly, we should not return to the logic of the past, which was a consequence of the following factors: Firstly, criminal irresponsibility for the economy and the country. The PASOK and New Democracy governments borrowed what they borrowed, as long as they maintain their customer system and maintain it in power. Secondly, market immunity, without rules and controls and the absence of a plan for the economy with any elements of viability. The free, inconsistent market, which the New Democracy and the global neoliberal right have defended, has led to the complete disorganization of the economy. I will only refer to the five years of governance of the New Democracy, 2004-2009. We had a deindustrialisation of the country or a reduction in industrial production by 33% and a reduction in agricultural production, at the same time, by 28%. We have expanded the services and parasiticism that have reached 80.2% of gross national product, when industrial production, construction, mining, processing, refineries, etc. All together, they accounted for 16% of GDP. Also, agricultural production, fisheries and forestry, etc., were reduced to 3.8% of GDP. In 1995, if I remember correctly, it was 8% of GDP. Greece, especially rural, without industrial production, has a negative external trade balance in agricultural products. For example, in 2008 we had imports of 7.1 billion and exports of around 4 billion. That's a big difference! That is why we see lentils from Latin America, potatoes from Egypt and Turkey, fruits and kiwi from the other side of the world, from New Zealand. This was when in the same five years, 2004-2009, a public debt was added to the country of 120 billion. In addition to its service until then, we had primary deficits in the five years of the New Democracy that exceeded 50 billion and were covered with new loans. New loans, deficits and falling agricultural and industrial production in the country. So a number of questions come in: Who mortgaged the property of the Greek State? Who created the debt? Who succumbed to the future of the next generations? New generations will pay these loans for many decades. Which parties led the healthy banks - Agricultural Bank, Post Bank, etc. - to zero their value? Which parties through the stock market's speculative games left the uninformed Greek citizens unprotected at the hands of local and international eagles and grifters? Who let unconscious speculators steal the money of Greek depositors? Who also bankrupt the private banks, such as Aspis, Proton Bank, Cyprus, who are being damaged today by Greek taxpayers? Who opened streets for the eagle to flee their money abroad and fill the lists? These are relentless questions. You, those responsible for the country's destruction, ask for this crucial moment for elections to close the left-hand parentheses and return to power. We did not even see any evidence in Mr Hatzidakis' suggestion. We have not heard anything that shows that you have learned from your catastrophic mistakes, that you will change your model of governance. What you believe will apply if and when you become a government. So we need self-criticism towards the Greek people, self-criticism and the most responsible Nea Democrat and PASOKs, but - I would say - and the whole political system. Of course, the self-criticism and SYRIZA need for the wrong assessments, promises and any mistakes that have been made. Not self-criticism, and we're done. Self-criticising with a convincing commitment to changing the method and attitude of the whole political system, self-criticism and clearance, self-criticism and understanding to overcome the enormous difficulties. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So what do we do today? We have been asked by the institutions for a number of years to increase primary surpluses of 3.5%. This means that at zero interest rates we would pay off in fifty-two years. To get the public debt to 60%, again if we had zero interest rates, we would like thirty-two years and primary surpluses - what we are asked for - EUR 6.2 billion a year that would all go to debts. This seems impossible. That is why the pursuit of a write-down of public debt and fixed zero interest rates must be permanent. As far as I am concerned, I will work and serve sustainable development rather than just increasing sizes, because it is the only way out of the deadlock to restore our relations with the next generations. We must tell all the truth to the Greeks and to the Greeks. From now on, we will live only with what we will produce and with a fair burden-sharing, since those who are in the governments believe in this, that is to say in law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u163	Good, Mr. Deiaras. That's the best setup.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u164	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u165	Mrs Buddhism has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr President. No matter what the Members who go through this Step, and however they do not like it, reality is one: The SYRIZA - ANEL Government is the epitome of incompetence. This is objective and is described by a phrase: it is the government of closed borders and closed banks. In two months' time it has been closed since our northern borders were closed and I have not heard anyone bother and refer to it. I followed the speech of the Minister for Migration Policy. In six months they have been closing two years since the catastrophic capital controls were imposed with incalculable consequences on the economy. Again, the government whistles indifferently. The question is one and specific: Can a country with closed borders and closed banks go forward? That must be answered frankly. Now what is the government's last propaganda effort is to constantly use the magic third quarter of 2016. Suddenly, they showed us that all the evidence was improved. Apparently, they compare their bad self to their worst self. Because the third quarter of 2016 compares it to the third quarter of 2015, when the capital controls were imposed and the country was found on the brink of the disaster. They tell us it's better than evidence. However, the data of the third quarter of 2015 was dramatically worse than those of the third quarter of the year 2014. One, two examples I will mention: You say that in this quarter of 2016 GDP increased by 1.8%. Yes, but in the previous quarter of 2015 it had decreased by 2.2% and in 2014 GDP had increased by 1.6%. So you're very behind the target and what happened in 2014. You're saying that the same quarter in the retail trade increased by 2.4%. Yes, but compare it to the third quarter of 2015, when it was down by 15%. He was offended. You do the same with exports. You say they've recovered. Yes, but compare them to 2015 after the Capital Controls, which had collapsed, while the corresponding quarter of 2014 had increased by 6.9%. The same happened with the industry's turnover, where again you have a dramatic decline in September 2015. It's 14.3% compared to 2014. And, of course, we have a terrible reduction in tourist revenues in the monthly period of 5.5%, 7.1% in the eight-month - negative record of eight years - a reduction in receipts in semester of 7.9%. All this has been caused by you, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, with this incalculable crisis that you have caused in the economy, with your so - proud negotiation, the capital controls, propaganda, lies and incompetence. I have heard the Minister speak again about the refugee crisis. I'm sorry, but you've been unable to deal with this. From April 2015 to November 2016, you have held forty-two meetings on refugee - immigration, nineteen interministerial under Alexis Tsipras and the others under other ministers etc. There have been tours on the islands, Mr. Tsipras has gone, Mr. Kammenos has gone, ministers, you have brought the Pope, you have brought Schultz. You haven't left anyone. There have been seven summits, six international meetings. The Prime Minister speaks on the phone with all the foreign leaders, Merkel, Juncker, Olad. The UN Secretary-General has been here. There have been two European Union-Turkey sessions, two NATO defence ministers sessions, one NATO summit. You have changed the responsibility of Mrs Christodoulopoulos to Mr. Mousala, Mr. Flavouraris, Mr. Kammenos, Mr. Vitsa and the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. You have created a galaxy of refugee crisis management instruments: Refugee Flow Management Centre, Refugee Crisis Management Coordination Centre, Government Board of Refugee and Migration Policy, National Coordinating Centre for Border Control, etc., Central Coordinating Body for Refugee Crisis, Upgrading First Reception Service to General Secretariat, Coordination Mechanism between Regions, Municipalities and NGOs, Central Coordinating Body for Health Matters. You've done nothing after all this. You've just voted for a law that abolished everyone else. You have accepted an agreement between the European Union and Turkey, without any interference, so that the borders remain closed and those arriving on the Greek islands are enclaved. You have destroyed tourism in the northeast Aegean. You have created a law on April 1st that does not provide for closed units. You are not separating refugees and immigrants. You have abolished the law of the country, according to which illegal entry into the country was a crime. So, after that, the Minister cannot come and tell us, 'we want national unity'. You've had forty two meetings - as I told you, you've turned the wind - he says he's made eleven trips and you haven't achieved anything. Now are you telling us that we need to keep our borders closed, our banks closed? That's nice and you've done it? Look, today we have December 7, 2016. Incidentally two years ago, on December 7, 2014, in his speech on the budget Mr. Tsipras had warned that we should not commit the next government, because he wanted to make his own decisions. That is exactly what you are doing today, you commit the next government. He also said, Mr. Tsipras, that the memorandum is not something from which one can go in. Anyone who serves it does not find the door out easily. It turned out to be prophetic. Mr. Tsipras has entered the Memorandum, he keeps signing Memorandums and not only does he not find the exit door, but constantly discovers new entrances to new memoranda. Mr President, thank you. I would like to put forward for the record the timing of the incapacity of this government in the last two, about, years in refugee immigration, for anyone who is interested in receiving the information from both the government and other colleagues, as well as from the history of the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, too, in fact, for managing time. Mr. Vettas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u168	Mrs Vulture, you will allow me to ask for a favor. What you mentioned about the very great offer and the many meetings that we made as government for the refugee issue, to put it on my page.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u169	Yeah, but it didn't work.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u170	I'll do it, Mrs. Vulture, you know that. Ladies and gentlemen, the budgets continue and obviously, the 2017 budget is based on the end-of-year figures, the 2016 budget. If we go back a year, we will all remember that then, in the same month last year, we promised that we had three main objectives. Firstly, we must implement policies which do not create fiscal gaps and deficits, and that means new measures. Our second main objective was to stir up, reduce the recession - we had a recession at that time - and, of course, to strengthen the social budget, which did not exist until the end of 2014, in order to reduce unemployment as much as possible and, of course, to strengthen those sectors of the social state, health and education, which have been subject to the greatest pressure and weights over the years. This year, then, closes without recession, closes with growth. Unemployment has declined slightly. But it shows a steady decline. In order not to make specs - neither of us - against the Greek people about unemployment, say two things. Unemployment is not always measured by reducing its rate, but by improving the quality of employment. I say this because today we are in a very difficult position to turn part-time or rotating work into full-time work. But you know, in order to be able today and tomorrow, in future, to talk about a serious reduction in unemployment, we need to finance, we need to choose which sectors of the economy we are going to go forward, we need to see which production processes we are going to develop, so that the final product, the final service of the Greek producer reaches the European and world consumers, reach the European shelf to create goodwill. Of course, in order to reach goodwill, it is precondition that we have incorporated basic things, such as the science of our young scientists and innovation. So we have implemented key objectives. I heard the second speaker, the speaker from New Democracy, who claimed that the profits of 2014 went missing. The profits of 2014, at the end of 2014, what we received, and on the basis of which we supported that budget, ladies and gentlemen, were concrete. It was a surplus of 500 million instead of 4.5 billion. It was a cash deficit from the most official lips that "Lords, we forgot to say that they don't have a surplus or a missing $500 million to pay wages and pensions". What you left us is 27% unemployment. What this budget leaves is growth and not recession, is the slight reduction in unemployment, as I said, and of course the strengthening of the social budget. It doesn't save the situation. The social budget is 1,410 billion, distributed, as my previous colleagues have said, in four main places. I am not going to talk about this. The 2017 budget, the new budget, is a tough and difficult budget, obviously because it has to balance between a budgetary policy, with which we had to compromise, because they did not leave any political tools. At the time of negotiation, we had neither political allies in the interior - as much as outside - and above all we had no economic power, we had no money. They hadn't left anything, gentlemen, in the cashier. If we were to discuss today with the partners in this budget, the government would have had another negotiation and had a better course in the country. We'll make it a year later. So the social budget, as I have said, is extremely difficult. It solves a few problems. It's getting a piece of the world out of poverty. But that is the big question, and to which is condensed the agony and poverty and the impasse of the world, ladies and gentlemen, is what is happening now. Dear gentlemen, what should I hope? What can I hope for? So to be honest with the Greek people, we should say two things. The issue of productive reconstruction and the problem of uplifting and recuperating our economy is very difficult and obviously, it takes time, tools, mechanisms, legislation, but mainly time. And time, unfortunately, is against poverty. But to say in two minutes what exactly we have done over the years, what is missing and what is missing to get growth ahead: money. For who? For the natural person only? No, about the operation, of course. Money from where? The banks. Which banks? Which banks stayed and how did they stay? So we have been through the recapitalisation today in a short-term debt arrangement. It opens the table and cleans and obviously we will talk and then immediately about the long term. And the surpluses are going to be discussed in front of us, so that we can get the best solutions. What does the bank get from this? A clean field, bond market through quantitative relaxation, which means that our bonds will go nominally higher. They will lose returns, go a little further, increase their prices, increase the bank's assets. What have we legislated a while ago, or rather what are we going to legislate or rather what have we discussed and what have we solved? The extrajudicial regulation of the debt, because without this solution banks cannot, obviously, go ahead, they cannot afford. Obviously, without this solution, no international institutional investor will come here to invest, I mean buying bank shares. I am not saying that it has been solved, but it is resolved, the case is clear, and indeed a government, which is not an ally for the opposition. I in my area had an investment - Mr Mardas mentioned it in committee - an investment, 'Atalanti Hills'. It was called an investment of 1.5 million. I ask the Civic Opposition: The folder has been filed since 2006. SYRIZA took over in 2015. Licences were issued in 2016, within one year. Lost ten years of work, gentlemen! Lost ten years of employment! So do we have any other financial instruments? Obviously we do. A lot? We don't have much. We are looking for the lens to find these too, whether they are called an investment fund, called an Entrepreneurship Fund, or called 'Security', is a little money. I would like to close, Mr President, by saying this: the subject of implementing a policy is very important. It is extremely important who implements a policy. And believe me that we have a moral advantage, because we are human - both the Prime Minister and the Ministers and the MPs - who from power did not stink not our hands, nor our fingers, nor our nails. And that's a reality. And if it wasn't for it, the place would have plunged. And I combine this with something that happened to me this morning, entering Parliament's entrance from the standpoint of Queen Wisdom, where a gentleman stops me and says to me: 'Good morning, Mr Vetta' and I say to him: 'Good morning'. He says to me, "Can I tell you something?" And I say to him, "Of course, please." He tells me: "Mr. Vetta, do something, please, keep the previous" - and I don't know who he was talking about and what he meant - "away from public money, away from public good and away from public administration and believe me, the country will go well in two years". Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u171	Mr Jellonis has the floor from the Democratic Reconciliation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u172	Ladies and gentlemen, while listening to the previous speaker, the end of every fairy tale came to my mind: 'They lived well and we lived better'. We are discussing the eighth Memorandum of Understanding today, the second one you are bringing SYRIZA - ANEL - and the third one you are calling on the antimonyers to implement. I cannot, however, comment on why we are in the eighth Memorandum of Understanding, because both the New Democracy and SYRIZA and the ANLL have used the crisis as a vehicle from the outset to come to power, both Mr Samaras and the Zappa and on the other hand, the illusions and delusions created by SYRIZA, to unite the components, to make a party and then to understand power. Retrospectively, however, you are all following the one and only national line that has drawn up the PASOK since 2010, but because of the non-national understanding this means that we are today in the eighth Memorandum of Understanding with additional burdens on the Greek people every time. It has been proven that the machine of gods does not exist and when the Greek people believed it, they paid dearly. The budget debate for 2017 has started within a climate of uncertainty and general insecurity at political and economic level. However, the coup d'état is now celebrating the success of the second evaluation. Listen to see, ladies and gentlemen, we are no longer surprised by this because SYRIZA's populism has sometimes been expressed in various ways. Prior to taking power over the tale of sketching memorials, abolishing HISA, increasing wages to 751, restoring pensions. Do you remember all this? There goes the twelfth, not the twelfth. During the "first time left", with the story "Troika is gone", the institutions came, the referendum saved the country, we now signed a programme and not a memorandum. Now the fairy tale has been mutated and promises that the completion of each evaluation is equivalent to an exit from the memorials and take-off of the economy in the eye of spring. Ladies and gentlemen, you have loaded the Greek people all this time with an unnecessarily third memorandum, with 86 billion new loan, 12.5 billion new measures, with a loss of GDP close to 20 billion, with an outflow of deposits of 40 billion and at the cost of capitalisation of the banks and you are now coming before the second assessment is completed, and you are celebrating the debt reduction. We didn't see the writings, though. I'll talk to you about this arrangement along the way. However, as many numbers as we analyse today, citizens know very well why they are experiencing your tax and tax policy, since they live in their daily struggle for survival and at the end of every month in an endless attempt to pay the bills. Unfortunately, the people of the country have been poorly and will still be poorer, because your stay in power is mainly based on the three-fold taxes - poverty - unemployment. And all this to try and get back to where we were two years ago at the end of 2014. In other words, two years of governance SYRIZA - ANEL lost for Greece. We have, however, been left with the extra measures to the detriment of the Greek people and the proud negotiation, which has mortgaged the property of the country for a century. And now you're preparing the fourth memorial to the bicentennial. It has nothing to do with how you baptize it, it's all you've got at the moment. With regard to the infamous development and the issue, namely the production of further wealth, the budget is estimated at 2.7%. Where? How? We saw the investors - migrants, according to Mr Marda. Do we now have new investors, after the Prime Minister's visit to Cuba, from Nicaragua and Venezuela, and we do not know that? The development, ladies and gentlemen, is not ordered, but is achieved by a plan, planning and creation of a pro-investment environment. Your economic policy unfortunately increases taxes, defends the customer state, pursues entrepreneurialism and is generally extorted everything that creates and produces the place. He condemns to exile the new Greeks to avoid the economic nightmare. But when we talk about growth and national productive reconstruction, then the primary position in the hierarchy of the sectors of the economy that we want to support is that of the primary sector. In the rural world, however, with your policies, which are based on the logic of 'farmers, I take them all', there will be nothing left. The two years of your government over 1.5 billion have been removed from agricultural income. For 2017, agricultural income tax at a rate of 13% that will go from 22% to 45%, when industrial profits are taxed at 29%. In addition to the CAP's agricultural aid, which will make the previous measures even more unfavourable, when aid is given to compete with the primary sector and nowhere, but nowhere in Europe they are taxed. Simulate agricultural holdings with businesses and thus increase the tax advance to 100%, increase the insurance contribution to the OGA to 27% - under-territorial of what the farmer has paid so far, an additional secret tax - since for the first time insurance contributions are linked to taxable income and will amount to over 27%.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u173	How much is the taxable income?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u174	I'll tell you, Mr. Papadopoulos, don't rush. Increased VAT on agricultural supplies to 24% from 13%. On the islands a reduction in the refund of the excise duty on oil. What does all this work? A dramatic reduction in the production base of the agri-food sector, a reduction in the value of agricultural production, a reduction in agricultural income, an increase in the value of inputs, an increase in the value of exports. This disastrous and tax-suppressive policy you impose on the agricultural sector is the devastating Round up. And those who don't know it are the pesticide, where it falls, it grows nothing. This is your policy for the rural economy, for agricultural production, for Greek farmers! Spread winds and you will reap very soon storms. Get out of the villages and I'll see you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u175	This last one, Mr. Jelloney, is the contribution to national understanding?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u176	To conclude, Mr President, I would like to say that the Greek people and the cage of your time have now taken the coup d'état. That is why we do not intend to vote in favour of a budget without a development perspective, socially unfair, which is based on a fully-fledged fiscal policy. We are not voting for a budget which entangles the country in the depth of the damage that you have caused it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u177	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the "Eleftherios Venizelos" Hall and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-seven students and students and two educational attendants from the Kymnassia Messinia High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mrs Antonopoulou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u178	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this budget is the second budget tabled by our Government. Like the first, the 2017 budget aims to combine the budgetary balance with a burden-sharing, which is fair in terms of our budgetary policy. I understand that there are tensions, that there is the Step in which representatives of the parties are going up today and denounced, but I would like to begin - and then of my speech I will clarify some issues - by saying that the implementation of the budget and the achievement of the objectives of the adjustment programme, despite the redistribution of budgetary burdens, still remains a process that our Government is aiming to close. At the same time, however, this need for progress to be made to bring us to an end, which will allow us to get out of the vicious circle of the past. The aim of the second assessment, the country's integration into the quantified relaxation mechanism, I imagine they are common objectives of all parties, because they will want to improve the economic and social climate in our country. So, therefore, because our aim is to remove capital restrictions, restore liquidity to businesses in general, and our aim is to help us move as a society in calmer waters, the 2017 budget sets out precisely the conditions to achieve this objective. The protests are expected. However, we must remember and finally agree on some minimum points, precisely because we must put our country and the good of our citizens above these kinds of controversies, which we have been experiencing for many months. Who disputes that the economy has already entered stability? I have heard from several rapporteurs, from several speakers, that the figures are wrong, that we are making comparisons wrong. I would like to ask the following question: Who disputes that there is an increase in gross fixed capital formation by 2.4%? Foreign investment has increased, compared to the previous two years and this year, by 99%, that is, from 684 million to 1.3 billion. Aren't those real numbers? Where do we get them from? Where do we rely and say that all the indications are in the right direction, which allows us to have an optimism? When we look at new jobs seasonally adapted, is there an increase? Is there an increase in new wage earner jobs according to ERGAN? When we look at the rate of unemployment, will we not all agree that we have today, in relation to what we have received, not what we have created, at least 100 000 jobs less as far as the unemployed are concerned? Will we not agree that we have two hundred thousand jobs, which indicate that employment from January 2015 to today has increased by two hundred thousand jobs? In other words, unemployment is not reduced simply because we have the outflow of our fellow citizens, who can find a job abroad, we have a net increase in employment. Economic climate indicator, industrial entrepreneurial expectations index, Manager procurement index, all present a positive mark in the last eight, nine months. So let us now come to agree that in the last two quarters we have a positive GDP growth rate. The successive meetings of the Prime Minister with the leaders of countries to which Ms Vultesis referred earlier must be seen from two completely different angles. We therefore say that Greece's positive image has been recovered abroad. These meetings have not been made and the political leaders have not come simply because they would like to cross from Greece for a couple of hours from their lives, they have come precisely because they show their support and because the Prime Minister has succeeded in changing the image of the country abroad. I would now like to devote a few minutes, to speaking very specifically about how this government in the area where I am responsible does not know what is going on, because that is what I hear all the time, that we do not know what we are doing, nor have experience, nor do we have objectives, in the gap we are. As you know, in January 2015 the support programmes for the unemployed, financed by the European Community Fund and co-financed by the country, were proposed for the period 2014-2020 as forward projects from the previous government, absorbing 750 million of the 950 million that the country had at its disposal for the 2014-2020 programming period. And I wonder if we did not make the adjustments we made after the first year, which we would have spent 750 million - very good for our Government, as would anyone there in 2015 - next year, from the beginning of 2016 to 2020, exactly what could we do with 200 million? So when we set targets and when we make our programming, management is based on deep knowledge and a very deep sense of responsibility towards the citizens. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] Just a moment, Mr President. So we proceeded with this redesign. We have now come to draw up such programmes in support of the unemployed, although unemployment is falling slowly but steadily, as I have said before - there is no doubt - at the same time what we are seeing? That more than the unemployed, those who have been fired recently, but those who have been made redundant three and four years ago, appear in the OAED and want to be registered. Why? Because if we take a project, such as public works, with the design that existed before, for every job published by the previous governments, we had five unemployed who wanted to be registered. Today, for each position, we have 12. We have doubled the number of people who wish to be registered, even though we have less unemployment. Why? Because the OAED is reformed, because the OAED provides better services, because our programming corresponds much more to the needs of the labour market, so the unemployed want to be registered. The opposition is coming, therefore, and is permanently at risk and says: 'A, unemployment is escalating' when unemployment is falling. And what elements do we use misleadingly, as we use in many areas of our economy? We use those elements selectively. For example, because we have better services in the OAED today, our government, and because more unemployed people come in, get the registered unemployed, not the unemployed in the economy and say 'the unemployment has increased'. Unemployment has fallen. Stop lying. To stop jeopardising ourselves, because what we have in front of us is how the economy, how society can go through the next day. We are determined. We're changing a page. We won't stay as a left parentheses, but like the government that took the country out of the memorandum. This year's budget is another step that will bring us closer to this objective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u179	Mr. Balomenakis, from SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u180	Mr President, I am not interrupting - and if there was a possibility of a correspondence, I would speak to the Minister, because what he said most is true.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u181	A lot of 'if' sounds, too much 'if'. If, however, there is nothing to do with 'if'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u182	Because my name has been mentioned, Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u183	He didn't mention it. It was as if it weren't mentioned, Minister, your name was not mentioned. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Do not record anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u184	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u185	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u186	Mr. Brutsi, Mrs. Antonopoulou, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u187	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u188	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u189	You're welcome. You don't have the floor, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u190	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u191	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u192	If everyone was here in the Chamber shouting at their feelings and feelings, it would be at least a bell. Mr. Balomemakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening. In general, I too can observe, on the occasion of this debate, that there is not rarely a lot of data being used in a general way, and I think that, together with the pastology, destruction is a mixture of easy demagoguery, I would say. I wanted to focus my speech on this very matter, because I have noted, on the occasion of the speech of some prominent anti-population executives with economic knowledge, that technical language often creates a demagogic field. For example, the widening of the tax base which the budget is talking about as one of the objectives is usually seen as the imposition of new taxes. But the expansion of the tax base means first of all that more will be paid and not that fewer people will pay more. I believe that many, all of us agree on this, that this will further mean that the phenomenon of tax evasion will be reduced, that VAT will not be misinterpreted to such an extent, that the incorporation will come out of the vocabulary and will take place. It means a general use of plastic money, of electronic transactions, all that will necessarily lead to less tax evasion. This is the concept of enlarging the tax base - we need to make it clear - and not new taxes necessarily and no one ends, it does not end, baptizing it 'new taxes'. I have the impression that to any well-meaning citizen who sets out these very objectives, he will not disagree. I am also convinced that anyone who is drafted in the sense that this is new taxes, in essence and objectively, is serving tax evasion and those who are systemically evading tax. It is therefore essential to achieve the objective of broadening the tax base, in the sense that science, rationality and everyday life are given, and we must stress that, when the tax base is enlarged, this is a safe way of going to a system of lowering tax rates. A reduction, which everyone understands is necessary both for social and economic reasons, but also for economic reasons, and increasingly. The government, ladies and gentlemen, is committed to reducing tax rates. It is necessary, however, to obtain resources from elsewhere and above all from the fight against tax evasion. None of us escapes the fact that overtaxation, which is certainly also the burden of insurance contributions, is causing considerable problems in low and medium-sized sectors. Irrespective of who is responsible and what percentage of the widespread tax evasion - that is to say, what percentage every social aspect - is the fact that a brave policy of compensation is needed. In the context of the current economic difficulties, the government has already given examples of intent to reorientate tax burdens. I would like to point out that the most objective analysts, those who are doing a thorough analysis and do not level, if I may express a 'caustic' analysis, have long pointed out that the government's economic policy is of a redistributive nature. I am, of course, talking about the well-known labelling of BSE, the Greek Industry Association, at the beginning of October, where he commented as a redistribution, of course, about one billion, which the budget is planning to make up for a very low and medium-income loss. It seems that this approach has been annoyed - although the amount allocated is not really large, as much as we wanted - but the most important representative of large capital, which was not disturbed when the real, not only large, major, violent adjustments, grabbing income and savings by the stockup bubble, nor at the time of the infamous PSI, the damage made to micro-enterprises and insurance funds. We can talk about tax relief, without it being demagogy, without enlightening the difficulties and without concealing the real limits that exist today. We are talking about an objective, to the extent that the committee's status leaves, starting from those layers that do not have a voice, they do not have a large number of representatives in Parliament or in economic decision-making centres, namely very small, small businessmen, low, medium-sized in general. The objective of financial support and relief in the middle sections is that of serving him in other ways, when, for example, he is struggling against excessive surpluses, since even their small reduction will mean greater scope for tax relief. Similarly, however, it will strive in a creative way to create conditions for increasing the competitiveness of these enterprises, through targeted choices. It is well known that the new development law and the new ESDP programmes, which are summarised in the 'less than more than a few' principle. He also serves him with the new financial instruments, which he is patiently, wisely, good planning and also decisively has already launched, such as the Participation Fund, the Entrepreneurship Fund, the "Security", which in a few weeks' time will start implementing the EIF, the National Fund for Entrepreneurship and Development, which he hopes to be the main lever of financing small and medium-sized entrepreneurship in the new era. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u194	Thank you for managing the speech too. Mr Kelles has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, these days we are discussing another budget of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, with the country not only being on the Protestant of austerity and recession, but trapped on a dangerous road, due to the dangerous manipulations of the Greek Government. The recent Eurogroup agreement demarcates this route in the worst possible way. You surely talked about closing the review in November, it passed in December, and we still see. You were definitely talking about no new measures and now your Government is obliged to take new measures if it wants to achieve the fiscal objective for primary surpluses of 3.5% of GDP from 2018. In short, new pension cuts, a reduction in tax, and of course you also have the great thorn of industrial relations. Of course all this after the Greek State's property was committed to the superstate for ninety-nine years. You are now committing the country and for primary surpluses for 3.5% for decades, creating the ideal conditions for a strangle of the real market, which is already falling apart. And as soon as you have abolished the ESS, you have reduced wages and pensions, you have imposed the capital controls, the government's overdue debts to the heights, you have multiplied the malleables on the market and you are talking about national success. That, ladies and gentlemen, is what is called cheating and, of course, you get excellent. The forecasts for this year's budget are over-optimistic. I wish you could achieve them, but your course so far leaves no room for optimism. The predictions are linked to reforms, but you are allergic to hearing alone. There is provision for an increase of 2.7%, which says it will come with an increase in private consumption of 1.8% and an increase in investment by 9.1%. Seriously, ladies and gentlemen, do you think the Greeks have available income for spending? I don't think you are. The numbers for the dues of individuals aren't telling you anything? I don't believe you're relying on privatisation! That's not your strong spot. Does the word 'COSCO' remind you of Greek, Skouria, 'TRAINOSE', Afantou in Rhodes? Not to say that you have just canceled the privatisation in the DESCRIP and the public lost 188 million euros plus lost jobs. Who are you kidding? This budget will certainly need a revision. It includes new taxes amounting to EUR 2.6 billion, VAT increases for everyone, but mainly for islanders, increases in fuel tax - oil, gasoline - an increase in pay-TV, fixed telephony, mobile phones, coffee, alcohol, beer and everything else you can imagine. There's nothing left. And all this, of course, is indirect taxation. Who are they burdening? The shipowners, the industrialists or the cosmopolitan? I guess they're a burden to the world. You have, however, suffered such a mutation here and you are doing the opposite thing, literally leveling the middle and grassroots strata beyond all logic. And allow me, before I go to education, to say two words on health - which I have been watching closely for two years - where the absolute dissolution has occurred. I think that we are all agreed on this. The situation in public health was never worse. You are now playing with the lives of patients, who are unable to serve by a system that stands alive thanks to the friendly efforts of medical, paramedical, administrative staff of the country. Structures have been dismantled by sub-financing and sub-straining, primary health care has been dissolved, for the first time they close, departments of public hospitals, surgery are postponed, cancer patients discontinue their treatment due to the lack of chemotherapeutic drugs. Yes, this is happening today in Greece. What about the worst? It doesn't seem like an improvement. We're listening to a plan for primary health care, but there's nowhere to be found. Two years we've heard it now. Let's hope he's coming sometime. I also see in the budget that you are reducing the grant to the EEA. Is that possible? Why - he says - will the EEAS be increased from 6% to 2% for health pensions? That doesn't even work for a joke. If you know very well, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister also knows that the money has never arrived and will never reach the EEA. Most are retained by pension insurance funds, mainly from the IKA, to tell the truth. I now come in the field of education. What can I say about education? Today, on all the front pages of the Greek newspapers there is this news about the position taken by the Greeks in the international Pisa competition by the OECD every three years. This competition measures the ability of 15-year-old students to apply knowledge and in particular skills in natural science, mathematics and text understanding to be able to participate actively in modern society. Do you know where the Greeks are? It's a disappointing position. It fully illustrates the culmination of the Greek educational system. Greek students scored under the base of all three tests.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u196	Now did the students learn letters?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u197	Every three years there is a competition, dear Mr. Beyala.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u198	With your own educational system...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u199	A Greek student to reach the level of a student from Singapore - her students first went to all three tests - should sit in the shrouds for two and a half more years. That's the reality, and it's not just SYRIZA. Unfortunately it's for all Greeks. Let us now come to the point. The new Minister of Education, loyal to the Prime Minister's dogma, evaluates in advance with an excellent degree all the policies proposed to further evacuate any concept of educational reform. Let me make a few remarks: The SYRIZA - ANEL government has pursued a disastrous policy which, after having rebuilt and dismantled everything that had been set up by previous governments, then in a pretext dialogue denounced by the federations of teachers, has brought it all back to its knowledge of the economy triumph. At the same time as this pre-formal dialogue was taking place, especially on special education, the Ministry submitted to almost all unrelated bills and an amendment, which not only did not regulate urgent and operational issues, but was a slap in the philosophy of successful accession institutions such as the accession departments and which were targeted at supporting, for obvious reasons of resource savings, or the abolition of any discrimination among workers in special education with an obvious objective of institutionalised abolition of special education, since all with zero qualifications could work in it, with an obvious objective of saving staff for special education and the elimination of excess staff that it created from general education itself. The Ministry from its election majorities for twenty thousand appointments of teachers and state funding for special treatment went to absolute silence about the appointments and the almost exclusively funding of the special treatment by the NSRP, and indeed with an absolute disequal distribution of resources over the various years of use. Finally, the educational world and society are laughing at what the government says and unfortunately weeps with what it does. Can I tell you about lifelong learning? Where should I start and where should I finish? Unfortunately, time is very limited.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u200	Actually, it's over already, Mr. Kelles.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u201	Yes, Mr. President, I'm ending. I will tell you just one word on agricultural matters, since I come from a rural area. I tell you that the farmers in Kambo again boil in Larissa and throughout Thessaly. You have strangled, with the overtax that you have imposed on the 100% advance payment of VAT at 24% of 13%, the triple contribution of the OGA, increased tax rates, and the country's last production unit. From land workers you turned them into tax workers, and of course you will find all of them in front of you, as the whole country will find them. In conclusion, I have no doubt that you will vote for the budget. You will vote 'yes' in the memorandum, 'yes' in the pension cuts, 'yes' in the country's sales for a century. The vote, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, is the first episode of your new drama to be a nightmare for the country. We will not vote on this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u202	Mr. Giokas has the floor from the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr President. It is obvious that the government will play the paper of its own success story in the next few years, which corresponds to what New Democracy and PASOK tried to present two years ago. That is what we have heard in the last few hours with the budget debate, that is what the government officials say, that we have surpluses, that we have achieved a debt relief, that we are going to get quantified, that investment will be made, that economic growth will come and that this growth will benefit and that the people will be relieved. Because Mr Stathakis referred before the opposition, saying that she questions the evidence, performance and indicators of the government, we have to make it clear that we are not questioning any of this. We accept that in the indicators and in the data you have set, you will go beyond real But the question is another, what the people have to answer. What does the people have to gain from these indicators from the government's performance? What does he have to gain from this Syrian success story? And that question needs to be considered, the people who have not yet said their last word and have not tried their power. We say that it has nothing to gain, neither from any debt relief, nor from any relaxation of the budgetary targets - although this relaxation on the basis of and the recent Eurogroup decision and the maintenance of the surpluses of 3.5% and after 2018 is referred to the bells - nor of course has it to gain from the long-awaited recovery of the economy. Where does this provision of the JRC arise from? Is it real or is it a prediction in the air? First of all, it is the state budget itself. It is a state budget that provides for growth in 2017, of the order of 2.7%. At the same time as it provides for growth, there is a new tsunami of taxes on people's layers, new cuts in social costs, new reduction in state funding in insurance institutions, and even new cuts in benefits. So, what is the impact of growth, which you are evangelizing in people's households? Zero to clay. Who's gonna hit her? Business groups, which will see their share of all tax revenues falling from 7.6% to 6.9% and will see even greater benefits for their investments, such as those you have given them and give them with the various development laws that you are voting on. Secondly, the provision of the JRC stems from the Eurogroup decision itself, for which the government provokes provocatively, according to which debt interventions, which reach the cash year 2060, will be accompanied not only by unnecessarily observing the current memorandum, but also by a new one beyond 2018, fiscal and structural measures, i.e. with austerity of constant, bloody surpluses and new regulations against retired and employed employees. The government can therefore celebrate the Eurogroup's decision that it is a posteriori for the recovery of the economy, but it is challenging that any recovery will neither return the enormous losses that our people have had since the years of the crisis nor halt the path of the worsening of their lives and, of course, it will be a recovery of uncertain, anemic, since developments in the European and global capitalist economy themselves are bleak. Thirdly, the provision of the JRC stems from the statements made by government officials themselves. Mr Tsakalotos a few days ago at the Hellenic American Chamber of Commerce said that the objective of reduced surpluses - which we said was to refer to the bells - would be exploited to reduce business taxation and not to relieve the people. Finally, the JRC's provision stems from the indisputable fact that the eruption of social conquests and rights, such as overthrows in labour relations, did not start in the last five, six, seven years. It started in the 1990s and 2000s in a period of growth and in a period of high growth. Of course, this policy has accelerated in the years of the crisis and the memoranda. One example: What did the European Union's White Paper on Labour say? In order to facilitate the employment of young people, it is proposed to introduce greater flexibility in minimum wages. 1994. After we had the cabinet act for the 5/11 of the new workers and then the under-priced wage. What else did he say? By reducing normal working hours, the number of parttime jobs can be increased. Hence all six out of ten jobs created - which Mrs Antonopoulou of course did not mention - are part-time jobs. When did the European Union say all this? In 1994, when the majority of Member States' governments were not neoliberal governments. The large majority were social-democratic governments. That is why it is a huge mockery of all those charming things that the government says about returning to normality and best European practices. This is the regularity of the European Union, these are the best European practices: the intensity of exploitation for the benefit of capital and to the detriment of workers. It is also obvious that the Government, for these services it offers, also takes the vote of confidence from its partners in the European Union, the International Monetary Fund, from the United States of America, because it is the Government of Special Missions. And not only closely on the issue of implementing policies against working people's rights, but also on other levels, which have to do with the dangerous developments in the region, with NATO, with the participation of our country in all these dangerous plans, probably with the Cyprus issue, which is ahead of us in the next few months, and goes by saying. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. And this vote of confidence that you get is why New Democracy, PASOK and other parties have come to the tiles, who consider themselves the most authentic expression of the interests of the bourgeoisie. That is why, if you look at the criticism they make in the government, it is neither about the objectives nor about the direction, it is about whether this government is determined, decisive, capable of implementing this policy and invoking your left past, your enmity towards your investments, your ideas, the Cuban journeys, which are allegedly preventing you from moving quickly. Of course, these parties, what they don't understand - or rather - but they don't want to confess openly because they don't want to be politically helpful - are that what they charge you as weaknesses to SYRIZA is your real power. It is your ability, for a while, to deceive the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u204	Come on, Mr. Gioka.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u205	On the one hand, we have hymns in Cesarean and Strate and on the other hand, wood from the MATs. On the one hand, prices in Castle and on the other hand, red carpets in Obama and especially your ability to rinse out the most reactionary ones, the European Union, NATO, lately, with the actions of your MPs, even the Golden Dawn, with common poles in photos, and of course rinse the capitalist system itself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u206	Mr. Darkness has the floor, and then Mrs. Kundura.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me in the budget debate for 2017 to focus on culture, multiculturalism, which is supervised by a ministry that has known glorious days of glory. Couple of money passed, with money from the OPAP, from the WPD, which were shared in the hostages, in the festivals of our own people's seals, in chapels, etc. What's left of this whole story? Nothing left. And we have to handle an important piece, without a lot of money. Nevertheless, this new 2017 budget is a household budget. It honours the little money that the Greek citizen can give for culture, the one with a lot of ease, always say it is our heavy industry and other such heavy bolts. We have tried in some areas to reduce costs - yes, reduction! But what's the cost? Costs for overtime associates and counsellors' fees, putting an end, a perfect one for what has been done so far by previous governments, the endless tails of associates, the endless tails of consultants, who have been paid obscenely. From 467,000, then, they are reduced to 122,000. Party's over. On the contrary, revenues are attributed to emblematic points of our country’s cultural beard, such as the Athens Festival. Of the 640,000 euros that we saved in the past years, there are now 3,400,000 euros, from revenue from the Casino of Corfu and Parnitha. It is a budget that cares for wages, pensions and social protection and restores injustices in the field of culture. You are blaming this 2017 budget. You also accused that 2016, you predicted that you would not be executed, executed and executed for a good positive purpose. We positively appreciate the recruitment of workers who, although they had been selected by the ADP, were pending their placement. They had been vindicated since 2010. With a political decision by the New Democracy and PASOK, you were delaying recruitment, keeping them hostages. I think it is important that the Minister should resign from bringing legal proceedings so as to strengthen the Ministry of Culture with a hundred and fifty more workers who had been vindicated by the courts, but the public was constantly applying the next level of justice to suffering and tormenting these people and others. More than ninety-eight successors were placed in previous ADP competitions. Total four hundred employees who offer their services at the moment to the Ministry of Culture. Mr Mitsotakis, Samaras and Venizelos, unfortunately, demolished the services by 50% through availability, redundancies, etc. These four hundred were chosen by means of imprecise competitions and transparent criteria of the AACC. They weren't your kids? They are not ours, but they deserve this position they have proclaimed and it was a matter of the state's moral and good functioning to take what they are entitled to and deserve. This 2017 budget has therefore also taken care of a three-year plan, which begins, of recruitment in the field of culture and of the real needs of intellectual potential and provision for new-born specialities, such as cultural managers. In the NRP: Culture in the NRP continues, 100% absorption we had in the previous budget, which you predicted would not be executed. 100%. How much did you have?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u208	That's all we had.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u209	Much lower. Too much lower. 100% you've never seen it. You've never achieved it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u210	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u211	We had 100% absorption in the NRP, which is the victory of this government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u212	So the works have entered you and been completed within a year?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u213	The EIF's revenue has increased. Did you limit the costs? No, we narrowed it down. It is prosperous in 2017, therefore, in the organisation of the new NSRF, as well as in the gains for which the Archaeological Resources Fund and other cultural organizations have escaped. For the first time, therefore, since the implementation of the Memorandums, there has been a real increase in the funding for culture small but real. And since we are in culture, we have heard a really tax exemption festival, terrible tax exemptions. Of course, it has been said that to have these tax exemptions, we must save 4.2 billion. Where are you going to save them? From your personal property, or will you do what you know very well? Reductions in wages, pensions and redundancies, the same, in hospitals, in education, in culture everywhere. The numbers are hard, unfortunately. You admitted it yourself. In the third quarter we had increased investments, increased exports, an increase in surplus, which is heading lasting care for the weaker groups in society. And so we have an economy with a medium-term perspective that is positive in order to lead to quantitative relaxation, which with medium- and long-term arrangements to see the exit from the memorandums finally. Ladies and gentlemen, the news from Monday's Eurogroup is good. In the short term, 4.5 billion in favour of the Greek people plus the conversion of interest rates. It's good news for the country, and it's misery not to recognize it. I am sure that each of the honourable Members and the honourable Members of the opposition on a personal level are not miserable at all. Why, though, together, collectively, are you all so miserable in this very simple thing, which you must admit and applaud?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u214	The news from the Bureau is not so good, Mr rustler. Time's up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u215	Wait a minute, Mr. President. The good news of the last few days, then, in conjunction with the budget under discussion, opens the door to a brighter tomorrow, not only for culture - which is an expensive, public, social good - but also for all other aspects of social and economic life, a tomorrow free of the suffering that has been accumulated by your catastrophic policy over the last 40 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, too. The Minister for Tourism has the floor, Mr. Helena Koudoura.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u217	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are here to discuss the 2017 budget. Its successful implementation will lead us to economic growth and social prosperity in our country, to the exit from the crisis. The country comes from a critical period in its long course to stabilise the economy and return to normality. Our Government completes the assessment of the Greek program and the debt relief has taken its way. Greece is now changing page. The national effort and the important steps we have taken are recognised globally. We restored the image of the country abroad, gained international confidence and strengthened the credibility of Greece worldwide. After many years Greece came out of isolation. This is demonstrated by recent international meetings at top and government level, the international leaders who visited our country with the most recent visit of the very important visit of the President of the United States, Barack Obama. The opposition chooses to ignore these successes and constantly undermine the government's work for the sake of micro-political purposes, without taking into account and without worrying that this undermines the country itself and the efforts of the Greek people. It operates in the same way in tourism, a sector that is a national capital and a lifelong force for the Greek economy and society. He tries to give false image and create misleading impressions. With sterile arguments he chooses the path of catastrophe rather than creatively contributing to this national effort on growth. Over the past two years, our government has led tourism to higher historical performances despite successive challenges and difficulties. This was neither a result of luck nor a juncture, but it is clearly due to the fact that for the first time we have designed and implemented national tourism policy in Greece. And our policy has clearly worked out. In 2015 we achieved a record of arrivals and revenues in a year of unprecedented difficulties, with two elections, with referendum, with political negotiations, conditions of political and economic suffocation, strong pressures by the institutions, with a continuous reproduction of a threat to grexit and with constant foreign attacks on the international image of the country. We reversed the picture with direct operational and communication policies that we started immediately and implemented with 24-hour continuous work. Accordingly, in 2016 the result we have brought, exceeded every expectation in a year of major difficulties in the general tourism environment and with constantly changing data in the wider Mediterranean and Europe area. We have stood vigilantly and a plan against geopolitical developments in the wider region, the refugee region, terrorism in the heart of Europe and in neighbouring countries, in the attempted coup in Turkey, in the referendum on Brexit. We have achieved a new increase of visitors by about one and a half million compared to the 2015 historical record and total international arrivals that will reach 27.5 million, since the cruise also has 20% increase. As far as the much-discussed revenues are concerned, we expect the final result of the year and we appreciate, on the basis of the information we have, that it will be much better than the forecasts that the publicity lights have seen lately. And just as it happened last year, the Cassandras will be disguised. For the first time, a national tourism policy was designed and implemented in Greece. For the first time, we sought and succeeded in extending the period from April to November. Following the high completeness of July - August, the months of September and October were the best months of almost all time in Greece. In many areas, hotels were first left open until the end of November. We opened up to new, foreign markets to attract visitors of high incomes and high travel costs. We have opened the Middle East with great success, China, South Korea. We have strengthened important traditional markets, such as America and strengthened the Russian market, which last year, because of their economic problems, faced a reduction in their exit for vacations from Russia. In addition to our traditional markets in Europe, we emphasised Poland, Romania, Serbia and we had increased visitor flows. We raised new Greek destinations. We have challenged and achieved, through tough negotiations, direct air support from many destinations to Greek, new and non-destinations, such as Kalamata, Skiathos, Actos, Samos. Today they have very high demand. And this spectacular development of incoming tourism is due to the fact that we are pursuing targeted actions and actions. We also supported our thematic tourism. A lot of work has been done so that we can have more products so that we can best support the development of our tourism product. We, as a Ministry, advertise, promote, project Greece as a globally attractive destination, offering genuine experiences of three hundred sixty-five days a year. Our supervised body, EOT, with the limited resources we had for 2016, as a body implementing this strategy, succeeded with targeted actions to enhance Greece's promotion and promotion on their foreign markets and to strengthen our country's tourist image. We have also given priority to creating a friendly environment for attracting and implementing new high-value tourist investments. This is reflected in the filing of dossiers, within 2016, at the competent Office, the EEAAPTE, forty-two new investment proposals, hotels and special tourist infrastructure. One hundred proposals concern plans for new hotels and existing more than three hundred beds in the categories of four and five stars. We have made a series of arrangements to improve, above all, the everyday life of tourist businesses. We solved time-consuming problems, overcoming bureaucratic obstacles and gave definitive solutions to permits for tourist accommodation, camping, ski resorts, climbing shelters, health facilities, rental companies and many other sub-sectors. We mobilise funds of more than EUR 300 million to support small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and new public tourism infrastructures through co-financed European programmes. State aid amounting to EUR 210 million will be directed through two very large programmes - the ESDP 2014-2020 - that we have designed to encourage existing small and medium-sized enterprises and to modernise them and to upgrade them, as well as to establish new ones. We are working on new regulations that will move forward immediately and enrich Greece's tourist map. We are preparing the institutional framework of the technical specifications for facilities for thermal treatment facilities, centres for thermal tourism, water therapy, and the framework of the technical and operational specifications for the operation of traditional hostels. We also move on to the redesign and modernisation of the system of the Register of Tourism Enterprises, the codification of tourist legislation, the completion of the new establishment plans of the Ministry and of the EOT to strengthen their services and support structures. Our priority in the next period is to make major changes to public tourism education. We received a downgraded public tourist training and found the Tour School closed. The Autonomous Organisation of OTEC also closed. That's why we need an integrated proposal, so that the Tour School can reopen, upgrade the Astere Schools, as well as the training provided to the eight public IEKs that we have in the tourism sector. Tourism is 20% of GDP. It offers about a million direct and indirect jobs. That is why we are making sure that we do everything possible to help in this direction in the development of the tourist product. We simplified licensing procedures, supported tourist businesses and protected them, making a dynamic contribution to the new law that comes from the Ministry of Finance for the dividend economy, for the illegal leases. We are trying to exploit and upgrade our services and quality in tourism with high education in human resources, connect professionals to the labour market. Over the past two years, we have laid firm foundations so that tourism can continue its development process. Tourism is a government priority and our Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, doubled advertising funds in 2017 to promote the country abroad and strengthen our international image. I would like to thank the regions, the local authorities, the chambers of commerce, the tourist institutions, the entire private sector, for the first time that we have worked so closely together and we are now effectively promoting tourism issues. And I would like to heartfully thank all the servants at the Ministry of Tourism for the struggle they give EOT, as well as my associates, the Hotel Chamber for everyday small and large battles for the development of tourism. In particular, I would like to thank all the co-legislative government ministers who support me on a daily basis and make a decisive contribution to giving immediate solutions to all the issues facing sensitive tourism. The Secretary-General of the World Tourism Organization, Mr Taleb Rifai, has repeatedly been involved in public positions in Greece as an example of a study - study case - for our successful management of these incredible crises that we have experienced in tourism over the last two years and for the fact that despite adversity we have achieved so high a performance. In conclusion, I would like to stress that success in tourism is a success for all of us. We have a vision, we have a plan, we have already achieved significant results and we are in the mood to achieve even higher targets in the years to come that come for the benefit of the Greek tourist product and our national economy. Tourism is a national case and it unites us. I invite you to vote on the 2017 budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u218	Mrs Marcus, an Independent MEP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government continues to bomb us with - what else? - good news, with cynicism, but also with the disarmament and vacant smile of the Prime Minister. After the ravaging, welcoming the President of America, and the inexhaustible revolutionary exercise in the idyllic for all kinds of tourists in Cuba, the shocking success of our allies of creditors, Mr Reggling more specifically, to which the government is preparing to give - what else? - The golden key to Maximus. The celebrations of the "objective" journalists on the state channel of YENED the other day actually exceeded every clasmine. The stricken debt now is a past - wake up, ladies and gentlemen - all thanks to the neoliberal partners of the Eurogroup. And, finally, a budget is also being tabled, which will contribute to the development of the country! The other one with Toto is going to tell us now? I should also like to pay tribute to the vigilant, revolutionary resistance of the condolence MPs who have put, to all of us in the opposition, glasses with the inconsistent resistance to neoliberal recipes imposed on us by bad creditors, but also on our fellow creditors. This budget is therefore submitted for a vote, with Mr Juliarakis saying that any reduction in taxes and expenditure will mean recourse to inextricable neoliberalism. On the contrary, the ordinary budget includes a significant increase in revenue of EUR 2.3 billion, of which EUR 1.1 billion from increased revenues of indirect and direct taxes. In fact, these are not just philosophical measures, but they will also bring growth, as Mr Drasakis says. But we certainly said that the cost cut is also neoliberal. That is why the government intends to reduce primary expenditure by 1.4 billion. This is all about us doing 4.5 billion in 2017, i.e. 2.5% of GDP. Are you going to tell me, why, could something else be done? Let's say that. No, in that context. After helping the country to self-destruct last year, after taxpayers lost 20 billion of the state's shares in the banks, after they threw 7 billion out of the European Central Bank's bonds profits in the trash, after charging the productive economy with capital controls and a bag of taxes, after telling the free professionals that what they knew to forget - that is, in other words, here we are doing serious capitalism rather than what everyone wants, after destroying exports and sending to the unscrupulous privatisations, since in the 2017 budget it wiped out the 1.3 billion supposed revenues from the European Central Bank, since... since it is today the responsible one. It is enough - listen - to send congratulations to the elected European President of Austria. Is there a mistake here? No mistake was made. It's just the government rubs its cynicism on the face of society without it. I'm going back to some of the budget elements. In the Public Investment Programme both revenue and expenditure are limited. However, any divergence in expenditure is expected to be covered by the national strand. I predict that the money at the end will not exist in the sense that the first practical application of the cut will be from the national component of expenditure. After all, the party army has a priority. Another issue is the primary surplus. To reach the 2017 surplus of 3.3 billion, despite growth in 2.7% and nominal GDP growth, measures of 4 billion will be needed. Harry Potter, Mr. Chakalotos in his red backpack. Privatisations, the reduction of expected revenues, the resolution of 2016 by one billion are transferred to expected revenues in 2017 by 2.1 billion compared to the preliminary draft. Wizard Merlin, Mr. Juliarakis. I'm crying for your students. The government, ladies and gentlemen, is the worst version of old-fashionedism. He does not care about the country completely because he does not believe in the state, he does not believe in the middle-class, he does not believe in the bourgeois institutions, he does not believe in the meaning of a country. That's why on the altar of getting a supposed political victory and making a narrative, he walks around like a turf with the bear, protesting that he managed something with the debt, binding the country for a decade, at least, with a difference of taxes and costs of about 3.5% of GDP. If it's not a pilgrimage to austerity, then what is it? But it is only too late to destroy the next government. Look, when government expenditure is 55% of GDP already, taxes must be as heavy as they are. Your Honour, Mr. Juliaraki, is that a quinineism? Wake up! You're Shoeble's partners. That's right. I say to the people clearly and directly this: the Eurogroup's earlier emerging agreement, resulting from the destruction that you have brought, such as the superstition, which you have gladly accepted, aims to undermine the country through the direct undermining of the next government, namely, the government of cooperation between all European forces, wherever they are. The vote of the simple analogy shows exactly that the closed circle of government is only interested in being present in the next parliament. You are dooming toward your rescue. That's the budget you brought today. One last thing for creditors, and in particular for Mr Moscovisi and our French friends. Your idea that SYRIZA is good, since he spends a budget of this kind and does the job, will become a boomerang for all of Europe, Mr Moscovici and Mr Olad. You played with the fire and Mr. Varoufakis showed you. Today you make the same mistake. You believe that the good student has forgotten his recent evil self and that you are passing measures as a left-wing government without reaction from the people. A parentheses here. Excuse me, Mr. and honourable Members of the Co-Population, it goes through my mind to ask you if that's annoying at all. How do you see it morally? Is it honoring you? Do you understand that? Do you think you don't understand? What's going on? I just ask you, who, as left-wingers, contemplates that there is supposedly your moral left advantage. I'm on it. The Greek people have realised that a large part has now been deceived and that changes need to be made - but that government despises - in education, in health, in welfare, in public administration, in entrepreneurship. He won't react to changes if he sees hope, honesty and responsibility. This dry budget, which, of course, and I am voting against with all my power, will become the beginning of your political end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u220	Mr. Papadopoulos has the floor. This time, he's gonna talk from the Step. Here, Mr. Papadopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr President. I really pre-empted her.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u222	Please, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Papadopoulos speaks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u223	...we're policying our political future. Ma'am, your seat isn't yours. Give it to the Potami, because you lose your chair and haggle it, so you can have a future after that. Because the river from what you understand is not...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u224	You're a government officer, it's not me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u225	So you're politicizing yourself. Hi, I'm glad to meet you. Now let's go on as well. Says the Opposition that we destroyed agricultural production, we taxed, we taxed. How can you, while destroying agricultural production, export agricultural products and get a 15% increase? After you've done it all black, shit, how can you get a raise? So something good we did, we didn't do anything bad, and the evidence shows it. You have reached the point of saying that farmers will pay a billion taxes last year. Previously, Mr Jellonis said 500 million taxes. Let's see what farmers paid for in taxes in 2016. They declared agricultural income, according to data, five hundred sixty-six tax declarations and paid a tax of EUR 175.800,000, and the advance. Where did the five hundred, with 175 million or 1 billion, when you said in the rural movement that we would pay a tax? So much lies? Can't you stand the truth? Tax raid the 175 million along with the advance tax payment? Let's see what's going on, 'cause he's got it all the time. With our own tax, if we take the evidence, they show here that 89%, i.e. five hundred sixteen thousand farmers who declared agricultural income, have a net income of up to 5,000 euros. What does that mean? With our own tax, coming from 8,000 to 9,000 euros tax free. It is, in other words, free from connected, balancing and greening at 12,000 euros. He's got organic farming, organic livestock, whatever he gets from the outside. The balancings are on the outside. That's all on the outside. Environmental programmes, nitrates from outside. Hey, how's this percentage going to go up? In other words, we should not say numbers, because you are also talking about them in the institutions. They tell you, what are they doing here? A little respect for the truth and for the farmers. With this year's figures, if these farmers are supposed to have about the same incomes, they will have a tax refund. That's why the Minister came out and said we're going to have a tax refund, because we've paid the 100% advance. So much of the farmers will get back tax and they won't pay taxes. It is therefore also abstracted that the vast majority of farmers will pay taxes. And here you lie, and even fat lies. Now we're going to the OGA contributors. You're talking about triple. In the system as it is today, I am in the third category and I pay 1,100 euros. Twice what does it mean? That I'll pay 3,000 euros. Don't you think? That's what you mean, isn't it? Again according to the data, tax says I will pay 20% in 2022 - not now, 2022 - for insurance and 7% for health. So I've got an income of 5,000 euros, how much am I gonna pay?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u226	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u227	Oh, that's not the case! Did you see how things aren't like that? So there is no such increase as you say. Of course, the person with an income of 10,000 or 15 000 will pay more. We're going to this system that's in place. I now have three hundred acres and I pay 1,200 euros. One who has fifty acres and is in the third category, do you know how much he pays? He pays 1,200 euros, too. Is it honest? Is it right that we all pay the same? Shouldn't there be a rating? Shouldn't they pay more? So, where's the absurdity we've done? We really did a reform right. Depending on the incomes to pay. So, with the tax figures here, the five hundred thousand farmers who declare an income of 5,000 euros will pay 20% and the 7% 110 euros a month. In 2022 I or anyone who declares an income of 5,000 euros will pay the month 110 euros for insurance and treatment in the OGA. Where did you see it three times? Say, where did you see it? So, this is such a big lie? I can't understand it! I can give you more details and more information. With our own tax-insurance, we manage to get the farmer a decent pension. Now it's 360 euros. In 2026, according to what New Democracy and PASOK voted for, the State's contribution to pension will be abolished and the farmer will retire what he has paid, and what will he get from us? He'll get the 384 euros plus the ones he paid for. He'll get a more dignified pension. Where did you see her again here on the tax raid?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u228	Why, Mr. Papadopoulos, are they getting ready to go on the road?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u229	You're lying, Mr. Kelles, to the farmers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u230	Everything is perfect, that is, for farmers!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u231	Of course we're doing great. We're on the left side. You're right. That's our difference, what do we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u232	What's left is good?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u233	To take you down, comrade Kelles. At the old cost, what would I take, you know? Have you figured out what I'd retire? You haven't calculated it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u234	Tell us, is the tax rate reduced?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u235	Mr. Kelles,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u236	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u237	Do you give the oil to the farm?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u238	I have the evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u239	You spoke for ten minutes, Mr. Kelles.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u240	I didn't talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u241	What about me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u242	You, yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u243	He's asking me, what do I do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u244	I'll answer you. Who's gonna pay more?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u245	That's surrealism.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u246	It is the sixty thousand farmers and the ones who will enter the system. They'll pay more. Of course they'll pay. They'll pay those who have more than others. They're counting on sixty thousand. They'll pay more. The five hundred sixteen thousand won't pay anything. Take the hammer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u247	Let's see.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u248	Let's see it, Kella. Another lie you're telling and the comrades here say so. You say that 24% of VAT is an increase in costs. Are you all right? VAT is a neutral tax. I pay him, I take him back. I'm the one who's invoiced.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u249	...they'll pay for the ESS.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u250	Is that an increase? Is it an increase in costs? After I pay it, I pay it, and when I invoice the wheat, the cotton, I collect it. So I'm equilibrium. What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u251	Mr. Papadopoulos, the rest in Thessaly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u252	What in Thessaly, Mr. President? They're lying to us here. That's where they're lying. They say things that are inconsistent. What about us leaving them? Are we done now? Hey, what are these things?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u253	How long ago was the level?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u254	Quiet, Mr. Kelles.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u255	Have a seat. Two minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u256	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u257	We solved the grazing issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u258	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u259	Quiet, Mr. Kelles.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u260	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u261	Comrade, I have the floor now. They know I won't answer, don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u262	Quiet! They're also students in the gallery and you give a bad example.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u263	The students are listening. Dialogue is done. That's democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u264	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u265	Comrade, please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u266	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u267	Quiet, we said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u268	We voted for the law on cooperatives, for the solidarity economy. We voted on the law on investments. You said: 'What investments?'
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u269	Are you laughing, Minister? The Minister's laughing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u270	I'm here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u271	We prepared organic farming for 550 million. We're ready.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u272	Mr. Papadopoulos,
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u273	Please. They're interrupting me all this time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u274	Let Mr. Apostle say something. He won't have...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u275	We have the FEK, which we made for the productive reconstruction of the countryside.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u276	Your time's up. No more, Mr. Papadopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u277	In any case, Mr President, I have been interrupted several times. It is a very serious matter, and what I want to say is that we have all the guarantees to make productive reconstruction. Lies have short feet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u278	Good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u279	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u280	What do you want, Mrs. Marcus?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u281	I want the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u282	But you spoke of the SYRIZA MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u283	I want the floor on personal grounds. I made a political position and talked in general.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u284	Say, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u285	Mr President, I have made a political position. Anyone who disagrees with my political position should speak politically. It is cheap and vulgar to have personal controversy in the finale on an issue that Mr Papadopoulos does not care about. Many times, believe me, it is far more difficult for a parliamentarian to take the decision and leave a party than to sit and vote what they bring him, so that he will not be removed from the party's lists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u286	All right, Mrs. Marcus.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u287	Can I answer that, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u288	Let it go, it's over. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, forty-eight students and students and three teachers from the Kyparissia Messinis High School (Second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The next speaker from New Democracy has the floor. Mr. Adriane, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u289	Thank you, Mr President. If the farmers heard the previous colleague, as he says, is not there and as if they had no problem. It is as if there are no problems, and the agricultural sector is enjoying and going through very well, without any problems, without having the problems of your policy, Mr President, with 24% VAT - which is one fact - on farmland, on fertilisers, on animal feed, on increases in contributions, on the problems which most producers have this year, for example, which will have little or even zero income - if the Minister knows so, because we have repeatedly put it in the hands of non-polluting. Also, while there was flowering and this year was the year to produce oil, this was not because of the weather. Likewise, the torch that hit the olivefruit to a large extent. So the damage to oil producers, as to other producers, is great, and this should not be concealed and we should not look at situations. Of course, the lie has short feet, and that applies especially to you. We are therefore discussing these days - since yesterday - the budget for SYRIZA - ANEL, which reveals without alibi the negative effects of government policies applied to the economy and society and the absence of a target, strategy and perspective for the future. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, two years later, not one of your grand promises took place. We leave the tearing and the abolition of the memorials, as you brought even heavier memorials and measures. You promised the thirteenth pension to bring new reductions and abolish the EKT, you promised a minimum wage of EUR 751 and not only did you reduce it further, but you made flexible and black work a norm. Not only did you not make the lives of the Greeks better, but you also added new unscrupulous burdens to the citizens' backs with your new achievement and with the further burden on households of EUR 9 billion, with increases in taxes and contributions and new pension cuts. We have already heard the Minister responsible, who described unemployment with such numbers as you really think you are not in Greece. With your tragic handling, then, you turned the country back, at a time when we should have been able to go ahead. Not only have you eliminated the important steps taken by 2014, thanks to the heavy, of course, sacrifices by the Greeks, but you have charged the country with an additional cost of 100 billion. You are now coming to talk about short-term measures, debt, of course, necessary as such, but not only do they cover the damage that you have caused, but also bring new painful measures, with budgetary targets that will remain high for several years after 2018. But it seems that you don't care, as you know that you won't be at the wheel of the country then. So who will pay the bride, according to the budget figures you sign? They are the unemployed, the employees, the pensioners, the professionals, the farmers, the young scientists who have not yet left home. What's your budget? You are budgeting EUR 437 million in VAT, a tax which unfairly affects the weakest, 422 million euros from increasing taxes on oil, and you are even more burdening the movement of citizens, transport, household heating and production. You are also giving Greek farmers one more blow, and they are barely surviving in a high-cost tornado, low-price producers and continuously new burdens, from a state which, instead of helping him, makes him stronger. You increase the tax on beer and wine, in two of the few domestic products with export dynamics in the years of the crisis, you have imposed a residence tax on hotels and you have abolished the reduced VAT on the islands, while tourism needs to develop and stimulate the international competitiveness of our product. New taxes, therefore, amounting to EUR 2.6 billion, that is to say another ENPI that falls into the backs of the weak. That's how you understand social justice. You abolished the EKT, you further reduced pensions, even worsened the internal attitude of payments, what you were called to manage, worse than you received it two years ago, such as the health sector, with the situation in the hospitals of the country, health centres and public health in general. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, and with this budget you are shown to be caught in an ideal vicious cycle of overtaxation. You do not even care that public debts due to private individuals, from EUR 75 billion, which was in 2015, reached 91.5 billion in September 2016. You do not care that, for the first time in 2016, the companies that closed were more than those that opened up, which for the first time flexibly - and we all know what this term means to workers - are more than full-time jobs. I'm going through education. We expect to see if the current Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs will continue in the footsteps of his predecessor. If he will continue to devaluate the work of the public school, considering excellence to be reciprocity, if he will also try to impose reasonable minor effort, condemning talented children to moderate and resignation. So you saw the study, the PISA survey, which is an international evaluation system of the OECD and does these studies every three years, which has ranked Greek students. It's a shame, it's not worth Greece. That is why we must all look together, it must concern us, and you, of course, are ruling, but also us. Since the matter of education is a national one, we must see with due seriousness whether the current Minister of Education insists on restoring the logic of 1980 to the Greek universities, whether it will continue to be substantially indifferent to vocational education, the linking of vocational schools with the real needs of the market and the development potential of local communities, whether to address the urgent needs and problems that are becoming more acute in the crisis, such as positions at the children's stations and the exclusion of a large number of pupils with special needs from access to education.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u290	Your time's up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u291	I want you to give me a minute, Mr President, as you have given the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u292	I've already given you one minute to be precise.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u293	Wait a minute, Mr President, I'll be done. So if it continues the micropolitical attack on the Church, which we all know how many and important it has offered our nation and continues to offer, especially during the years of the crisis, exclusively to create false dividing lines between the Greeks. We in the New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, firmly believe that the direction the country needs is towards stabilisation, reconstruction, development, healing the wounds of the crisis. We, unlike the government majority, who increasingly seems to be going to the unknown without compass, pouring more and more weight into the backs of the Greeks, have a concrete targeting, will and also policies that can lead the country to growth and to the creation of productive jobs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u294	After the compass, the keyboard has been saved.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u295	We are therefore voting against the budget for overtaxation and recession, stressing the need for the country to change its mind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u296	Thank you, too. Mr. George Ursouzidis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u297	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today we are voting on the budget for 2017. It is the second budget drawn up by the SYRIZA and ANEL government, a cooperation with a single objective: the absolute respect of the battle of Greek citizens who trusted us in the rule of the country because he was irritated because he disgusted with the behaviour of the previous governments. Really first. We are closing two years with the responsibility that the Greek people have given us to run with honesty and wisdom. Two years without suspicion, without a sign of an economic scandal for the first time in the modern history of the place. That is the truth, and our people know it. Really second. As a normal development of the unreasonable behaviour of the policies implemented in the past decades, from 1974 to 2010, the total catastrophe came. The regime of artificial prosperity, the deception of the Greek people by the local and foreign economic rulers, had an end date. The lies are suddenly over, the loan has been cut off, as have the benefits of obtaining consciences. Grandpa Savvas, a refugee from the Bank, said: "The debt comes from a raft at home. Then he opened doors and windows. It does not come out anymore.’ This simple proposal with enormous importance has never been taught by the reputable verbalists of the political system. But, alas, they never heard of it in their childhood. How to hear her, how much more to inspire her. The lenders on their part had no reason to worry, since the "law of power" of the late Papanoutsos had well studied it. Grandpa also said: "If you want to get the other man's fortune, borrow him and lend him back. At some point you will take everything from him." This is how we have come to the times of the great crisis that is plagued by the country and, in a completely poor and miserable economic environment, we have been called upon to fight the recovery of the country. The long-standing economic crisis has led people to despair and the economy to suffocation. At this very juncture we have been called upon to respond, to give the people of the market the opportunity to be active again, to return. We gave this opportunity to the hundred-dollar law. I would remind you that this law was termed a unilateral action. It still applies, of course, to those who stand. To achieve debt regulation, so that we can gain access to the money markets. That was the objective and we had to vote for measures that we did not believe, which were indeed of a collective nature. It seems that the sacrifices of the Greek people and the cry of the "no" of the peoples of Europe at last found ears. At the recent Eurogroup meeting, a ray of light appeared. Debt has been considered - as is indeed - unsustainable and has had to be regulated so that there can be hope for the other peoples of Europe as well. I am very proud that the Greek people were at the forefront of demanding this self-evident request. The objective, as reflected in the draft budget report, is firstly to maintain the budgetary balance in order to complete the recovery of the country's credibility and to allow for the exit from the financial adjustment programme. Secondly, fair sharing of costs of adjustment between citizens and a fair distribution of benefit from the coming recovery. In 2017, it ensures people who really fail to meet the basic requirements of life a sum of EUR 760 million, involving two hundred and fifty thousand households living in poverty. A further EUR 300 million in the area of health, education and social protection and another EUR 100 million in the first home law that concerns people who have really missed and cannot meet the demands of life, but not everyone. Those who really owe it are the people who really missed in the years of the crisis. Pension is a huge issue, for which we were also called upon to vote on a law, which was imposed by things due to the unreasonable use of funds that had been feeding this poor insurance system since the time of Spraus. It is well known that the results of this behaviour, which have been excessive over the next generations and have made insurance unsustainable. We have cut - and well we have done - the multiple pensions of EUR 7,000-8, we have reduced them to EUR 3,000 - that is the cap from 2017 - and the high pensions at EUR 2,000. We had finally to get rid of the unacceptable, dangerous and populist behaviour of all the previous governments, who, with their policies, restored social security by redistributing the future income of the next generations. The same applies to the benefits and expenses of the Ministries, which are subject to considerable cutbacks in expenditure. A few words about the rural one. As far as the taxation of farmers is concerned, we have introduced the term 'primarily a farmer' and we have tightened him to enjoy the privileges of those who are actually farmers. The calculation of the cost of production of the employees of the members of the agricultural family in some way has been settled. Of course, the seasonal workers were a problem that we could not deal with. Maybe we also made mistakes. However, it will be settled immediately, because in many areas this expenditure is not yet included in farmers' expenses. The Farmer's Banking Card is now a fact and it concerns expenditure during the production process. Finally, the duty-free limit for main-professional farmers is something that is first introduced in our country. We need to take care of insurance contributions. Indeed, this excessive increase from one situation to another wants a smoother transition. I think that the tax exemption should also apply to the determination of taxable income. Increases can arise, but logical, in which citizens can respond. In conclusion, I would like to say a few words about PSI, the involvement of the private sector. What is being said here has been said too many times, but has never been clarified, it has not been heard clearly, when and where the PSI is being imposed. The PSI is imposed on countries under bankruptcy in order to avoid the worst, that is to say, to avoid rules of destruction and plundering. This situation in the country is well known who brought it and who have had to go ahead with the abolition of the entire reserve of the funds and other collective bodies, such as chambers. For the record, I would like to mention that for the first time in 1990 the term PSI for states which have restructured public debt, such as Russia, Turkey, Brazil, Ecuador and Argentina, became known. Really, since some people are so defending it in this Chamber, would they dare to talk again about the closure of insurance funds? If anyone ever claims it, can they apply it? No, because the available resources are no longer available, and unfortunately the debt has remained unsustainable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u298	So do we. Mr. Pappas has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u299	When we received the invitation from the Committee on Foreign and Security on the visit to the outermost islands of the Megisti complex, we responded immediately, because we believe that national issues do not have party divisions. The Greeks must be united. At a time when the Turkish threat is ahead of the gates and the question of our national sovereignty is before the gates there are no small parties. We strongly protested about the renunciation of the Aegean, when we expressed our opinion in the Senate Hall months ago. Then we were attacked by fifty SYRIZA MPs, left-wing and pro-Natural, against me and competitor Cassidiari, so that the guard enters among us to protect us from these angry 50-symbol MPs. Then the New Democracy condemned us and denounced that by oral Dora Bakoyannis we did not respect democratic customs. Now, yesterday, when we responded institutionally to the invitation we received and visited Rus, the island of Stronglis, the island of Megisti, namely, Kastelorizo, and we took strength and moral from the inhabitants and our soldiers who guarded Thermopylae, the very false right of the New Democracy and the parasites, the companions, that is, the KKE and Potami, condemned the position of Golden Dawn again. Whatever we do, we will have the party of the political parties to us. As a fantasy cane the mayor of the war against nationalism and the Greeks, the neoliberal leader of the New Democracy, the party that should normally be called "new terrorism", i.e., new anti-popular and commemorative terrorism. Now, with regard to the substantive, memorial and tax budget for the cuts, I have to say that it has so far been customary to vote on the part of all parties on national defence expenditure, usually other than the JRC. We will not follow the mandatory attitude of the other parties, and we will symbolically vote against the expenditure on defence, because we believe that we are dealing with another Memorandum of Understanding, yet another attempt to make things operational, while the path you are following is a catastrophic one. In fact, the budget leads to a vertical reduction in defensive expenditure, as creditors have been imposing in recent years, and the Memorandum of Submissive Governments do obediently carry out these orders of foreign lenders, be they right-wing or left-wing. We are voting against, because this is a budget that leads to disarmament of our country. We are voting against because these are happening when Ankara raises the issue of the renegotiation of the Lausanne Treaty and the fears of a hot episode in the Aegean Sea and of the country's mutilation are increasing. We are talking about this budget, when SYRIZA celebrates an agreement, namely that it achieves a debt write-down, when it has sold out everything for ninety years and says that we will have a debt write-off in forty-four years, that is when Tsipras is eighty-six years old and many of us here are star dust. Full "false" by Alexis Tsipras. It was no accident what we used to say, 'Chipralus'. In earlier times, before judgment, defence spending annually exceeded EUR 7 billion. We arrived in 2017 at EUR 475 million from the 598 million, which has had since 2016. On the other hand, you are giving 64 million for the reception centres for illegal immigrants. All this, when the Turks have six times the army of Greece, fifteen times the budget, at least on the papers, because it is much more for equipment and a defensive industry, which, if it continues at that rate, in 2030 will have reached the French war industry in production power, it will have exceeded Germany and Britain. Does the Prime Minister take this into account with his financial staff? It does not receive it because it lacks basic qualities and principles to be the Prime Minister of a free and prosperous country and of a self-sufficient and prosperous people. Even the position of the body of the Prime Minister before the Memorial of the Unknown Soldier bears witness to it. Even the reference and parallelism he made with the Cuban revolution of Castro and the National Liberation Revolution of 1821 on his recent journey to Cuba, after his meeting, of course, with the outgoing African-American President Barak Obama. For the Chameleon Chief of SYRIZA, it appears that from Barack Obama to Fidel Castle ideological and political distance is insignificant, a memorial road, as the Secretary General of the Golden Dawn, Nikolaos Michaliakos, quoted in his article in the newspaper that was released today. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr President, perhaps a little more. So let me explain something to the Prime Minister. The Revolution of 1821 is the only nationalist revolution in world history, and its purpose was dual, for national independence and social justice and not to be obscure with these parallelisms. Perhaps here I am wrong, because the rule says that half-heartedness is worse than wickedness. A nation, ladies and gentlemen, wants vision to survive and progress. What do you offer for this purpose? Globalisation, multiculturalism, ethnicism, pan-religion, gay parade, eating life, consumerism and abnormal patterns. You made our youth, the future of the nation, a flexible minced meat, as prophetically stated by the late Archbishop Christoulos. We, without fear, with prudence, with political maturity but with national passion, say what you cannot or even you do not want to say. I read you the appropriate nationalist response Tayyip Erdogan received through twitter, in a post I made through the Greek Air Force helicopter before it lands in Kastelorizo. "Tayp pasha Erdogan, find out that the borders of the heart of the Greek nationalists do not stop at the band of Megistis, which we are heading for at the moment, but at the Kingdom, in Bankouda, in Eski Sehir, in Rizokarpaso, Greece." In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to address the political leadership of the country, right and left, Collapsation and Opposition, and say - I will say this, as one of our instant forefathers would say - 'Greeks want, but' and I will add 'Smart and capable'. Such Greeks. It's fatal for our country that you don't have any of the properties I mentioned. You, if you want to stay rampant in the new economic monumental occupation and become a radar in the new pluralism that comes, we Greek nationalists do not want and will not become a radar. We call it a decisive and bronze 'no'! Wake up Greeks, don't be afraid of them and don't be fooled. Show your strength, Greek, with the Golden Dawn, which is the Greeks' national resistance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u300	Mr Sarakiotis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u301	Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the state budget for the financial year 2017 finds our country in the middle of a difficult route to the exit from the crisis and the vicious circle of frugality. The 2017 budget comes to highlight in the most emphatic way the ideological differences between the Government and New Democracy, whose criticism verifies the neoliberal nature of its proposals and recalls that SYRIZA has a sacred duty to defend the acquired Greek people at the levels of the social state, labour rights, social justice. The 2017 budget is coming to reaffirm the placement of the Greek economy in secure tracks. The fictitious and deficiting budgets are now past, giving their place in the consolidation of budgetary stability and confidence in the markets. The main objective is the development of the Greek economy, in a realistic context at all times. What guarantees the achievement of the objectives? Their excess in 2016. In the last two quarters of 2016, GDP was developed, starting to grow at 2.7% and 3.1% for the next few years. The development sign and reliability in the implementation of the budget contribute not only to the recovery of numbers, but also to the recovery of trust between both foreign investors and our own Greek fellow citizens. Let us not forget, after all, that the economy is based on psychology and mutual trust. The repayment of outstanding debts amounting to 3.5 billion, the liquidation of all outstanding debts for the coming months and the gradual relaxation of capital controls are the Government's moves to establish this confidence relationship. For their part, our fellow citizens seem to respond, giving breath to the Greek banking system by returning their deposits. Only in October, 1,2 billion euros were returned, while the influx is lasting in the last five months. Should this positive path not be supported by further strengthening confidence? Even if it is not a government success, but is it something accidental, as it sounds many times from the headquarters of Officer Response, does anyone doubt that it is a positive step? How many, then, do you support this step when Mr Mitsotakis refers to the Greek companies in Bulgaria as an example of extroversion? Is that what you want, gentlemen of the New Democracy? The Bulgarianization of the Greek economy? These companies left because of your time-consuming political choices. They left indebted, persecuted by the old party system. Is this an example of an extroversion? It wasn't their choice, gentlemen. You have extinguished them and now you are congratulating them. Ladies and gentlemen, the forecast for growth at 2.7% is accompanied by a significant increase in employment, an increase in private consumption of 1.8% at constant prices and a gross fixed capital formation of 1.9%. Actual exports and imports of goods and services will move upwards, while inflation will show an increase of 0.6%. The rise in inflation comes to validate the decline in unemployment, as the two indicators are known to be inversely proportional. Only the governments of the PASOK and the New Democracy have succeeded in abolishing all macroeconomic logic, at the same time creating unemployment and accuracy. Positive indicators should not make us reassure. We've just begun to see light in the tunnel, but the truth is we're not out of it yet. It takes effort and commitment to the objectives. It is necessary to implement the budget in order to reduce the impact of the crisis on the weaker ones as soon as possible. Our conviction is that the short-term debt measures taken a few days ago, together with the resumption of our credibility, are already developing a positive climate for the Greek economy. The budget to be voted has a threefold target: it consolidates budgetary equilibrium, leads to the growth and reduction of unemployment and sets a framework for social justice, as regards the cost of fiscal adjustment and the distribution of the benefit of recovery. In this last point, our chaotic difference with the neoliberalism of the New Democracy is condensed. Under the current conditions of fiscal suffocation, we have established and financed the social income of solidarity, with 760 million for two hundred and fifty thousand Greek households. We have strengthened the social budget for health, education and welfare structures by 300 million. We have created a grid of protection of the first house of 100 million for vulnerable households, which have appealed to the Katseli law. On the other hand, the New Democracy is coming to defend Mr Samaras' success story. What success story, I wonder. What predicted a primary surplus of 4.5%? How would you, ladies and gentlemen, achieve such a primary surplus? What would be the fate of the social state? SYRIZA's government has reduced budgetary adjustment measures by 5.4 billion, in agreement with smaller primary surpluses. You are coming again, remembering the Zapia, to promise great tax relief, which touches four billion. The so-called spending review, i.e. the cost overview, has already moved from our Government and we have a full picture of the real basis of your promises. The 4 billion will, as you say, be cut from a sum of 6 billion, which is directed at medicines, heating, materials for schools, and various other consumables. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] Do you remember your government practices of shutting down hospitals and schools? Are you going to do that or are you going to cut off wages and pensions again? Are you going to move on to new redundancies? Maybe both of them together. Unfortunately, it doesn't surprise me. That's our difference, then. You're accusing us of not cutting costs. How are we going to reduce expenditure when it comes to the core of the social state, built by workers with their sacrifices? We must understand that in fact, due to the prolonged recession, waste is no longer the norm. The further cut in expenditure shall be equal to a reduction in vital funds. If we cut expenditure, who will be damaged? Education, health and benefits to the citizens will be affected. The Greek economy in 2017 will show growth of 2.7% and a primary surplus of 2%. In 2016 he began to stabilise and disguise the petty, poor, but, above all, wrong forecasts of counterpopulation. In 2017 we will take the step further, aiming at a definitive exit from the crisis. The 'left parentheses' eventually turns into a memorial parentheses. He'll never forgive us for getting it. It is incomprehensible that there was a faster exit route and even a social sign. I therefore vote for the budget above all for the vindication of the sacrifices of the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u302	Thank you, Mr. Saraciotis. Mr Constantine Tsiaras has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u303	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, like every year, we are discussing the draft budget for next year, perhaps through several different circumstances, if we consider what is happening today in relation to the past. The basic confrontation, at least in my opinion, has now overcome the concept of politics or even ideological confrontation and now stands in a very specific field, in the sense of common sense. I say this because, if we look at the cold reality, in a very specific way, we will find that the government was simply forced for this three-year period to take measures of EUR 9 billion from 2015 to 2018, through an inappropriate, third memorandum. Do you want to see where the reality was at the end of 2014? The economy was running at particular rates of growth, which are not present today. For 2015 it was 2.9% the forecast, while for 2016 it would be 3.7%. The State would have received around 11 billion euros, i.e. 2 billion more than the government's additional measures for the three years 2015-2018. But let's see what the extra cost of two years of SYRIZA - ANEL government is. It is EUR 5.4 billion for the new recapitalisation of banks, EUR 6 billion lost from the return of profits from Greek bonds and, in addition, the discussion on the fourth memorandum, to continue with the participation of the International Monetary Fund in the programme, obviously with new measures and new charges for Greek citizens, without even now showing light on the tunnel, since Greece, in general, cannot go out on the markets with interest rates currently compared only with those of Korea and Pakistan and, of course, with its competitiveness having collapsed lower than Namibia. Moreover, the banking system remains destabilised and hostage to capital controls, having lost EUR 40 billion in bank deposits. I heard the majority rapporteur yesterday talking about the reduction of bank deposits, putting as reference time in February 2015. Well, at some point we have to be very serious. Everyone knows when the money left the Greek banks. Suffice to see what has happened since December, in view of the political prevalence of SYRIZA, so that one can reach concrete conclusions. So since the country was led to a complete paralysis of the economy, the government is coming today and celebrates debt regulation. But what is the truth about debt regulation? There is - and we all know - no write-down of nominal debt. It is indeed an amendment to the improvement of the International Monetary Fund scenario for its service by 2060. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know what time we're talking about? Do you have the impression that many of us -- and I'm not saying it with a macabre mood -- will we live in 2060? On the other hand, however, there was a choice for the government to mortgage the entire Greek property for ninety years. Now for a few dozen years, obviously, we won't even talk about it. What was the reward for all this? Not 2.5% surplus, but 3.5% over the medium term, in fact, if we want to be honest, 3 billion euros per year. That's the reality. Of course, a budget cut that the government is preparing to sign. In any case, what is the final target? It is that if everything evolves according to the favourable scenario of the budget, your budget, Greece will return where it was at the end of 2014. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a general confession that this budget is undevelopmental. He's anti-developmental, because he's taxly unfair. The income tax of natural persons is projected to increase by EUR 1.2 billion. Another so, of course, will also increase insurance contributions, which no longer reflect insurance contributions, but an extra income tax, and will increase by EUR 1.3 billion in 2017. Of course, this increase is a matter of concern to farmers, to young scientists and, of course, to free professionals who, with the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, are still professionals, but obviously not free at all. The indirect taxes, which are considered socially fairer - I was listening to the previous colleague saying that there is the social person of SYRIZA - are increasing by EUR 1.3 billion, due to the increase in VAT, the taxation of energy products, pay-TV and mobile telephony, and, of course, the tax on beer, coffee and cigarettes. Thus, the ratio of indirect taxes to direct taxes is deteriorating, for the benefit of indirect taxes and obviously at the expense of social justice. This is the great debate that is taking place on the social face of the SYRIZA party. It is the debate that results from two million and a half thousand pensioners seeing real reductions, both from the reduction of tax and from the increase in tax withholding, both from the increase in the health contribution to the EEAS from 4% to 6%, but also from the serious reduction in supplementary pensions by about 40% that the country's pensioners see. Moreover, three hundred and fifty thousand beneficiaries of the EPC see it disappear and, of course, all new pensioners under the Katrugalos law will have a cut in pensions by 25% to 30%. Ladies and gentlemen, in this budget and in this debate it is clear that the government is putting the cart in front of the horse, because it provides for an increase - it is supposed to be for the budget - private consumption by 1.8%. In order to increase, however, consumption - and I am returning to common sense - new jobs need to be created, which will be made through investment. In order for there to be investment, however, ladies and gentlemen, the confidence that has been disturbed by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government must be restored and, of course, it seems clear that there can be no present at this time. To restore this confidence, then, there must be a political change, which will clarify the blurred investment and business landscape that has been established in our country lately. Incentives are needed, support for entrepreneurship is needed. It requires a reduction in taxes that crush economic activity with a similar reduction in expenditure, in order to keep the country's budgetary balance on the rails. We have a clear view. It has been expressed by the party president, Mr. Mitsotakis. There is a concrete plan to get out of the crisis, which is summarised in a specific tripartite, 'less tax - less spending - support for entrepreneurship'. This is an absolutely opposite approach to what you are trying to do. Of course, you realise that the New Democracy does not vote for the budget through this logic. To get back to what I was forced to say earlier, since, ladies and gentlemen, you cannot drag the cart of the real reforms that you are asked for, you better get off of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u304	Thank you, Mr. Chiara. Mr Christos Karayannides has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u305	Thank you, Mr President. The truth is - to borrow, to get a little from my previous colleague this conversation - that in 2014 you were going very quickly to the duel and that is why you decided to escape from the government, switching the presidential election in December, as if you were not due. Since everything was going great, I imagine you could go by March, to make a presidential election then and prove that everything was going great.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u306	What do you think? So you didn't shoot us?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u307	Please, no questions critical!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u308	In addition, however, these data exist and the reality is this. Let's just put her aside. I would expect this criticism from the JRC, which is right to do so and why it has a different political viewpoint, but also why it has not governed it. A party, however, that in the last forty years it has been changing with the PASOK and has sank the state, the country, in 2010, I think it must be more careful in its criticisms and assessments. Because GDP has not been lost in the last two years by 25%, and unemployment has not been swept away at 27%. That's why only the number I'm going to talk to. I won't say any other number, 'cause people get confused, they go crazy when they hear only numbers. For the 27% of unemployment, which you slain within five years, will you say you have failed? To do a word and see where you failed, what we can do, what you would do better, to have a productive conversation. To destroy industrial production in the last six years, which is not even the same as in World War II, is it not compared, or even with World War II, to say something? In order to agree that you have failed, that you too are looking to improve, that you have some solutions and that we also discuss your own solutions. With this introduction, therefore, I would like to go a little bit on national defence issues, because you have not even spoken there. Between 1997 and 2006, 26 billion have been allocated for armaments programmes. We're talking about 26 billion! What happened to those 26 billion? Has there been any account by the then Ministers of National Defence, from the then governments? What did the 26 billion offering? What have they offered to the country, in its defence position of 26 billion? Of what was bought in it alone in the decade - I do not want to go ahead and talk about either before or after - how much are they working today? What maintenance costs we've taken today, can you tell me? They are fifteen different types of military helicopters. Which country buys with this practice? Do you know how you were buying armaments? Like getting into a supermarket and having no idea what I'm gonna get, and whatever's glowing on me, and whatever's in my pocket to get it, I'm gonna go get it. That was your policy. Is that why you're gonna apologize? Then we criticize why the current budget of the Ministry of National Defence has arrived at 477 million. Because there are no other things, and to a certain extent, because we cannot spend billions of money on it and have no effect on it. Only fourteen cases have been in court for the three years 1998-2001. Do you know how much money these fourteen cases are? But you have the courage - because it is courageous - to come here to criticise. I'm talking about national defense, I'm not talking about the whole thing. As far as defence industries are concerned, who is responsible for their destruction? Only one, the Greek Defence Systems, have a debt of 650 million. Did SYRIZA create it? For those people who have been unpaid - and are today unpaid for two months, but have they in the past been unpaid for up to eight months - the SYRIZA is to blame? For these issues have you found the courage - which you are now finding and criticising - to whip a word? Do you want me to tell you one more number? In 2009 alone, 2,200,000,000 were given. Why do I mention 2009? Because it's the year when the tumble starts. "We've fed" 2,200,000 to arms dealers. What excuse? With the well-known justification of nationalism, which is the tool of every fraud and the tool of every arms dealer, to exploit this story and sell to the Indian beads and fake gold. That's what you're doing. You're going to say forty years we've reached national defense at this level, and why right now we can barely meet the financial needs of the Ministry of National Defence and do a small maintenance. You won't say anything, because you have absolutely nothing to say. What about what's going on as an effort to develop the national defence industry, did you find anything to say? You found out that her vision wasn't right. Instead of considering what you have done and hung on it all these years, you have no need to say a productive thing, a prosthetic, that we can together agree on how to develop the Greek defence industry, but you only say it will be destroyed. But she's already ruined. In this debate, then, which will take place these days, the criticism of your past must make you more careful about what you say about tomorrow, because you have been tested. You have brought budgets and made agreements, which for 2017-2018-2019 and you were talking about 4.5% growth. You signed this deal. Is that why you're gonna say something? Taxation hurt you! You, who have, for five years, been exterminating the taxation of businesses, the professions, the public and private employees and pensioners, have not noticed that? Yesterday you came to the country? You do not understand that hundreds of thousands of businesses have been closed down to the year 2010-2015? Or is it a lie? The Capital Controls have hurt you! Your turning the banks into a "job" and in December 2014 was under collapse, haven't you? Because the outsiders tell you. The recapitalisations were made because you screwed up the banks, because you loaned your parties, your contractors and the media yours. Why did the banks sink? Why did the private person take money or why did your "fathers" play? Can you say that once, so that we can have a debate tomorrow? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u309	Thank you, Mr Karayannides. Mr Athanasios Theocharopoulos has the floor from the Democratic Integration, and then the Minister will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u310	Ladies and gentlemen, the real economy in the country has long gone beyond the limits of its strength. Sociobo and its cohesion are at risk of being devastated definitively. In this environment, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, instead of solving the major problems of society, binds its eyes to the challenges. It continues to go without a plan and implement inefficient policies at all levels. The 2017 budget and the Eurogroup decision clearly show where we are going in the coming years: in a lasting memorandum. This is, unfortunately, what you agreed on, without being able to negotiate effectively in the recent Eurogroup. The budget that we are discussing is characterised by tax austerity - it even says the Bureau of the Parliament's Budget - when the citizens' fiscal capacity has been exhausted. He's socially unfair and anti-developmental. For how can it have a development dimension when it provides for intense material interventions? The vast majority of the new measures, 95%, concern taxes of EUR 2.5 billion. It is based on unfounded optimism, obviously for internal consumption. What is your government celebrations of the Eurogroup decision? Do you think the Greek society does not understand that this is an artificial success story by Mr. Tsipras? The government has achieved the worst mix between the positions of the International Monetary Fund and Symble or better, Mr Tsakalote, among the 'two elephants', as Mr Symble has said. The Greek Government, however, proved to be worse than "the mice, which at least respect and fear elephants". That's the reality. In particular, Shoeble's positions, not the Fund, have been confirmed for non-directly brave write-down of public debt and for a surplus of 3.5% even after 2018. At the same time, the position of the International Monetary Fund has been confirmed, with its ideological insistence on new measures. I do not underestimate the arrangements adopted for the debt. Every setting is welcome. We know, however, that there will actually be no short-term benefit. They only have long-term effects, which are actually beginning slightly in 2040 and ending in 2060, according to the debt sustainability study updated by the International Monetary Fund. So delusional debts, unfortunately, have consequences for the country. That's why we don't have any new delusions. You haven't solved the matter. After all, even if the debt is regulated, we will soon come to the same point if a new, healthy production model is not adopted. In this area, unfortunately, you do nothing. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister asks the parties, through his Press Office, to commit themselves to'rejecting all thoughts of additional austerity measures after the end of the programme'. She's got her limits too! You agreed, as a government, on a primary surplus of 3.5%, which means new dogmatic austerity measures, and after 2018, and on a lasting memorial, and you ask us to reject them at the same time, as we have already done in constant measure, such as labour and collective redundancies. Who are you kidding? You think people don't understand? The Greek people can't stand lies. Creditors, of course, also have irrational requirements, such as working, collective redundancies, lock out, and 3.5% of primary surpluses. Efficiently remove these ideological obsessions and leave the communication terrain. Stop making impressions in order to justify tough measures coming. The state budget is revealing. Following the exhaustion of the public's burden-sharing capacity, which is reflected in the increase in public debts, which now amount to around EUR 93 billion, there is a new tsunami of taxes. Citizens will see their incomes shrink even further. The main thing is that most taxes are indirect. Taxation becomes more socially unfair, as the ratio of direct and indirect taxation deteriorates from 1.15 in 2014 to 1.30 in 2017. Let us therefore congratulate you on your left-wing policy in favour of indirect taxes! It is inconceivable that the government should try to convince with accounting trick of a so-called social policy. He wants to collect EUR 4.9 billion to give the citizens EUR 871 million back. It will take money, mainly through indirect taxes, from poor in essence, and will only share a small part of it with the poor. At best, this is called the'recycling of poverty'. From where, as an opposition you did not adopt, ladies and gentlemen, the idea that the country's objective should be to have surpluses, not to produce deficits, you go to the other end, accepting excessive primary surplus targets after 2018. The reality is, however, that, to give the Greek people perspective, sustainable development is key. But growth is not being ordered. It is achieved when there are policies that create the right environment, with a framework that is attractive to investment, capable of promoting exports, strengthening private consumption. The budget provides for 2.7% growth for 2017 with this tax that I analysed earlier. If it is not achieved - the most likely not to be achieved, the most likely, with that logic - will be activated the cutter that you agreed to. There is a 9.1% increase in investment in the budget, when this overtaxation exists, a lack of liquidity, at the same time, that drowns the private economy and strangles entrepreneurship. Sustainable growth is not achieved with unemployment at heights without an integrated plan to combat it. Otherwise, even if growth is achieved, it will be unemployed growth. We stress repeatedly - and the Minister for Rural Development is here - that a productive reconstruction plan is required for the country. No production reconstruction plan. There is no rural development plan for the country. It needs to make use of the EUR 19 billion for this seven-year period, which was secured by tough negotiations in 2012-2013. To be used in productive investments and in competitive crops with a view to increasing exports and reducing imports. You don't do any of this, though. This money is still untapped for the rural NSRF at the moment. They're blocked. Farmers at the moment are not getting the aid they need to get. Of course, the refund of tax on mineral oils has been abolished. We have asked you to introduce agricultural diesel and you have not done so. You have tripled the insurance contributions to the agricultural sector. You abolished the OGA. All this is what farmers are aware of. The Prime Minister went to Komotini and presented an artificial agricultural success story. The farmers know, though. Of course, in other areas, such as fuel smuggling, which does not go far enough to combat it, you do not use the input-out system to get revenue. You are not doing anything in this area that you said when your governance had begun. Ladies and gentlemen, in order for the country to overcome the crisis, it is finally necessary to change the mixture of economic policy, with a view to rationalising expenditure and reducing the waste of resources by structural reforms.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u311	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u312	I shall conclude, Mr President. But real progressive reforms are needed, not New Democracy's deregulations or SYRIZA's reforms. We need a healthy productive model of development. These are the real challenges that we need to face and which the budget, which is also economically ineffective and socially unfair, and which will be essentially inextricable. With this second budget of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL, the crisis will deepen. That is why we are voting against it. Only by means of national understanding will the paths of our economic and political system perpetuate and perpetuate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u313	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, forty-four students and students and three teachers from the PAEL Megalopolis Arcadias. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister has the floor for twelve minutes. Then Mrs Karasarlidou will speak. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u314	I'm going to need your tolerance, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will only dwell on the area I serve, the rural one. Our government is determined to support - and support - the rural world in every way. Before haunting numbers of what we have done and what we will do as a government - because the figures give the reality - I should like to address the farmers who appear to lead initiatives to organise this year's mobilisation. They have problems, as do all the farmers in the European Union, as do the other Greeks. However, the data from EUROSTAT and ELSTAT show that the upward orbit that presented their income in 2015 will continue in 2016. Although I have met most people, I want today for better information I want to invite them to dialogue, which, as they know, has never been a pretext on our part, but it has always been done with numbers. It is well known, ladies and gentlemen, that the rural area is currently having a problem of institutional representation. We are prepared to discuss with all the groups that appear to represent him. First of all, on the issues that dominated last year's mobilisation, the commitments made by the Prime Minister, yes, ladies and gentlemen, were implemented literally, for example in tax matters. We have promised a reduction in the maximum majority of farmers, and we have guaranteed it by introducing an individual tax limit of EUR 8,600. According to data from the Ministry of Finance of 2015, 95% of all farm income statements show an income of between zero and 9,000 euros. Farmers who correspond to these declarations will not only pay in 2017 a single euro, but will also reimburse them the entire tax advance they paid in 2016. And I respond to the sludge that has prevailed at this hour, that next year there will be an increase in the advance payment of the tax. Repeat, to be understood by all: 95% of all farmers in 2017 will get back all the advance tax paid in previous years. In the insurance that the transfer of the OGA to the single organisation will take place within five years, with a reference to 70% of the minimum wage, with the combination, which was also a requirement of last year's mobilisation, tax and insurance, 90% of the farmers will pay for their insurance of less than what they earn from the reduction in their taxation. Ladies and gentlemen, the guarantee of the tax-free and the national pension of EUR 384 was for farmers the most important issues that we adopted in 2016. I'm continuing, please, and you need to listen to me. In payments, something that you constantly highlight, first of all, one thing: it is indeed the European course of our country that has guaranteed more than 19 billion in the next five years, without mentioning the other programmes of the area approved directly, such as LIFE. And you know what all this means? In terms of aid, ladies and gentlemen of the JRC, some EUR 2.6 billion a year will be allocated, i.e. more than 2.1 billion declared by farmers and grants from the Rural Development and Fisheries Programme for another 5.2 billion. What did we do? We have, first of all, ensured the smooth payment of agricultural aid, even by building up all the loose ends even since 2007. Ladies and gentlemen, by the end of the year more than EUR 3.5 billion will have been allocated to the Greek countryside in 2016. I repeat: a total of EUR 3.5 billion will be provided in 2016. Have you remembered any other year that such payments have been made? I'm going to say something about the whole Greek society. For the second year, the audit authorities did not impose fines and charges on us when more than EUR 3 billion was accumulated over the past five years. Ladies and gentlemen, we are negotiating and we are on the right track in order to prevent our country from imposing great fines, such as what your own terms have reserved for our country in the rural area, fines which will be borne by all taxpayers, as well as unpleasant situations, which are so far as to threaten us to be offset by aid. I come to the payments of the ELGA, which have gone beyond each previous one. Yeah, they crossed every precedent. In August 2016, we completed the payments in 2015, i.e. five months earlier, and in November we started the damage payments in 2016, that is, three months earlier last year, even though this year was more difficult both in terms of weather and due to the abstention of the assessors. We are defending the promotion of our products on international markets through specific funding, which in 2016 amounted to 150 million euros. Exports continue upwards in 2015. In particular, exports of fruit and vegetables in 2016 will exceed 1.6 billion tonnes, with a 10-year record. We are also fighting for the protection of our products in the agreements between the European Union and third countries such as Canada and South Africa, where, for the feta, ladies and gentlemen, the use of the name was envisaged under the terms 'South African feta' or 'type feta' or'styre feta' from the countries concerned. What did we achieve? Yes, it's an important, historic victory. The European Commission committed itself to revising the agreement before the end of the five-year period, with a view to eliminating the use of the term "feta" in enterprises in these countries. We are currently implementing a comprehensive strategic plan for the reconstruction of the Greek economy and the regeneration of the region and of the countryside. For its implementation, we make every possible and available instrument with a first of all the rural development programme of 4.7 billion Community participation. Of course, you know that we have already launched notices, already by the end of the year four - five actions will be launched and, of course, we are going on a course to complete the whole thing from next year. What you forget to say, however, is that at the initiative of our Ministry, 37% of these resources will be managed by the regions. This is a resource-sharing section in the area of regional selfgovernment. And we did, because we are the ones who had as a basic slogan: 'Decentralisation with self-government' and it becomes a reality. I'll say one more thing. The absorption of both the old and the new programme over two years is the best of all the previous years. We have already moved on to the use of grazing land, which deals with three main issues: the management of seventy-nine million hectares of woodland that are currently grazing, the eligibility for aid and the use of grassland rights by farmers. This is a great intervention in production costs and a visionary policy in the organisation of livestock farming. I'm afraid I'll tell you. Most of the colleagues in the Opposition did not even understand what we brought together as regulation. We have established a new framework for the operation of cooperatives, which gives particular weight to producer groups and organisations and interbranch organisations. The establishment of agricultural co-operation together with the opposition reacted. I expect them to tell me - I have asked many times - what we will do with their outstanding loans of EUR 2.5 billion, but also the EUR 550 million that the European Commission is asking us to recover. I'm waiting for your answer. We proceeded to the bachelor's for the immigrant land workers. This is a fundamental innovation in the insurance area, but also a human obligation to economic migrants. We have introduced the use of renewable energy sources to reduce production costs by installing small photovoltaic units on an individual and collective basis. Ladies and gentlemen, we have created the conditions for the provision of liquidity in the area with the Cartas Farmer, which we announced yesterday. So we have ensured low funding to farmers for basic aid to meet their farm-related needs. Does anyone remember from you, ladies and gentlemen, if there was ever an interest rate in the rural area around 4%? Remember! We have founded a body for the exploitation of public rural land and the real estate of the ETHIAG, because we aim to make full use of this property, especially by the collective bodies of young people with long-term rental, in the context of improvement plans. We then proceed to a new institutional framework for the marketing, marketing and traceability of agricultural products and for the observance of strict and timely repayment limits for producers. The ten-month and twelve-month checks will leave the trade in agricultural products. We have also taken steps to ensure rational management.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u315	Minister, you have two more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u316	I shall conclude, Mr President. I would like to focus a little on the rational management of fish stocks with the new Operational Fisheries Programme that we are moving forward. Of course, we have already tabled our proposals for the revision of the common agricultural policy. We are preparing to present our proposals for the common agricultural policy after 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, we have put rural areas on our policy agenda as a basic theme on the agenda. On the countryside, not as a place of recreation and escape for the weekend, holidays and nutritional assistance. That's not the role of the countryside. The Greek countryside with its enormous potential, in spite of the problems and difficulties we have experienced in these years, is determined not only not to put it down, but to throw away the glove of the challenge to the modern market, to the nutritional needs, values and demands of the modern world. That is why it must be understood that the great bet of the start-up of the economy and growth cannot then be won for the country if it is not earned primarily for the countryside. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u317	Thank you very much. Mrs Karasarlidou has the floor from SYRIZA. Then Mr Maroudis Vorides will be given the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u318	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the budget is usually one of economic indicators, forecasts and equations. However, on the occasion of the second budget presented by this government, I will try to map out the efforts we have made and the prospects for the future. One of the main objectives of the government, of course, taking into account the consequences of previous policies, has been to protect the most vulnerable social groups. And, indeed, the most favourable domestic economic environment for 2017 allows for fiscal responsibility and social justice. The primary surplus of 2017 is expected to be set at 1.75% of GDP, which exceeds the budgetary target, but, at the same time, integrating the full expansion of the social income of solidarity in all the prefectures of the country. More specifically, in the health sector, we promote the reform of the primary health system with local health units, with family doctors and interdisciplinary health teams, with six-hour on-call programmes, by upgrading the operation of the units of the PEN, health centres, regional hospitals, especially in the difficult areas, in the islands that are facing and the refugee flows but also have a large number of visitors. Overall we upgrade the National Health System, which was under collapse after six years of dramatic cuts in their operating needs and substantial zeroing of recruitments. We are organising self-sufficient emergency departments in regional and prefectural hospitals, in central workshops in each health region and in the centres of the chronic suffering. Clearly none of us claim that things are only positive. On the one hand, there is the legitimate tiredness of every Greek citizen. On the other hand, however, we also have a directed picture of the media and the opposition, which are deliberately trying to create with their most pitiful narrative narratives every time. This budget, however, has three important features: it provides for growth to be achieved at 2.7%. It has a significant increase in expenditure for the protection of the most vulnerable groups of the population and for increasing the social costs intended to boost health, as I have already said, of social protection and education. For example, I would like to mention the zero participation of the beneficiaries of uninsured and the beneficiaries of the CSR with 80% disability in the cost of their medication, the two hundred and fifty-four community centres, the policies for the child and vulnerable groups, the poverty structures, the protection of the first residence of overdue citizens with predefined income and assets criteria. Essentially 5.75 billion European funds will be allocated to the real economy to boost growth. At the same time, the budget of the national part of the Public Investment Programme is increased by EUR 250 million, reaching EUR 1 billion. Unemployment gradually deviates and is estimated to fall further in 2017, touching 22.4%. Because the government's attempt is to achieve the greatest redistribution of incomes ever attempted. Since the beginning of our governance, we have been increasingly facing corruption of officials, media speculation, the crackdown of public funds. The deliberate maintenance of an administrative chaos favoured by the policies of the New Democracy and PASOK, we see that it now has a degressive course. I'm sure a lot of people are dissatisfied in the country. That's obvious. With the resources we save from corruption, however, we are strengthening the lowest strata. We are moving on to the reconstruction of the public sector, not to reduce it, so that each official's long-time work corresponds to his productivity. The real problems faced by farmers and businesses are trying to make use of all the financial instruments. By the end of the year the new equity and entrepreneurial funds as well as the new equity finance programme will have been activated. And within the first quarter of 2017, the new infrastructure and microcredit funds will be activated. Our aim is to provide reliable solutions that will not transfer problems to the future, such as the irresponsible packages of Hatzigakis, for example. Colleagues, let us not forget that this government is fighting on many fronts. On the outside front we have already secured a debt reduction at around 22% of GDP, i.e. at least 45 billion. On the inside of the front we have focused more intensively on the domestic scene of chaos that has been set up in previous years, with the aim of saving resources, opening new jobs. So bets are big. We'll do whatever goes through our hand to win. We have shown that we can reliably implement the country's commitments and restore confidence, no matter how much some bet on the contrary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u319	I thank my colleague, Mrs Karasardou, who was exemplary in time. Let's think about these when tomorrow's six minutes start and we'll go to the end in five minutes. I would like to say that we all have to be very consistent with time. I'm not saying this about Mr. Voridis who one of his abilities is also. Mr Mavroudis Voridis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u320	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start from something special and then a little more generally, I will make some more general thoughts. This budget is signed by the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Skourlet. In this budget, the forecast for municipality funding is the following: EUR 2.567,000 in 2016, EUR 2,347,000 in 2017. EUR 214 million is missing, and that is because it does not continue to be taken over by the arrangements that had been made. As you know, the Greek State has to pay off illegal taxes to the municipalities. He didn't do it. There was an arrangement. She actually managed to regulate the amounts due by 2009. You've been in government for two years. In these two years you have not taken care of a new agreement. I would like Mr Skourletis to come and tell us in this Chamber what is going to happen with the 214 million missing from municipalities, which at the moment have no money to operate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u321	Just what New Democracy owes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u322	Mr. Triantafylide, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u323	The New Democracy, however, smart fellow Member, has taken care of and regulated the issue and has given this money to all budgets that are now stopping. So I would now like your intelligent contribution to resolving the issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u324	Don't cause!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u325	Hey!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u326	Hey!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u327	And he doesn't know where he's headed. That's it now. Now, then, I'm going to the other way. Minister, I would like you to tell me in simple words when you will speak: my voter in the House from the arrangement you made for the debt next month, next quarter, next semester, next year, what exactly is it waiting for? What can I tell him? He's asking me. We all waited for the debt arrangement. It is a great achievement of the Greek government and is now waiting to see something in its pocket of time. He's been patient with man for another year, but he wants to see it. Will you tell me what my voter in Acharnes, Aspropyrgos and Elefsina expects? The second thing I want you to say is where are you authorised to go to agree on medium-term surpluses of 3.5%? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Let it go, 'we didn't agree'. Read the Eurogroup announcement. That's where you were. Of course you agreed, and you did not disagree at all. And I read your announcement that you didn't agree to ten years. No one tells you that you agreed at ten years. You agreed on 3.5% of the surpluses in the medium term. And when Diaselblum asked what "medium-term" means: some say three, others say five, others say ten. So I ask, for the minimum: Who gave you political legitimacy, mandate and authority to agree on the three? Your political circle ends in 2019. Where did you get the order? To be informed, this commitment does not exist. It's only about your political circle. Second matter. You'll explain the other one, which I think is even more interesting in what you have to explain to us. You are talking about 3.5% surpluses and, at the same time, you say 'I do not accept any new measures'. How's that coming out? Because those you're talking to there, I hear they've been doing you a favor for the last minute. They wanted, he says, to put some of them in a position to put in place that, of course, the adjustment will be made on the subject of the personal difference that results in 20% reductions in the main pensions, as well as in the tax-free amount, which should be made to 5,000 euros. They made you a political favour. They have not put it within the meaning of express wording, but not that this does not come back as a real debate. Where are you going to make this adjustment, with which you agree? Where's that 3.5% coming from? Will you explain to the Greek people what it is you agree with, to understand when you are going to cut his pension, why did you agree to 3.5%, when he pays what he is paying for, why do you take the tax? Tell him what's in the pocket from the debt arrangement in 2060, all this together. Because that's what you went and you did now. Because that is your agreement now, and that is what you are trying to commit the country now. Here we are talking about the responsibilities of your new friends, because there is an exchange here. They leave you without real reforms in the functioning of the public sector, for example, which is a debate that has taken place. You are coming here and mobility you are effectively canceling it, making it voluntary. So the public is not reformed, it is not effective, it does not help production, it is not reformed. That doesn't matter to your new friends because what they care about is money in the pocket, the budget, the surplus. Whether the Greek economy really will come up, it seems that it is not anyone's priority. And because you too do not want - so that you do not harm your nice party customers - no real change within the operation of the state mechanism, so you make these nice agreements. So you're telling us what your plan is? Because we recommend another that you do not have the courage to apply. Instead of large budgetary surpluses, small budgetary surpluses and we exchange them with reforms, which enhance competitiveness, outward-lookingness, magnify GDP and create wealth. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Incidentally, in the answers you need to give, you can give us another one and I'm done, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u328	Example, Mr. Voridis?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u329	I don't have time unless the President gives me five more minutes, I'd be happy to give you many examples.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u330	There's no time, Mr. Balaura.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u331	And one last thing for the Minister to explain and I'll be done. The forecast for growth next year is 2.7%. Right? Yeah. There is no financial agency to say that this will be achieved. Can you explain to us once this has not been achieved the budgetary gap that will arise, from where to cover it, what forecasts do you have? Because what the Greek people understand today, with what you agreed, is that your stay in power every day kills the Greek economy, brings more measures, eliminates the Greek people. That is why you need to leave now to change the situation in this country. Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u332	Thank you very much, Mr. Voridis. The last thing you said, 'be well' was a continuation of the previous appeal to Members. Be well, too! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-six students and four teachers from the 1st Evrosmos High School of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Nikolaos Moraitis from the JRC has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u333	With a little tolerance. Thank you, Mr President. We are discussing another deeply classic anti-linguistic budget that loads new burdens on the backs of working people's families. Of course, SYRIZA - ANEL co-government characterises him with a great deal of courage, a "development budget" that will bring relief to people's incomes and people's households. In this direction, it also celebrates the Eurogroup agreement on Monday. However, any benefits from this agreement only relate to capital. The people will bleed in the peninsula to make more money for the monopolistic groups. The government is doing its homework, and indeed, it is going through "excellent" from the big capital, from its partners. With the budget and the second assessment that comes, you grant new profits and privileges to monopolies, business groups. But you are stepping up the tax burden on the people's strata. You are cutting further funds than the few left to cover elementary people's needs. You're tearing down what's left of social rights. The anti-popular attack has no end, no expiry date. These are all the directions of the European Union, of the monopolistic groups. It is, in short, a requirement of capital. And to one or the other, they apply to all countries of the European Union, whether there is a memorandum or not. The coup d'état presents the new anti-population "storm" and through the 2017 budget, as a necessity. And he's trying to reassure the people that they're the last measures, that the targets will be reached and growth will come. Even if some growth comes, this will be anemic. It will not bring any relief and much more, it will not bring back the losses for the people's families, but will prepare a new round of the anti-popular attack sooner or later, if the people with their struggle do not put any obstacles. The ruling Left, provocatively provocative, after squeezing the popular households, then sharing social dividends. You really are "manullis" in deception, selling fruitfruits hopes, obscuring reality, putting crumbs on the impoverished who will get them, but, from the poor, those impoverished who have led them to extreme poverty. And then he gives them a plate of food. What you're saying you're going to give is one of the "blooded" surpluses, from the cracking of the working class, from the wide popular strata. The previous ones did the same. You aim with your policy to "block" popular consciences with the logic of less evil. Use the recipe of fear that if the targets are not reached, we will have new anti-grass measures. That is why you voted for the 'cutter', so that there is no derogation from anti-popular policy, that it is 'bulk' over workers' heads, that you can keep the road to the next anti-popular measures if the targets are not taken. This role is played by so-called 'left governments' in Greece and elsewhere. They function as system owners and are used to integrate the labour movement, disarmament. This is the priceless service you offer in the system. You do the dirty work that others would have been difficult to do. Go at a glimpse of speed train on the rails of anti-grass policy, to the demands of big capital. Let us see now, Mr Apostlelos, the gifts the ruling Left brings to poor medium-sized farms through the budget. Intensify the tax burden on farmers, despite what you have said before. And we'll give you a specific answer. You tax on the basis of the substantiated living documents that you have not said a word about. You're taxing 22% on income from the first euro. Of course, last year, after the great racing mobilisations of farmers, they managed and got tax free at EUR 6,760 and EUR 9,500. But you take them all back, Mr. Apostleu. You didn't say a word about paying hundreds of millions of millions in indirect taxes. You have not said a word that you have cut the refund on agricultural oil, which, along with the increase in oil traffic, will pay the farmers 30 minutes a litre more precisely, which will cause the cost of production to rise. The poor, medium-sized farmers - farmers - certainly I do not see Mr Papadopoulos here - pay 92.7 million, Mr Apostolos. Here are the OGA insurance contributions, which you first went to an increase close to 30%, and if we take into account what you and Mr Papadopoulos have claimed, that 92% of farmers have an income of 5,000 euros, do you know how much it is? Mr. Papadopoulos did something else. He said half the truth. He said that the EUR 1,063 he pays for 5,000 euros is six months old. If we put it in time, it's 2,220 euros. If we also put the wife on - because if you don't pay contributions, you don't get a pension and not just that, but they don't get a widow's pension - you do something else, worse and you and the previous ones - do you know how much it adds up, Mr Apostle? It's 4.250 euros. Of the 5,000 euros they get 52 euros a month to live. That's your policy. With regard to the other measures that you have taken, in addition to what you have imposed on the OGA, you have taxed the activation of rights, ENPIA, ELGA, an environmental charge and much more. Of course, Mr Apostleou, and here today you have not avoided it. You said that the farmers are having a good time, that they are quiet and that the Communist Party of Greece is to blame, which induces them, which raises them, which does not leave them in peace. Mr Apostle, the farmers are raised by your anti-agricultural policy, the policy that is spreading poverty, impoverishment. Of course, you're shaking the farm races and doing everything. But you won't make it. You are also resorting to social automation policy. You did it in Crete too. You're trying to raise a social group against the other both sufferers, the farmers against the seafarers. You are really frightened by the alliance of workers and farmers. You will get a first answer to tomorrow's labour-class mobilizations, which the poor medium-sized farms and there they will give a bronze'residents'. I don't have time to tell you, Mr. Apostleu. You said about subsidies. Do you know what you're doing with subsidies? You have cut off the compensation for the poorest, the most impoverished. And another thing: If exports go so well, why do 92% of farmers have an income? Isn't that a contradiction? Do you know why? Indeed, we never said there would be no production in the country. There's production, but production is picking up in a few hands. And indeed, some have income and some are looking in the trash cans for food. When uncultivated fields are left uncultivated, while huge possibilities exist, that is your policy. The ruling Left at the very time the noose is tightening on the workers is really scanning such conquests. I would like to end this, Mr Apostleu. Indeed, last year the poor, medium-sized farmers - and we say so to hear it - won a lot with their struggles. You were forced to take the tax, and you did something else. You brought the amendment to the House on the agricultural courthouses, but because you're shaking the farm riot, do you know what you're doing? It's not the law. I denounce you from the Stepma of the Parliament and you and the Justice Minister that throughout the country and more specifically, the police and the judiciary are calling hundreds of farmers to go for interrogation. Mr. Apostle, the criminalization of the games will not pass. He'll be back. Take a seat on these issues. Poor medium-sized farms have only one way, the way to fight and indeed the next mobilisations will be grand and the alliance of workers and farmers will be established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u334	Thank you, too. Please, Mr Mavraganis has the floor from ANEL, Secretary of State for Transport and Infrastructure, at the time of the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u335	Yes, Mr. President. I'll be as comfortable as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to start a little differently, but indeed my colleague, Mr Vorides, indirectly urges me to begin my speech with others. Indeed, I sincerely welcome, Maki, your turn and yours and many others from the old political system in what we were talking about. In other words, we said that it would not be possible for the high surpluses to continue and for Greek economy and society to walk with them. In any case, debt is not sustainable, when you once applauded your resignation leaders who said that debt is absolutely viable, that there is no need for any change at all and that society is going right. It is a fact, ladies and gentlemen, that the economy in the contributors to a geopolitical landscape that is actually changing, could not remain upright if we did not take over the rule of this place in January 2015, because Mr Vorides - and he rightly asks - what the ordinary citizen expects from this governance and management of the country's economic affairs. I know, therefore, to tell him that if we did not take over governance, the Greek people would have an additional EUR 20 billion on their back. He knows that very well. So he knows what he was expecting, if we did not take over the governance of this place, when we reduced with that negotiation - the really too pressing and at the extremes - in July 2015 the necessary surpluses of 10.5 units. We are talking about what they themselves signed, about what they themselves were going to implement on the back of the Greek people. That's what they don't talk about, they forgot about it. Nor do they speak of the following: How much was the average loan rate of the Greek state, ladies and gentlemen? It was in the beginning with 5%, with 4.8% then, with 4% and 3.8%. Do they remember that? Do they remember how much we borrowed last year, where we did not add EUR 86 billion to the debt, of course, they say, but did we go to replace earlier borrowings? We borrowed 1% to 1.5%. Does that mean anything to them? Does it also tell them something about the fact that the growth of the Greek state's loans is now increasing by 20% in 1/5 of the year, that is, by five years? I address my fellow lawyers in this Chamber. What is the basis they request when they regulate a loan to private debts? They ask for prolongations, fixed interest rates and exemption from certain florists. But that's exactly what's happening right now. The fixed rate which now guarantees an agreement is below 2%. What does that have to do with 4% and 5% that were borrowed? This is clearly a project in any citizen's mind, because that is precisely the prerequisite for reducing the private economy of each house in the coming years and in the coming months. However, the Greek state does not only enjoy an effort by certain honest people to relieve the burden of debt, the excesses of debt in any case, the Greek economy and society. They also enjoy a multidimensional geostrategic importance that we want to attach to Greece. The one-dimensional foreign policy addressed only to Germany was the one that substantially devoured the Greek economy and society and it was the one which was replaced by us with a multi-dimensional foreign policy, but also a geostrategic design. So we revived our relations with the United States, France and Israel, maintaining very good relations with China and Russia. This is not an accident, nor can it be attributed to a signicant. It is something that everyone wants, when geostrategic bullets are specifically changed and changed in our neighborhood, when a vital area of Kurdistan is created and when Europe's energy projects are first on the agenda. When we project the 'Est Med' pipeline, the pipeline that starts from Israel, will go to Cyprus, Crete, the Peloponnese and from there to Epirus and Italy and the rest of Europe, is this not a resurgence of the geostrategic importance of Greece? Is that not very important, plus that our infrastructure is now characterised and strategically managed by a national planning aimed at the geostrategic resurgence of Greece, namely railways and roads? This is because we are trying to bring back the role that these infrastructures play in making the place more attractive, more attractive than it was, and, in any case, with geostrategic significance to our wider environment, economics, so that we become an eligible country for transit trade. Is that not a significant lever of growth and value added to the national economy itself, in the Greek society itself? Isn't that what he's going to give up in the next few years something missing in the Greek economy? [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] In particular, I would like to give two examples before I close, Mr President. The Triumph, for which it has been forty years, has been planned since 1976. In 1984 the first project was officially planned by OSE and the Greek State. Five unscrupulous competitions. But now it is what has to be done. Yes, Triasios is a strategic investment for the Greek economy. As well as the start of the re-establishment works on the main railway axis of Athens-Thessaloniki, which, at the beginning of 2018, is intended to deliver most of the lines and at the end of 2018, the complete tradition, which will take place in three and a half hours. Is this not something extremely important for freight trade and for the passenger rail transport? Does it no longer characterize Greece as an advanced country in transit trade? Mr President, I would like to talk about a lot more, but I do not have time. I just want to say one thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u336	You have a minute, Mr. Mavraani.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u337	Mr President, I am closing with this. The budget which we are called upon to work on and ultimately to vote, in my humble opinion, is a budget with deep humanitarian features, but also with a spirit of strategic planning and development. It is not just the fact that the social income for two hundred and fifty thousand people is now being established for the whole of Greece. It is not just the fact that EUR 300 million is added to education, health and social protection. It is not just the fact that 100 million are being given to pay red loans from our weak fellow people. It is, above all, the fact that all the Ministries have been given priority, which is also represented in the budget, for development, institutionalised now, structures which will create added value in the coming years. Greece must now symbolize Greece's humanism and strategic investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u338	Thank you. Mr Andreas Rizoulis has the floor from SYRIZA, and then Mrs Theodora Merger from the Centroon Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u339	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the best thing I can do, I think, is a text which is small, four rows, which I caught from a friend on the internet and shows the real situation of the confrontation of counter-population, and in particular of the New Democracy, in relation to the negotiation for the second assessment: 'This SYRIZA - ANEL government - Obstacles nothing finally achieved, only 20% reduction in credit obligations, at the same time locking the interest rate to 1.5%! The evaluation shall be completed without new measures, with the road towards integration into quantitative relaxation and with the debate on the surpluses. Minimum, little.’ Mr Hatzidakis has asked us to answer what reforms we are doing or what we cannot do, without, of course, answering Mr Balaura's question earlier: to give us an example of their own perception of reform. This is not said because, obviously, if they start and say what they mean as reforms, people will scare. And we don't want such situations, especially now that we're in front of the polls and we're going to take the government! So let us see what reform is for you. Reform for you is to dissolve what is meant or is public good. And you've done this, and I'll explain below. Recently, Mr Mitsotakis called SYRIZA's insistence on restoring collective agreements - that is an ideality! - that is to say, those which ensure, in each industry, the working and wage conditions of dignity for workers. After all, these are the reforms that you have carried out by deregulation of the labour market at the expense of workers. Return to the European acquis is an ideality! The main aim of the Government is to maintain the strengthening of budgetary equilibrium with a fair sharing of budgetary adjustment and the benefit resulting from economic recovery. It has been consistent and has been the achievement of the agreed objectives with the institutions and, on the other hand, the persistent and serious negotiation and response to the extremes that return each time. Also, the internationalisation of the Greek issue and the stable defence of the country in a difficult environment brings gains in the direction of exiting from the crisis with fair growth. This is an effort that is at the reverse of the acts of the previous governments, which have implemented and wanted to implement an economic policy in line with any requirements of their lenders and their extremes. We say this for the following reasons: they speak, for example, of non-negotiable negotiation. And that's not only the New Democracy, it's the River. And we are talking about political forces, such as the New Democracy, which was calling 'complete, Mr Tsipras, and bring an agreement'. The river also said: 'Get any agreement to be concluded'. There is no need for much imagination to understand what you mean by 'negotiation'. The exit from the crisis proclaimed by the Qualified Opposition leaves the majority of the Greek people with no public education and health. Fresh memories of deregulation and dismantling of the public goods you have attempted. The conflict of policies - and I will mention it now - which have been implemented in two places, in the rural economy, concerning primary production - is characteristic of which everyone wants to grow and is saddened not to increase as much as you would like - and in education for the future of the country. Let us see what your practice was in agricultural production. In time it was linked to the depreciation of cooperatives, the party rule, the bankruptcy of cooperatives and the reduction of agricultural production. And Mr Gélez asked us before how we are going to the villages and what we tell the farmers. The Minister mentioned earlier and I do not need to reply. What does Mr. Gellnis say to farmers, who were also a trade union of the agricultural movement, about the smuggling of money from cooperatives and about their dismantling, who now have two, three cooperatives in Greece? Did the SYRIZA government do it? Our objective - and we already have results - is to double agricultural production in GDP. We are doing this through the rural development programme with the cooperatives - with the new law we have adopted - with the producer groups and the strengthening of organic farming with the ultimate aim of producing high quality, high added value and promoting on the international markets of Greek products with a comparative advantage and recognition. The budget of the Ministry of Rural Development guarantees the continuation of the increase in agricultural GDP, which was strengthened in 2015 by 4% and somewhere there closes and in 2016, and still guarantees the continuation of the growth trend in the coming years in agricultural income, which was strengthened by 11.66% in 2015 again this year closes with such an increase. I should like to refer to this point. Mr Moraite - he is now not in the Chamber - we cannot tax farmers on the first euro and on the other hand say that there is a tax-free limit. You can't do that. I will bring in another example, as far as 2016 is concerned. The maximum amount of compensation to be collected by beneficiaries of mountain regions from EUR 100 to EUR 125 per hectare is increased, as well as a number of other measures and actions that support farms, which I certainly do not have time to mention. Now we're going to training. Your policy is a disgrace to public education and teachers. You do this in the following ways: Reform for you was the exclusion of students and even those who belong to the lowest economic strata from the provision of public technical education by rendering them to schoolgirls. In fact, on the day you closed the respective departments of the schools, the Minister of the Government of New Democracy spoke to a meeting of school directors, credentials. Reform for you was the implementation of the sack assessment and the fear you soared in schools. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. Reform for us is to strengthen public education. Reform for us is providing equal opportunities and opportunities for all. Reforming for us is the democratic school with teachers who work with dignity rather than the fear of the bed of the Profrust in which you have led and willingly wished to drive teachers and the public education of all grades. If all of this is our idealism, that is the definition of ideology, we admit it, we are ideological. For the 2016 budget we discussed here last year and the forecasts, if you were psychic, you would have failed, you will not make euros. ‘Destroy. In the spring, the government will fall, the rating will not be closed, you will not get the targets, there will be no primary surpluses, and here too, some bets will be placed on the dates. The 2017 budget approximately in the same context. Now, in the 2018 budget that we are going to discuss next year here, when we are going to have the goals we have set and there will be growth in the country, see what you're going to say next year. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u340	Exemplary and comprehensive, Mr Rizzoulis. Mrs Theodora Megalo-Economics from the Centro Association has the floor. Then Mr Spyridon Lykoudis will be given the floor, which has been in the morning and has not been able to come the Vice President and Mr Georgios-Dimitrios Karras. Here, Mrs. Big Housekeeper, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u341	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the second time I have spoken in this House in a budget debate as a Member of the Union of Centres. Last year I remember being very disappointed with what I was reading in the 2016 budget. But this year I find out what every Greek knows and feels, that every new year is even worse for the Greek economy and that in 2017 it is expected to be an even more difficult year for Greeks and Greeks. And the saddest thing is that while the overall picture in the European Union, at least at the level of economic forecasts, shows a positive rate, Greece continues to sink into an endless, deadless and persistent recession. As one may notice, the increase in direct and indirect taxes is exhaustive. For that reason, I will give the truth two points: there is a great increase in taxation both for natural persons and for legal persons. The government hopes to collect more than EUR 3 billion from businesses, much more than what was eventually collected two years ago, in 2015. And so a big question arises: What has changed since 2015? I wonder if we had an increase in the number of enterprises, did we have growth? Of course not. By mid-2016, according to official GEMI figures, fifteen thousand four hundred forty-four businesses were closed. And that by the middle of the year that we are going through, without taking into account the large number of inert companies that cannot close their books or are in bankruptcy. Since the beginning of the crisis, there have been two hundred and fifty thousand small and medium-sized enterprises. So I ask: How will companies be able to raise the huge tax burdens for 2017? They will not be able, ladies and gentlemen of the government. Most small and medium-sized enterprises, over time, either bend from the unbearable day-to-day struggle with costs and obligations or resort to a well-known solution. What are they doing? They move their seat to neighbouring countries such as Bulgaria, Romania, Cyprus and more there pay taxes and hire officials there. The most disappointing, however, is the forecasts of the budget for households. Greeks will be invited this year to pay more than EUR 1 billion in direct taxes and 1.3 billion in indirect taxes. It is obvious that the government is unable to collect from the Greek taxpayer directly, because quite simply the income declared is every year and fewer than expected. So, once again, the government resorts to its affectionate tactics for charging all indirect taxes. And now, this is a real raid on the Greeks' pocket with an increase in indirect taxes on fuel, tobacco, wine, beer, coffee, telephony, and even building. I wonder: What are you talking about? What building is there today in our homeland and even expecting increased revenue from it? Of course there will be an increase in profits from excise duties. But is it possible you haven't learned from the mistakes of the past? In time, any charge on indirect taxes leads to a reduction in consumption and ultimately to reduced revenues for the State. It is obvious that your request is to create a budget that comes out of the figures. Unfortunately, however, Mr Ministers, the figures once again do not come out for the basic state structures, such as our hospitals that operate with enormous shortages and only with the self-sacrificing of their staff. After all, the world cannot withstand another year of cruel austerity without any real prospects for the future. None of us believe that there is only a bright future for us because of what you agreed yesterday at the Eurogroup. Any measures for the debt by 2060, they will make a minimal difference in reality and the daily life of the Greek, when high primary surpluses are required, but at the corner, new pressures are awaiting for more pension reductions and tax-free and tax-free reductions. I do not believe that any Greek or Greek would have felt happiness with the agreed ones. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, finally the time has come for responsible decisions, responsible policies. The vote on another tax stunt is a pretext that only enormous materialistic tendencies will be brought to bear. We cannot allow our country to continue on the same disastrous path towards the cliff. We are all talking about long-term growth, but only growth is not seen in the plans of the government. Growth can't stay in the talk. Real opportunities must be given to Greek and foreign investors and this requires completely different treatments from the government. There is also a need for sincere, but also unpleasant, for the current reforms, which only the Central Union's programme has the courage to include and propose against the so far established, the interests and logic of the project. Ladies and gentlemen, the Central Association has a specific and strict programme that includes, among other things, genuine incentives for the repatriation of Greek funds from abroad for the immediate stimulation of the Greek economy. We are also calling for 50% cuts in the wages of MPs and elected local government. If we ask people to make sacrifices, we have to make sacrifices. We cannot ask the Greek people to be deprived of basic goods and to continue to enjoy the same privileges. Instead, you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, are not prepared to make real areas and reforms, which is why the new budget is another failure within these two years of your government. You must understand and accept that you have failed and free Greece from new adventures and disasters. Of course we are voting against the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u342	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u343	Mr President, I would like for a minute the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u344	It is not on staff, but on the economy of the debate, because the Minister has mentioned some of the elements you have brought, you will be given the floor for your rehabilitation. It's not personal. You want to have something on the substance of it. It is good for the substance of the discussion...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u345	I am not talking about the position of the Minister. I am referring to the position of the previous speaker, Mr Rizzoulis, mentioned twice in my name.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u346	He mentioned it, but on facts. The opinion was referred to. No hybrids were reported, nor...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u347	It is precisely because it has given me a course of a cooperative movement that is responsible for the situation in the primary sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u348	You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u349	I mentioned twice in my name the previous SYRIZA MEP when in my speech from the Step of the House I referred to the situation in the primary sector today. The main and main cause for this is the policies of the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict, which lead to the rapid decline in agricultural income. And here I was told earlier that I did not mention the situation in which the cooperative movement was: the partition, the dissolution or anything else. We don't disagree with that. First of all, I would say that in order for there to be a strong agricultural production we also need a strong cooperative movement. But what did you do to close up with them? You brought a law on cooperatives, which was the main principle of division and reigning. On the one hand, from this two-year point of view, 13% that the cooperative farmers were have reduced to 10%, and on the other hand, there are no incentives to strengthen cooperative schemes, which you have brought with the last cooperative law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u350	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u351	So don't talk at the hanged man's house about rope.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u352	Mr Jellée, either way, the debate on this matter has recently taken place on substance and it has been exhaustive. Mr. Risulis has the floor for 20 seconds. Minister, please don't intervene.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u353	No, to intervene, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u354	Please. Here you go, Mr. Rizzoli.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u355	I didn't even mention that. I referred to what Mr. Jellonis said, wondering how we're going to go to our villages. That is why I have spoken and answered that Mr Jelloni's space is responsible for the dissolution of the cooperative movement and cooperative movement. How's Mr. Jellonis going in the villages, and what does he say about it? That was my question. If he's on his own again, he can answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u356	Well, it's a rhetorical question. An answer was given properly. The opinions have been expressed. Please, Mr. Lykoudis, Member of the River, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u357	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with the saying of a famous American economist and social scientist of Galbraith, John Kenneth, not his son James. You remember this amazing architect of the notorious Plan X, who designed with a government order - as written, to be fairer - in secret and violating, the country's criminal exit from the euro. The father, therefore, has said: “The only function of economic forecasts is to make the astrology seem respectable.” This is the impression that the forecasts for the economic growth of 2017 from official 2.7%, the average prediction of 1.3% of the market or OECD, are coming to my attention. I wonder, for example, whether private consumption can be increased to the estimated amount, when the available income is reduced, when taxes amounting to EUR 2.5 billion, which, with insurance contributions, can exceed EUR 4 billion? Is it possible to suffice investment below 10% of GDP, when we need double, with no internal savings, so also the possibility of adequate bank financing for the economy, with privatisation being mobilised, with foreign investors abstaining? Is it possible to increase exports without reducing the excessive cost of capital of companies? It is no coincidence that such insecure predictions, in my view, that are precarious, that depend on uncertain internal and uncontrolled external factors, are easily converted into political football on a muddy political field. But, ladies and gentlemen, even if one can overcome all of this, what is completely incomprehensible, outrageous and paranoid, but also deliberately misleading, is the outdated celebrations that we are on the way out of the crisis with incoming development, celebrations repeated by the decision of the Eurogroup last year, with the expected short-term debt arrangements in the longer term and, of course, on conditions, with a commitment by the government, with unresolved the issue of the arrogant primary surpluses after 2018, with a new cutting, with the IMF coming back more vigorously. It is, of course, welcome and positive that any measure widening the country's budgetary margins to a minimum, but not offered for celebrations when the fourth memorandum may be before the gates. And if it is, it will be yours, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. Citizens have now felt government policy in their minds. There is no way this time that they should be misled by the 'dracon' of debt. But even if this was the good intention of going over it, fundamental questions that have long been asked remain unanswered. Why did it have to be lost at least two more years to return to where we were in 2014, and indeed, at an unfavourable international juncture, with the climate more unfavourable for Greece, with the prices of oil rising and all that? Why did the government have to load the country with a new unbearable debt to discuss its relief now? Why did the country have to be loaded with new measures of EUR 9 billion? Hey, fish silence. These questions cannot be answered, ladies and gentlemen, because they have been raised quite early and because if they are answered it is like confessing to fraud, it is like confessing to disastrous results, and that is not easy for the government MPs to do so. I get it. SYRIZA's allegedly violent maturation was subjected to violence on the citizens' backs as a laboratory for the implementation of bankrupt ideas, even with an arrogant arrogance and many times with total propaganda. The price of so-called maturation was and remains enormous at all levels: economic, social, institutional, moral. SYRIZA was not able, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, to take advantage of its absolute turn, which you did well and did. He couldn’t use it because he didn’t even have an elementary preparation for making such a turn. As far as the budget is concerned, it is clear that there is no work, there is no compass, there is no development core, there is no basis for a new production model, as you are saying. He's actually centralised and substantiated. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the number dispute, it is undeniable that we should turn our attention to poverty, the limit of which is one third of our fellow citizens, the extreme poverty that has reached 15%, according to OECD figures and a study of 'internationalism' in this regard. We in Greece have taxes in Northern Europe and a social state in southern Europe. The aim of a free, democratic and advanced society cannot be to equate poverty by impoverishment, but promote prosperity through social justice and a fair distribution of the surplus, not the fish of poverty. I really do, ladies and gentlemen, so from the heart I say it, did the humanitarian crisis have ended by magic these years? Did they stop fainting the kids at school? Did the self-sufficient think about it again? Is the foreign occupation over? What exactly has happened? Let us be serious and realise that without structural changes we will not recover or see light. The insurance remains at the edge of the razor. The funds owe EPPY 2.4 billion. The health system is under collapse. Education is our achilles heel. One out of four small and medium-sized commercial enterprises is on the edge of the cliff from tax suffocation and lack of liquidity. Ladies and gentlemen, another famous economist and public man, Keynes, has said: The difficulty is not to develop new ideas while escaping from old ones. Not only can the government produce new ideas, but it is unfortunately caught in prison of rustled ideas, either on the left or on the right side. After all, it is no longer now, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, that I am telling you sincerely - not even the right and the left version of the government's policy. But I think we can really change the way, as long as we dismantle the myths, defend institutions, resist authoritarian behaviour - I believe - as long as we press firmly on the ground of reality and self-awareness, as long as we close our ears on the sirens of left-wing and right-wing populism and demagogers, who are they and those who have destroyed the country, as long as we take responsibility for the responsibilities that they give us, without convenient modifications, all of us, and you and us - all of us! - provided we trust progressive, democratic policies. [[At this point the closing bell of the speaking time of the Z Vice-President of the Parliament is ringing.]] Mr President, just a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, in my first speech from this Step after SYRIZA took over power - it was at the end of February 2015 - I had said with sincere anxiety - some of you may remember it - this: "I fear the first time left", ladies and gentlemen, can soon be turned into society in "never left" because I saw that the same wave of protest that lifted you up was able to break you on the rocks. Now, a lot of people see that. But what is unfair, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, and political and social, is with you to break the rocks and the Left as a political current as a whole. It's unfair historically. That is why I insist - and I will insist against the difficulties and the enslaved efforts - on the undeniable need for climate change and correlations, on the establishment of a large democratic, reformist party, on the strengths of a new left reformist, present, not only because this is why we have a fragmented space for all of us, but because it is very useful nationally in this area and because, above all, serious prospects of stable cooperation are created for the redevelopment policies needed by the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u358	Thank you, Mr. Lykoudi. Independent MEP George - Dimitrios Karras has the floor. You have realised that today there is a more comfort in some way to speakers, which will be removed at some other time, tomorrow or tomorrow, so I would ask you, for reasons of equivalence with colleagues, for self-restraint from everyone. Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u359	Thank you, Mr President. Speaking last year in the same room for the 2016 budget, I had described it as static and I had explained my position because there were issues that if they were not regulated, the economy could not be relaunched. I have therefore brought the example of red loans, business loans, issues that are still unregulated and create a disturbance in the economy in general. I think the 2017 budget is the same. I will call him static again, because from the approach which one is trying to find out there is something missing. It is missing what would show a wing in Greece, a feather, so that the economy can move. He's not preparing it. At the same time, from what we see and hear, it does not have the acceptance and response of society. A budget in order to deliver, in particular, a heavy budget, which is currently bringing into force the tax and insurance measures which have previously been legislated and which have entered into force since 1st of the year, should have the acceptance and response of society. The budget cannot have that character and therefore remains static and I remain concerned about how it can be implemented at the end of the day. I shall then give some examples. Before I say the examples which I would like to invoke, however, I will say something else, which has always remained active. So we see that again in the current situation of the severe economic crisis, the continuing economic crisis, we have the foreign factor. What do I mean by that? At all the critical times of Greece we had to resort to the famous 'foreign factor'. Either in 1821, to get the loans of Independence, or in other periods of bankruptcy, respectively, we had the foreign factor even after World War II. Let me remind you of the Marshall Plan which, in my view, has partially succeeded. But now, the foreign factor, where from bad policies, from bad assessments, from bad circumstances, we have had to take the form of bets and not equals - even though we, Greece, had to have the equal role and prestige of a country belonging to the family of the peoples of Europe - is the European Union. Although I am a fan of the European Union, at this juncture I will call it an 'foreign factor'. And why am I saying that? Because the aim was to guarantee credit, which we could not obtain from any other source. But what did that have to do with it, ladies and gentlemen? It was consistent that when a country is borrowed, when the ordinary citizen is forced to borrow it, it is necessarily provided with the loan and know-how. These are the conditions under which the loan will be used and the creation of conditions which will be met by the debtor to serve the loan. So the know-how given to us by the European Union, by the International Monetary Fund, has had other features. It did not mean being able to maintain Greece in the developed countries, unfortunately. Knowledge was austerity know-how and these measures, which are also included in the budget, which is introduced for vote and ratification, are austerity measures. So it raises the question: Can this budget give a vision? There's a vision coming up. There's a lack of vision. And why is there a lack of vision? There is, at the same time, a government deficit. In the eight-nine years of the crisis and in the previous ten, about, years of loan and deficits, no vision was created, beyond a lifestyle phase. It's the same expression I used in my speech last year. That's what we pay today. Of course, this budget, the voter, also has figures. Many colleagues have mentioned, they have developed the figures. I shall refer to some examples as completely detailed examples, but they also give me the picture of the incompetence - if you like - of the finances of the state, where no one has attempted to put a order in order so that there can also be a balance between the country's revenues. I see, therefore, within the budget plan that guarantees are still malicious and an estimate of 1,748.000,000 is being made, which means that it has not been possible to put a series of outstanding loans to the crafts and industries, which have never been served - it is certain that most of them have been involved - but the state has given guarantees to the banks so that by the guarantees that responsibility can be transferred to the State. So I see that, after eight years, this issue has not yet been settled, the necessary agreements and regulations have not been made and the budget will be called upon to give 1,748,000,000. Similarly, we can see that this is still going on: those of the bankrupt institutions of the state, the general government, have 'openings', are transferring them to the government. An estimate of 544 million is, in my view, more than a joke of the budget, a Greek State's share of the preference shares of Law 3723/2008, a value that belongs to the Greek State and which has a claim from these shares. These are bank shares, the so-called “Haloskouf shares”, which would have a return of 10%, would be redeemed within five years and are currently of zero value. But the budget is written as a requirement of the Greek public. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, Mr President. Finally, I see another issue. We also have a chapter accompanying the budget for the management and exploitation of public property. I am not talking about the one who went to the Public and Public Property Participation Company - it is the one that will be sold, will go to good - but I am referring to the remaining property of the Greek state, which is what has a return? She has never been able to make use of it over time either.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u360	Mr. Comrade, you're finishing up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u361	It has a performance - it says - 33 million euros. But from what? 31 of them are arbitrary compensation protocols. At least to those presenting the courts it is known that no one pays these protocols - it is for the saints - because they presuppose final court proceedings. They shall be suspended until they are finished. Courts never end. There's an over-exploitation. So this issue should have been dealt with in the budget before, so that I do not have the opportunity to bring these examples. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u362	Thank you, Mr. Carras. On behalf of SYRIZA, Mrs Catherine Iglezi has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u363	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the top moments of parliamentary work, the debate on the budget is taking place for the second time by the Left Government. This government as it did last year, with the 2016 budget, thus giving the signal of its policy, seeking a double result: on the one hand, maintaining budgetary equilibrium and achieving budgetary objectives and, on the other, supporting the weakest social strata and, more generally, all those who have been most affected in the last six years of deep economic recession and unresolved implementation of the Memorandums. It is clear that the planning and implementation of policies with a positive social profile is clearly a political choice of the government, stemming from the values of the Left and from the need to serve social justice. Within this framework and under the limitation of available resources, the government is trying, both to strengthen social protection and strengthen the social state and to stimulate public investment. Of course, the criticism that has been made by Opposition regarding the alleged reduction in the budget in terms of its social aspect has already collapsed. The allocation of funds for the extension of the social solidarity income to cover over two hundred and fifty thousand households living in poverty, as well as strengthening health and welfare benefits and education, reflect the Government's efforts to redistribute for the benefit of vulnerable social groups. Gentlemen of counterpopulation, however you are trying to degrade it, the Greek people know it: We are here to support the weakest. At the same wavelengths there is a provision of the budget for the public contribution to protect the main residence of the overhead households. The path towards the degradation of the social protection network, which has characterised the period 2010-2015, is definitively and systematically reversed by the Government, aimed at saving society and country and exiting the comitology. On issues relating to the Public Investment Programme, I think it is unnecessary to stress the importance of increasing the national part of the programme in order to compensate for the proposed reduction in the European Union-funded part. I would, however, like to stress, in particular, that the challenges facing our society concern not only the area of work and social protection. The economic and ecological crisis is confronted and refuelled. We will not get out of the economic crisis if the environment factor is not the cornerstone of our planning. The recent climate conferences have once again highlighted the class sign of climate change. The future of our society, therefore, must be designed on the basis of the anticipation of actions to halt and adapt to climate change, the carbonisation of the economy, the cyclical economy, environmental restoration and upgrading. The Ministry of Environment and Energy acts in this direction. The programmes it manages and is invited to implement show that the country's productive reconstruction has a clear environmental mark. Most of the funding is directed to waste management under the new national plan, to climate change and nature protection projects. The project to complete the Land register and forest maps is under way. Projects relating to the environment are already being procured. Spatial planning shall be put on a new basis and ensure the development of environmental protection and development investments. The false ‘economic development or environmental protection’ has collapsed, making it an inefficient mechanism to impose policies of previous governments in the interests of economic interests and the detriment of society. Our vision is fair growth, that is, sustainable and democratic. Sustainable, because it does not exhaust natural and human resources, but it ensures that they are maintained and reproduced. Democratic, because it means sharing the benefits, deepening democratic institutions, integrating society into political life. This vision is also gradually being established through the budgets of the last two years, despite the suffocating financial framework. So in the budget for next year, which our Government will bring again, I believe that the environmental factor will be upgraded and more clearly reflected in policy-making guidelines. The Public Investment Programme must reflect the government's political will to protect the environment and develop, including purely national environmental protection measures. Colleagues and colleagues, with the vote on the 2017 budget, seals the gradual restoration of economic stability and strengthens the support of the real economy. Our country will leave the board with society standing, and that is why we will work uninterruptedly! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u364	Thank you very much, Mrs English. On behalf of the New Democracy, Mrs. Niki Kerameo has the floor. Our years! Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u365	Thank you, Mr President. I'm looking forward to it. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the state budget, designed for the second time by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, a plan which reflects the Government's choices for the Greek economy and hence for the Greek society, a plan that echoes the ideological intrusions of the government, a plan which demonstrates that the government is in a position to be in a position to reality. In the draft budget for 2017, the growth of the Greek economy is projected by 2.7%. In particular, it is predicted that this growth will lead to a rise in private consumption of 1.8% and an increase in private investment by 9.1%. So, in this report, we all have to be quiet that the situation of our economy is shaking. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd really wish that. However, unfortunately, the study of economic data as reflected in the plan and, above all, the study of the behaviour of the members of the government over the last two years is sufficient to look at this optimistic approach. And I'm going to be specific. Firstly, how exactly will private consumption be increased by 1.8%, when, as from 1 January 2017, new additional taxes of EUR 2.6 billion on citizens and businesses will be imposed, pensions will be reduced by EUR 1 billion and insurance contributions will be increased by EUR 1.4 billion? I'll say it quite simply. What money will the world spend more? Where's he gonna get that money? And it is worth noting, in relation to the imposition of new taxes, that indirect taxes, namely those levied horizontally - those charged by all social groups, irrespective of income - are increased compared with 2015 by 11.2%. And a special reference to VAT, the most indirect tax. VAT, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority, is increasing compared to 2015 by 13.5%. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, can you talk about an increase in private consumption when you increase VAT by 13.5%? And I come to private investment. And here's just questions. How will private investment increase, and especially by 9.1% when you drive away in every way those who want to invest? May I remind you of your bilingualism towards the Chinese investors in the 'COSCO' contract for the port of Piraeus? May I remind you of the Squirrels? Rhodes's investment? The investment in Greek? The recent DESA fiasco fiasco? And despite your recurring, despite these major failures, in 2017, we - listen, listen - increase the revenue from the militarisations by 1.561%. He's in your budget. And how do you speak, ladies and gentlemen, of increasing private investment when, according to GEMH's official figures, 2016 is the first year in the history of the crisis that more businesses have closed than they have opened, when almost eighty-three thousand jobs have been lost, 15-year-old negative record, when tens of thousands of Greek businesses are forced to emigrate to foreign countries to survive? Ladies and gentlemen, I have been travelling to the Peloponnese recently. I visited one of the largest colour industries. So I asked them straight away: How are you doing with taxation? What are you doing? They just answered me, honestly. They told me quite simply: we moved our seat to Bulgaria and we have a branch in Patras. That's exactly how we operate, and that's how we managed to survive. Ladies and gentlemen, let's be honest. Investments will not be strengthened unless liquidity first comes back to the country, to the market. And how will liquidity return, when the issue of red loans remains unresolved, when public debt to private individuals has increased by 63%, distorting competition and harming the few remaining healthy companies, when capital controls have been in place for eighteen months? Ladies and gentlemen, the damage to the Greek economy is huge and it is measurable, damage that also concerns the critical debt issue. The return of the Greek economy to the financial data of the end of 2014 resulted, inter alia, in the worsening of the sustainability conditions of the debt, as recognised by the International Monetary Fund itself. And the government can knit biblicals about the outcome of the Eurogroup, the previous one of December - not least we saw the Prime Minister wear a tie yesterday, so neither is he satisfied with the Eurogroup's result of the debt - but the reality in any case is cruel. And the reality of Greek citizens and the next generations is hard. It's a tough reality, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. And it's hard, firstly, because your government failed to reduce the extra-real primary surpluses of 3.5%. Secondly, because not only did it fail to reduce them, but it accepted that these extraordinarial surpluses should be imposed after the end of the programme, that is, after 2018. Thirdly, it is hard news for Greek citizens, because your Government accepted the introduction of a permanent public spending cut for after 2018. And, fourthly, new measures are open to the International Monetary Fund to participate in the programme. And I say this because neither his demand for lower surpluses was accepted nor for debt reduction. And all this in addition to the EUR 9 billion measures that you have already imposed for the period 2015-2018, in addition to the 3,5 billion cut in public expenditure, which you have already agreed and voted on, in addition to the excess and the allocation of almost all of the Greek assets to an agency for ninety-nine years - while our loans are for thirty-three or, anyway, for much less - an agency under the control of lenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to close up a few words on education. I will not go into the systematic deterioration of education in the past two years nor in our fundamental value differences in how we understand education. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Today's debate is on the budget and I will therefore confine myself to the specific issue of the expenditure entered in it. I am pleased to note that the budget provides for an increase in the Ministry of Education's expenditure by EUR 161 000 000. I repeat, by EUR 161,000,000, not by EUR 257,000, Mr. Secretary of State for Education, mentioned in the Ministry of Education press report. Two questions are being raised at the same time. First question: will there be this money to be given for education? I guess there will be. Secondly, if we assume that there will be any, how exactly will they be spent? It is estimated that 95% of this increase will be given wages and pensions for primary and secondary education. That, of course, is positive. However, it is positive if it is linked to a specific target, since it is linked to a strategic plan. If one calculates that the average cost per assignment is 16,000 euros, the predicted increase is translated into about six and a half thousand in primary and about a thousand five hundred in secondary. I will not dwell on the announcements made by the ministers on the recruitment of twenty-thousand teachers. I would point out, however, that even these few recruitments - if the money is actually found and if they do go to recruitment - will, indeed, give a breath to the educational system. I should like to close, Mr President, by saying this: I can only honestly and trustworthyly and on the basis of what study will be carried out on the basis of what staffing plans. Which of the thousands of gaps will be first covered in what specialities, especially since you have already agreed with the lenders in the famous three-year plan that only kindergartens and assistants will be recruited? How do these recruitments go hand in hand with your commitments to the institutions? Ladies and gentlemen, the future of our children deserves a minimum plan, a minimum responsible national strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u366	Thank you, Mrs. Kerameus. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-five students and students and two educational attendants from the Parga High School of Preveza. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Chaakalot, you have your honor. On behalf of SYRIZA, my colleague Mr Excellency has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u367	Salvation year 2014, in New Democracy, according to PASOK, during the River. We all lived there, happiness was over! Ladies and gentlemen, I should first of all like to refer to the very critical period for our country, during which the budget for debate is being tabled, at the time when we are negotiating to close the second assessment. This is not a triumph for triumphs, but the Eurogroup's recent debt decision is an important success and a decisive step out of the crisis. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] But what do we see from the Opposition again? Remuneration, catastrophe and misery, in full harmony with their paramedical Minded friends, ripped by windows and newspapers. However, what serious political force can ignore the positive debt write-down step? What serious political power can it overlook the efforts made to restore European regularity at work? Only an irresponsible and prosecuting opposition would not recognize the obvious positive outcome of the Eurogroup meeting, when the Greek Government is internationally recognized as an equal and claiming partner in political circles and financial literature. The government is struggling hard against the unreasonable demands of the IMF to impose new measures and to maintain surpluses of 3.5% after 2018. The government's tactics are due to a debt relief of 22% of GDP, i.e. at least 45 billion, and to the lockdown of interest rates with which our country has borrowed 1.5%. Let us now see the budget being voted on. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to focus on the forecasts of this budget for education and research, as well as social protection. According to the budget submitted to Parliament and despite the serious financial problems faced by our country, the expenditure on education of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs is projected to increase. More specifically, for 2017 expenditure on education is projected to increase by 257 million, i.e. by 5.3% compared to the 2016 budget. Similarly, there is a small percentage increase in the ratio between these expenditures on GDP, from 2.80% to 28%. It is important here to stress that since the 2016 budget stopped the continuous reduction of the expenditure on education planned, decided and implemented by the previous governments. Allow me only a small comparison between the budget decided by the previous government, through the mid-term of 2015-2018 and voted with L.4263/2014, with the current government for the expenditure to be spent on 2017. A simple comparison shows an increase in expenditure by EUR 691 million or by 15.6%, i.e. a percentage increase in expenditure ratio from 2.15% to 2.85%. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not quote these figures to applaud the work of the government. Who will not recognise that, despite an increase in spending on education, these are still extremely low? This catalytic comparison is made in order for everyone to understand what would happen in education too, if the political change had not taken place in January 2015. At this point, let me refer to some of the key elements of the strategic planning of the Ministry of Education that is being implemented: Strengthen the full-day primary school and extend it to the small-scale primary schools. New high school with strengthening teaching, material rationalization, extension of the teaching year, reduction of the courses considered, and pilot implementation of a descriptive evaluation. Upgrade of special treatment. Upgrade of technical and vocational education. Development of apprenticeship programmes for PES and IEK students for their smooth entry into the labour market. Establish a single area for higher education, research and technology. Education of refugees. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now see the social person in the budget. The economic and social crisis of the past few years, but also our left consciousness, made it imperative to implement a social protection plan. With the main aim of alleviating social and economic inequalities and in order to protect our vulnerable fellow citizens, we are reforming the welfare state with a better organisation of benefits, increasing the services provided and modernising the structures. Let us look at the numbers: Institutionalisation and financing of the social income of solidarity for the whole country with 760 million for two hundred and fifty thousand households. Additional support in the health, education and welfare sectors with EUR 300 million. Protection of the first home for vulnerable households with 100 million euros. In this context, a series of initiatives are also planned in the field of social policy and in particular: a pilot disability assessment method programme, a single social benefit payment institution, a new framework for combating the lack of housing of vulnerable groups. Ladies and gentlemen, for the first time in the past six years, the budget targets have been met for two consecutive financial years and, indeed, at a time when we have been called upon to deal with and manage increasing flows of refugees at a significant financial burden, due to additional needs for State subsidies to the stakeholders. In spite of all the difficulties, we are presenting today a budget which is not based on an anti-social neoliberal programme, but which puts the social state as a priority, does not create surpluses from the mass sales of the public service, does not adopt the deregulation of the labour market in order to achieve its objectives. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, that's what you're afraid of. You don't want the success of the program. You don't want the government's success. You do not want the country out of the board, so you continue to invest in danger, and you are trying, on a vain basis, to convince the citizens that we are going to vote, that we will fall out of the targets and that the cut will be activated, that our government is heading for a fourth memorandum. But the fasting carved dreams of the people. You have not yet recovered from the trauma caused by the loss of power. You continue to dream of calamities and disasters, so that you can give us more motives to disprove you daily. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u368	Thank you. Mr. Gregos has the floor from Golden Dawn for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u369	Thank you very much. Some general comments on the beginning. I have listened very carefully to the prior ministers. I will refer to Mr Stathakis later. For Mr Muzala, in the poor and apologetic style, we are holding what he said about illegal immigrants, 'those who will join'. That's what he said. Let's see how many will join. But, of course, everyone will join rights, but without obligations. For the Minister of Tourism I could say that Greek tourism could have gone much better if a relevant campaign had been carried out against Turkey and European citizens were particularly informed that Turkey is a terrorist state and possibly anyone who goes there for tourism can be found dead. It would be a blow to Turkey's tourism. And other things could have happened. Siomple threatens us with Grexit, if they don't take it, he says necessary measures and that this is a one-way road. That's what he says in his message. We also have a message to Mr Soible: that Greece existed before the euro and there can be after the euro. I would like to make a comment on the visit by the Members of the Golden Dawn to Kastelorizo. Of course Golden Dawn would be in Kastelorizo! Where else could it be, if not there? Of course, we also saw some embarrassing things there in Kastelorizo. We saw a number of Members who could not even look in binoculars across the coast. We must say that the inhabitants of these islands do not need wishes. From doctors they need and, of course, from military armour, as all Greek islands need. The speakers of the Golden Dawn have so far been mentioned with a lot of figures relating to the 2017 budget and proposals have also been tabled, based on our positions and programme. We're talking about a virtual and inapplicable budget, just like your false promises before every pre-election period, but also during SYRIZA - ANEL - Merkel - Symble - Lagard and your other loan-to-call co-workers. The objective: the economic bleeding of the Greek citizens - the Greeks - the launching of unemployment at 35% to 38%, the complete dismantling of the insurance funds, those that those governments looted, the dismantling of primary production, where there is still, the closure of small and medium-sized enterprises, particularly in our tested islands by increasing VAT, but also in urban centres, over-taxation in primary sectors. Really, have you bothered getting out of your offices and taking a walk across town? Everywhere you'll see shops with "POULT", "COMMERCE". Of course, all that is now rented in Greece is apartments in illegal immigrants. At the place of shops that once maintained the economy and gave jobs, there is now an abandonment and debts that unfortunately lead to even suicides. These figures, of course, are not recorded in any budget code. What are the revenues of your budget from publications of property, deposits of political persons, large-scale journalists, party organs, interconnected big-workers and canalarchs? Nothing, nothing. What's the revenue from the lists of known robbers? What of the smuggling and trampling? Some scanners say they'll be placed, but the smuggling and the smuggling is wrathing. Suffices to take a walk to the main streets of the big cities and the squares, to find out what's going on there. And this, of course, is again being carried out by foreigners. The Golden Dawn has repeatedly put questions about this particular problem, but no action has been taken. We'll see if anything happens along the way. We're too sceptical. The increase in fuel tax is the gravel of many professional groups. It concerns farmers, taxi drivers, transport companies, small hotel businesses, which are rings in a huge economic chain that breaks and breaks the economy. Even coffee, the product that is second in consumption after oil, is taxed. It is also taxed on fixed telephony, but also on top of that because it is such a thing, which is why you are constantly taxing it. In every vital area we have cuts, such as health, defence and education. In Greece, education is not free of charge. The costs for schools and for all types of secondary education shall be borne by the budget of each family throughout the school year. The data on problems in education, passed to parents, are typical: From 2009 to 2016 primary school teachers fell from eighty - two thousand six hundred seventy - seventy to sixty - six thousand ninety. A similar reduction in the proportion of teachers and pupils was the same. In 2017, therefore, state expenditure on education is frozen. To be precise, there is a marginal increase in FPI expenditure in relation to the 2016 budget by EUR 257 million, which represents an increase in GDP of only 0.05%. It is a mockery and mockery of society of claims that are technically leaking into the pro-government press on the part of the government that, at the beginning of the 2016 budget and then with the one just submitted, it has become a brake on the continuous cuts and reductions in education expenditure in previous years. The increase in expenditure on education is a constant request from the educational federations, the ILO, primary education, the OMEs and all teachers. This problem is still currently and constantly growing. It is true that all post-government PASOK and New Democracy governments have paid off the share of GDP expenditure on education, culminating in the Medium-term governance of New Democracy - PASOK, which had been voted on by Law 4263/2014. Today's coexistence, forgetting what he was saying as an opposition or as an ex-parliamentary force, comes today to continue with the Memorandumary Policies and to "frozen" the spending on education, proving once again inconsistent and false. Greece is again one of the last countries in Europe and under too many OSCE countries at the expense of education. Countries like Skopje and Bulgaria spend much more on education than Greece, while comparisons at absolute prices with other eurozone countries are simply depressing. It goes without saying, therefore, that with the minimum money available for education in 2017, there will be a further year of enormous uncovered needs, as well as a malfunction of the school units. It is certain that an extraordinary budget will be required within the year to meet the school's operational needs and to reallocate resources from programmes in particular for primary education institutions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The state must in practice strengthen the public school and its employees, so as to support the Greek youth apprenticeship, which is the future of this place. You are, of course, taking care of the training of the applicants, even if they do. Development is a concept that has become a candy you use as it suits you. The increase in business tax, trade fee or tax advances will lead to the closure of many businesses but also to many individuals' unemployment. Another tragic outcome is the preservation of private property, after giving the relevant permissions for this to foreign funds. All the chambers of the country have denounced all these manipulations. Of course, you do not make any difference. Apart from education, it's not, of course, free of charge, neither the health that is falling apart. What are you doing with your financial scandals? Nothing! You have covered them and those of the New Democracy and those of PASOK and yours. We should inform the Greek people here that no immunity of SYRIZA Members has ever been passed, as in the case of Stathakis. What about AOZ? Here, of course, we are talking about a 'carabinat' betrayal, following on from what the previous Government of New Democracy - PASOK has done. Who's finally to blame for the debt? Why haven't they been punished? Where are the stolen ones? Why don't we produce anything? Why are the Greek industrial units closing down and why did the craft industries disappear? What about the parties' loans? Why are the banks not immediately due? Why are first home seizures being made to individuals and the corruption and interlocutory parties being in the unavoidable state? Why did you dismantle the funds by giving pensions to foreigners with virtual data? Why were you cutbacks in national defence, when we could have weapons systems from Russia, such as S-300 missiles, as well as Shuhoe fighters, against some agricultural products? Why doesn't NATO leave us, you'll tell me. Because the waste and the assignments of your own children continue. Because the control mechanisms are understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u370	Mr. Grego, finish it up. We can't go on like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u371	I shall conclude, Madam President. At a time when workers' wages have not just become 750 euros, but have been reduced to 200 euros or 100 euros, you continue your memorandum commitments. You stay locked up in your offices, isolated and hunted by the people he trusted you. The left-hand parentheses will be closed very quickly, but leaving the total disaster behind. We are here to fight for the fairness of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u372	Madam President, speak more than three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u373	What do you want, Mr. Papadopoulos?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u374	It can't be done all the time. When are the others going to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u375	Everyone keeps the time, because some Members will be able not to speak. Mr Emmanuelides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u376	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the budget is a well-known top parliamentary procedure which is essentially about giving a vote of confidence. The criticality of this parliamentary procedure, therefore, makes it possible to articulate a responsible political speech. The budget shall be discussed a few days after the decisions of the Eurogroup on 5 December. His decisions have been drawing up a roadmap of exiting the crisis that has shaken our country and our people for six years. We were summoned by the elections of January and September 2015 to administer the memoranda that your governments, the governments of the New Democracy and the PASOK, with their devastating policy led to bankruptcy, bankruptcy, economic, political, social and, worse, moral, as you turned society into a multi-carcinoma. In this drugged field, the Left was called on to go. It is historically confirmed that on the left history always calls it to the difficult. We didn't faint. We have committed our historic and social debt to the full, knowing that we would go through the condolences of a foreign and a local system, the system which has been working since the first moment in the brief parentheses. He knew the system that every day the Left was in the government would emerge the entire zobis of a guilty political system that prevailed during the Migration. With a broken society, destroying the productive fabric, with a debt-hard for our country, we went and went in the two years of governance. In our political misery we have often affected society through the memorial policies that you have brought us. We were called upon to accept a hard memorandum threatening the burglary of social cohesion. On this path one single goal was and we have: at the end of the four-year period to lead our country to the clearing of economic and social reconstruction, to rebuild a society based on values that you have with your policies collapsed, to build a country that operates in normality. Ladies and gentlemen, as a political and, in particular, as an educationer, I am aware that you cannot restore normality in the country unless you establish an educational system that makes the individual responsible for his individual and collective course, an educational system that interacts with human personality and gives it the characteristics of the citizen, which will become the same fate in his own destiny; an educational system based on the principles of liberty and social justice. The government puts the burden on the structure of education in preprimary and elementary education, i.e. on the foundations of the educational system, where the individual’s personality is firmly built. We place emphasis on a school for all, a school that enables all children to move forward and advance. Our concern is to create a public school that is appealing for real education without social exclusion as a result of the economic inequalities of society. The 'excellence' of us is a social demand, not a result of a financially marked social deck. Our Member - and in practice we have proved this - is support through the educational system of children with particular learning needs. Lysia's saying in "Super-Impose", "sees body accidents in the soul's medical profession", became the project for us in practical support through the strengthening of the Special Education Programs. In fact, this support is of particular value, as it is made within suffocating frameworks of ruthless budgetary discipline. Besides, it's a sign of social sensitivity when you're giving out of your posture. [[At this point, the Honourable Member's speech bell is ringing.]] Ladies and gentlemen, with the budget that we are discussing, we are taking a decisive step in reversing deregulation and dismantling. The increase in expenditure on education by 15.6% over the previous year demonstrates this priority. Papism is not enough, but it shows the direction. After seven years of deregulation and dismantling, decisive steps were taken this year in restoring normality in schools, normality that rabies undermined and fought it by the parties who, with the diamond-pools and Arabic practices, led the public school to its systematic and deliberate rendition. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Madam President. Our differences, moreover, in education are the mirror of our class differences. School for everyone is our choice. School for a few is your choice. This society has experienced it for a long time. Ladies and gentlemen, we are aware of our historic role. The government, from the flesh of the people, despite the memorial size, determined by the budget to lead the country to the normality that marks social and economic reconstruction. Unfortunately, for you, you will be on your way for several years and after 2019 with shadow ministers and that's because for years you will be in the shadow of history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u377	Thank you. Mrs Kefalayannis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u378	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to allow me to make a small comment as a resident of this city and as a MP in Athens, that it is incomprehensible that the capital of the country is constantly becoming a vandalism field. It is inconceivable that public and private property should be destroyed and that no one should take responsibility. It is incomprehensible to return to images and situations that the country has so expensively paid in the past. And I'm wondering, isn't there a little sense of responsibility from the government? Is there or is there no Ministry of Citizen Protection? Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of participating in a budget speech for the tenth consecutive year. The first was December 2007 for the 2008 budget. It has been almost ten years that have shocked Greece and Europe, as well as the whole world. Nothing's the same anymore. In these ten speeches - I have raised in all these previous days - the entire evolution of the Greek is shaping and not just crisis. From the rise in the years of prosperity, in the years of recession and memoranda. Ten years of constant changes, frustrations, expectations, hopes, cancellations, efforts, small or large victories again, painful backwards. Ten years after the post-government structure was shaken, the party system entered a profound structural crisis and politics and politicians aimed at society. The thread that's been joining these ten years? Personal anxiety, responsibility for society. How from where we stand, whether as an opposition or as a government, we will be able to offer home. A lot has changed since then. The only thing that was not only maintained, but unfortunately worsened, was populism, easy solutions and the construction of an alleged truth. Greece had the sad first with the emergence of the crisis showing up at the same time all the gray phenomena of fear, populism and the extremes that we are seeing today throughout Europe. No self-awareness, no thoughts about how we got this far and how we'll get out of the vicious circle of crisis. Whatever recovery effort it was, it was scanned by populist zeroing. At the end of 2014, after hard work, great obstacles and, above all, great sacrifices of the Greek people, we had managed to "break" the painful European cycle. We had succeeded in building a path of stability, which gave way and positive development prospects for the country. Today, after two years of unbelievable relics, ideas and prosecuting choices, all previous efforts have been lost. Unfortunately, our country has entered an orbit of economic decomposition, in a phase of social regression, in a dark period of introvert, steam, lack of confidence. Within this framework we are today discussing the budget for 2017, an unrealistic budget, a budget full of small or large contradictions. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me not to refer so much to the figures or technical details of the budget. After all, our rapporteur and many other colleagues have already done so. However, I would like to stress the absolute lack of contact by the current government with reality. It is worth wondering how a government that defines itself as a "left" is so far from the people, so far from its problems. The country has been submerged in a long-term recession, society has been kneeled by taxes, the middle class is crushed with unforeseen economic and social effects, the public's available income has been drastically reduced. How can you speak of social justice when the budgetary direction is new taxes and even at the expense of our weakest fellow citizens? The growth for you is matched by the tax raid. The first - time lie that taxes are supposed to be levied by creditors has turned into a cynical confession. Taxes were your political choice. As a result of this choice, the private economy is drowning. The banks lost around EUR 40 billion, due to their closure and the imposition of capital controls by you, which are also planned to stay in 2017. Furthermore, the result was the phenomenon of Brain drain, namely the departure of thousands of young people with high skills and knowledge leaving our country, living, working and producing wealth in other countries. Furthermore, free professionals are not able to withstand unfavourable taxation and are unable to plan their obligations. Finally, all pensioners have had a reduction in their main and supplementary pensions, and of course we also have the cut of the EASA, while the new insurance is literally in the air. This is the grim reality and that is the truth, as the Greek people experience every day. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to refer to this point also in the area of culture, whose responsibility I have from the officer's point of view. If you asked me before the government took over in which area could a left-wing government be rescued, I would honestly tell you culture. Unfortunately, however, there was a tragic disapproval here too. Another myth, the supposed organic relationship left - civilization, collapsed. Within two years three ministers have changed, there has been a disturbance where no one has ever been in the past, and there has been no coherent strategy for what they want to do in culture, no minimum resources have been provided for the dignified functioning of all culture structures. Instead of all this, we have lived up to the phenomena of ideological obsessions, dissolution of choices, the degradation of historical institutions such as the Athens and Epidaurus Festival and one is the only sure thing: both in culture, ladies and gentlemen, we need a whole resumption based on full respect for the forces of the country's culture, which will be based on the absolute respect for free expression and creation, a total resumption based on transparency and dignity, ensuring our cultural heritage, supporting modern Greek culture, extroversion and interconnection with the new technologies and the digital world, that is, all that have been missing in this dark period of the last two years. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2017 budget turns back on culture. He does not care very much about him, as he does not care about the urgent daily needs of the Greek people, a people who urgently need to recover his lost confidence, to believe in his powers again, to create a strong identity, away from obsolete stereotypes and stereotypes of the past, which will awaken his self-confidence and will for change and creation. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the 2017 budget is another deadlock for you, another attempt to escape from the painful reality that you so despised. Our 'no' is self-evident. The Greek people also repeat this to you every day. For the first and last time - I hope - listen to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u379	Mr Alexandros Meikopoulou, MP of SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes. Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u380	Thank you very much, Madam President. I am quite surprised by the mythical way in which the Opposition - and especially the Civic Opposition - faces this state budget. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to explain exactly what I mean here. You are very well aware that this budget is an illusion, abruptly, derivative of a specific budgetary policy, followed in recent years at European Union level. There's a specific name. It's called a Stability and Growth Pact. It has been followed for many years by recession and austerity spirals, which also produces concrete results in countries that are experiencing this particular economic crisis. Therefore, basing this kind of argument on the state budget in question has more micro-political and micro-participatory time than on elements of serious political intervention. You too know very well that the particular recession that is taking place in Europe has its first very serious effects in other countries of the European Union. We have seen what happened in Austria in the past, recently what happened in Italy, what is happening in France. European citizens do not reject persons, i.e. the Italian did not reject Renci because he likes Bepe Grillo or the North Liga representative. The French don't reject Olad, because they like Fillon or Lepen. European citizens reject a particular mixture of economic policy followed, and therefore the issue at issue and bet is the change in Europe's own nature and not to engage in such a micro-political and micro-party confrontation. In my opinion, two are the main axes on which the specific state budget of 2017 is based. The first axis is directly related to the restructuring of the Greek debt. We are no longer talking about a simple certificate of sustainability, as our predecessors have sought to convince us in the previous period of their governance that it is sustainable and that simply a certificate will ensure that it is also sustainable and that it comes out on the markets. We saw at Eurogroup yesterday a very positive development where at least the short-term means of addressing the Greek debt were agreed for principle. The debate on medium and long-term measures opens up, and precisely this three-way is the vehicle that will lead us to economic normality over the next few years. Is that enough on its own, ladies and gentlemen? Is the sustainable treatment of Greek debt sufficient to lead us to the normality and stability phase? In my opinion, no. Because if you do not confront Greece's internal deficits, which reproduce the debt, a simple arrangement will not lead to a well-considered normality and stability. The second central axis, on which this state budget is based, is related to the revenues and also to the compensatory efforts of this government. No one disputes, no one doubts that the share of revenue for another year is higher than the share of income tax. That's a truth. There are high tax burdens, and that is how we can cover the proceeds. This in itself is not a progressive treaty so that citizens can understand the difference in the top thing: in their pockets. But there are attempts by the Greek Government to compensate for this. I am referring to very specific actions, which concern, first of all, the increase in the budget in relation to three top areas of the state's operation: health, education and social protection. We are talking about an increase in the area of the public investment programme with more than EUR 250 million. We are talking about EUR 100 million, which will be co-financed from now on by the Greek state borrowers, who are unable to pay even a instalment of the red loans they have received. In other words, there are intentions from this government, which are budgeted in this bill, which are trying to compensate for what I have just said, that the majority of them concern income tax once again in the income section. To be honest, colleagues and colleagues, no one doubts and doubts that the Greek society has lifted a disproportionately huge burden in recent years and obviously we too have the share of our responsibility, which we are taking on. We know very well that we have also made difficult decisions which have brought specific social groups and specific social groups into trouble. However, what we can call for at the moment is that there is a real intention of bringing together a leading contradiction: on the one hand, the need for fiscal adjustment measures and, on the other hand, the agonizing effort of a government to protect small and medium-sized strata, to help the world and to take measures that will relieve citizens. That is the truth, and that is what we are trying to capture in this particular state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u381	Thank you, Mr Meikopoulou, for the time. We can say what has to be said and what is more condensed. Now, Mr. Maniotis has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u382	Ladies and gentlemen, the second SYRIZA budget, the second SYRIZA negotiation, seems to be the second Harvard prize, the worst negotiator in the world for Mr Tsipras. You are approaching for your second prize and it seems you will succeed! To clarify a few things, however, what you have done in the recent past and, in particular, the relocation of the country, of all the public property to foreigners, we, as Democratic Incorporation, undertake to overturn and restore public property, as a matter of content, as an object for the authorisation of the Greek people and the national Parliament - in order to come together. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] But let's see the budget now. Second budget SYRIZA: EUR 4.5 billion less revenue for Greek households in 2017. I repeat: EUR 4.5 billion less income in Greek households. I wonder how private consumption will increase by EUR 4.5 billion less revenue in Greek households? All this comes with another 4.8 billion extra measures that will apply in 2017. Numbers, because it matters. For pensions of 570 million less. For CSR, who disappears, 586 million less. Increase of 501 million farmers' and free professionals' contributions. Is this all left? Are they progressive? Are they developmental? Or are we constantly walking worse and worse in a situation which is non-refundable? I now come to the Eurogroup and I am glad that my dear colleague, Mr Chakalotos, is here. I take the opportunity to reveal here in the national Parliament that I and Mr Tsakalotos had the pleasure of attending the Euro-Social Finance Ministers dinner on Monday evening, which they had just met on Eurogroup and were going to meet the next day for Ecofin. Here, in the national Parliament, I will testify to what I said as a representative of the Democratic Incorporation. I would very much like Mr Tsakalotos to tell us what he said at this meeting of the Socialists. So, representing the Democratic Compact, I tabled our deepest disappointment - and Mr Moscovisi chaired this dinner - the deepest disappointment of the Greek people and the Democratic Association for the results of the Eurogroup. And the comparison is made for 2016 with 2012. In 2012 we had a direct nominal reduction in the country's debt by 61% of the Gross Domestic Product. We had 61% of the perpetrator, directly, in a year. I come in 2016, on Monday's Eurogroup: Reduction in forty years by 20% of public debt. Let's make a little breakthrough every year. It's about 0.5 percent a year. The bad government in 2012 cut off the public debt by 61% of Gross Domestic Product. Left-wing patriots, the negotiating giants, who govern the country in 2016, cut public debt by 0.5%. Which is more brave, more effective, more progressive, more beneficial for Greek society? I have also put forward our next objection to the commitment - a loop of the lasting primary surpluses of 3.5% of GDP, which, as I said, kills the economy and erases all hope from the Greek citizen who has suffered so much sacrifices in recent years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u383	Deposit a painting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u384	Ladies and gentlemen, do not engage in dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u385	Who has the opportunity to commit for the next 10 years after 2018? Because until 2018 it is certain. Who can commit for the next ten years that the country will have a primary surplus of 3.5%? With what right did Mr Tsipras co-sign this, represented by each Minister of Finance? And there is one third: all this in the absence of the International Monetary Fund. The International Monetary Fund, in order to participate, will ask for further measures. Because the second evaluation has not been closed. I say this in order to get between us. Minister, has the second evaluation been closed? I guess not.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u386	We're on shut-downs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u387	You'll stay at the shutdowns. Don't just stay in the building. At least you didn't attend the dinner. Of course, we have the countermeasures, brave, patriotic, left. General Burned with Golden Dawn in Kastelorizo. The only Minister of National Defence in a Western country in uniform. A disgrace! What other Minister for National Defence is being released and photographed in a military uniform? What are those kangiosites? Are you proud? You, SYRIZA colleagues, are proud of your government's Minister of National Defence? And to supplement with two very dear ministers, whose ministries I follow very carefully, my dear Mr. Spirtzi and my dear Mr. Stathakis. Mr. Spirtzis for the 2017 budget tells us that in 2017 the deficit of the supervising bodies will increase by 30%. The deficits from EUR 322 million will go to EUR 449 million, colleagues of SYRIZA. There'll be a 30% increase in deficits. The urban transport deficits that are for poverty, because the urban bus is not released, in 2016 will increase by 100 million. The two thousand buses that need to be released have only become eight hundred. And the urban bus routes have been delayed for up to one hour. Is that a progressive policy? And move on to the second Minister, but he is moving in a slow, very slow manner, Mr Stathakis. Mr Stathakis said something this afternoon which I would very much like to explain. On the subject of the DESCA he said: "But did you want us to outlaw children? Our government is not illegal. It does not stipulate Community regulations’, implying that the privatisation process of the TECF is illegal. But, Mr. Stathakis, Mr. Skourletis in June 2016, six months ago, when he told us that: "The privatisation of the TESF will proceed and close. Don't worry...' didn't he know it was illegal? And we're telling you the Skourlet was wrong. Prime Minister Tsipras in September, when he accepted in Maximus the representatives of 'SOCAR' and said to them: 'I take it as a negotiation from Skourletis, why is it not good and I assign it to my adviser, Mr Liako, who also made him a State Secretary, did not know that the agreement with 'SOCAR' is illegal? And we who have been watching do we not know that for two, two and a half years, the Italian 'SNAM' has been involved in privatization of the ICM?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u388	Mr. Maniotis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u389	Where's the illegality? Four hundred million lost by the national economy and three billion investments have dynamised and destroyed an energy, strategic relationship in order for Greece to become a Southeast European energy hub. Is there hope? Hope exists and there is in the new reformist, democratic body that will finally take place, because this fragmentation of democratic party forces within 2017 will cease to give you the opportunity to smile as a force. The democratic party after the next elections will be the second parliamentary force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u390	I would ask that the time be respected. They're two hundred six speakers, and we're still in the forty-sixth. The ego of anyone who wants to say it all, you understand that it works at the expense of the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u391	At the expense of SYRIZA MPs it works.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u392	Mr. Papadopoulos, you're constantly complaining, but I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u393	Madam President, I am very sorry, but it is at the expense of the Members of the SYRIZA. What don't you understand? Where's this situation going? Only SYRIZA colleagues are limiting their time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u394	Mr. Mitafidis, MP from SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u395	Ladies and gentlemen, the representatives of the former government bloc, who have led the place to today's deadlock, have a simple answer here. You could not have voted for the third memorandum and won the elections. Now you've become resistance all of a sudden? Were you an antimony? You are obviously not addressing people with a memory of goldfish. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak on educational expenditure, without celebrations, of course, but rather on a catalytic comparison of the new budget with that of the PASOK-New Democracy. In particular, there is provision for an increase in the Ministry of Education expenditure in relation to the 2016 budget by EUR 257 million or around 5.3%. We also have a small percentage increase in the ratio between these expenditures on GDP from 2.80%, which was 2.85%. Thus, the government continues its policy of starting with the 2016 budget, which has put a brake on the continuous, previous years, reductions in expenditure on education. This is evidenced by comparing the 2017 budget of the current government with the expenditure decided by the Government of New Democracy - PASOK with the mid-term programme of 2015-2018 and had already voted with Law 4263/2014. If we compare these costs, then, we find that, with the 2017 budget, the costs of the Ministry of Education are increased by EUR 691 million or by 15.6%. In other words, from 2.15% of GDP expenditure decided by the previous government in 2017, the new budget provides for an increase in expenditure to 2.85% of GDP. Of course these costs remain extremely low and are very far from the 15% historical demand for which an entire generation has been bleak and not just. But if the political change had not taken precedence in January 2015, education would still be undermined by the crumbs of the state budget. Of course, we should also add the investment costs for education, research, culture and sport, which are an important part of the Public Investment Programme through the support of actions contributing to spiritual, cultural and social development. Education, scientific research, technology and innovation as key elements of the knowledge economy contribute, as you know, to increasing productivity and strengthening well-defined competitiveness. As you know, we are trying to modernise infrastructure and disseminate knowledge to young people. The projects are included in the programme: ‘Infrastructure, building facilities, equipment of HEIs and TEIs, as well as primary and secondary school units’. I would also like to say here that the achievement of this objective and the changes that we are going to make to the production process will also be achieved through actions through the co-financed NSRP programmes on education and lifelong learning, which much of this programme is implemented by the Ministry of Education and Research. The Public Investment Programme also finances research and technology activities, industrial research development programmes and research support programmes. Also important are the participation of the Public Investment Program for Culture projects, such as construction, repair of museums, conservation of monuments and archaeological sites, as well as their overall emergence. Total appropriations for these actions amount to EUR 711 million, corresponding to 10.53% of the total of the Public Investment Programme. There are currently twenty-three EUR 30 million programmes in progress to support young researchers. In our effort, therefore, to stir up the wave of scientific capacity from abroad, we are promoting another innovative initiative, which provides for a total amount of EUR 30 million to finance young primarily researchers, with a view to strengthening their academic curriculum and research skills, in order to improve the prospects of their academic, research career. The Ministry, through the Operational Programme for the Development of Human Resources, Education and Lifelong Learning, calls on the EITs and the research bodies of the country to submit proposals for the action co-financed by the European Social Fund entitled ‘Support for researchers with emphasis on young researchers’. The purpose of the project is to implement small proposals, which will be submitted by teams of young researchers. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing.]] I'd like to say another word. Yesterday the Prime Minister of the country was accused of going "recreational travel to Cuba", I think the speaker of the Centro Association. What all mankind knew seems to have been ignored by the Parliamentary spokesman of the Centron Association. I would like to say to him, however, that in the Cuban schools there is an inscription of their historic leader of independence, José Martti: 'Freeman is the cultivated man'. With the Cuban revolution - listen to this - those who condemned education in the role of the poor relative - 13% of the gross national product in Cuba since the 1960s have been allocated to education. Read the reports of the "Communist" World Bank, which says Cuba is included with Finland, Canada, South Korea and Singapore in the first class of countries with the highest level of education from an academic point of view and despite the great financial narrowness, with decent pay to teachers. So if we have something to learn, we need to know not only from all these neoliberal fascists with the Armani who are running the test in Europe, but from those who have fought for people's rights in the poorest regions of the world and have an American dagger base on their back!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u396	Mr Metarakis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor. Mr. Metarakis, watch out for the year too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u397	Madam President, I will be replaced by Mr Tragakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u398	It will therefore be preceded by Mr Tragakis, Member of the New Democracy Piraeus Council.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u399	First of all, I thank you for your understanding and Mr Mitarakis and all of you. I would just like to say that I was rapporteur in the 1992 budget. You realize my experience. This budget is a reflection of the total and even failure at all levels of the SYRIZA - ANEL government. It is the painful print of a two-year government, the tragic manoeuvres of which they are burdening the country even today and will be continually burdening it. The cost of negotiating Mr. Tsipras is paid every day in a declining credit system, with suffocating taxation and a decline in income. It is characteristic that the Governor of the Bank of Greece has spoken of a loss of 86 billion euros from the negotiation, while the head of the ESM, Mr. Klaus Regling, has spoken of 100 billion. The economy has returned to the recession, where it remains. The economic climate collapsed, the market bunkers multiply, the overdue private-public debts escalated, the cost of borrowing increased, the non-performing loans increased. Citizens who have been sacrificed since the beginning of the crisis have now suffered the painful experience of judging and comparing in 2014 with today's reality. So it's quite clear what happened. SYRIZA - ANEL threw the previous government, dragged the country into a third unjustified memorandum, symphonized and muddled their political opponents, loaded the Greek family with huge burdens, dismantled the real economy. All this for? To try to reach 2018 where we were three years ago. Ladies and gentlemen, before I say a few words about the budget, I would like to present to the Government a number of political experiences from my long presence in this Chamber. You have opened many fronts, I have told you in committee, Minister. My experience has shown that when we don't close a front, we don't have to open another one and you have it all open and it's still open. First, it's the front in the economy. The Prime Minister at his meeting with Mr Moscovisi on 5 December assured us that we are finishing the evaluation. In accordance with the Eurogroup decision, it was not decided to close the second evaluation, which was linked to the participation of the International Monetary Fund in the programme, which calls for new concrete measures. The transfer of the closure of the second evaluation raises a subject with participation in the quantitative relaxation programme. Do we have time, Minister? Just so you know, I wish we could make it. We wish to have time to know where we stand. We have the debt front. You have an open front with the debt. You have a bilingualism about the participation of the International Monetary Fund. But Mr. Skourletis says, but Mr. Papadimitriou says. Finally find them. We now go to government celebrations in relation to short-term debt measures. We don't ignore them, of course. They have a long-term impact that will start slightly in 2040 and will be completed in 2060. We have a direct low cost of debt service costs in exchange for the theoretically small reduction in debt and financial needs in 2060, and only if, of course, the budgetary targets have been continuously met by then, a primary surplus of 3.5%. However, we must not mock the Greeks. These measures do not bring about any reduction in the nominal value of debt in absolute numbers and as a percentage of GDP. Short-term debt measures do not have a short-term, direct benefit. In short, this is a small scale of debt intervention with heavy measures for every household and, worse still, the memoranda, the committee and international financial control are being extended. Has something changed since June? To refresh your memory, for the debt haircut on the Papademos government in 2012, we had a direct reduction of nominal value by 61% of GDP and at present it was reduced by approximately 50% in 2013. You've opened forwards with the institutions. We now operate here in Parliament with a regulation which has nothing to do with the regulation in force. We have an emergency, we have an emergency, we have - if possible! - legislative improvements of thirty-eight pages in ratification of a contract. You opened forehead with justice. You got the judges fighting with each other. You have, however, opened up mainly for the front on external issues. When the Cypriot government representative, Mr Christodoulides, is forced to say that I am talking to Tsipras and I am not speaking to the Greek Government - I mean, of course, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Kotzias - this is a very serious statement. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget that we are debating is trying to undermine the situation of the real Greek economy. As New Democracy President Mitsotakis rightly pointed out, a number of time bombs are erupting, and we will find them before us in 2017, such as the late debts that are growing, the growing red loans, the black hole in the insurance funds, the liquidity of government agencies that are getting worse. The Government is obviously indifferent to the citizens' tax capacity and the budget imposes new taxes of EUR 2.5 billion for 2017. For insurance, I will only say that two million six hundred thousand citizens see reductions, half of the pensioners have a reduction in supplementary pensions of about 40%, the beneficiaries of the CSR, three hundred thousand of our fellow citizens are losing the CSR that was abolished. All new pensioners after the adoption of the Katrugalos Act are subject to a mid-weight reduction of approximately 25% to 30%. Should I say now about the market? The climate is suffocating. One number will only tell you that in 2016 we had nine thousand eight hundred twelve business write-offs, the largest number of locks ever entered. What is needed now? A national definite plan is needed from the crisis, such as the truth agreement presented by the President of Nea Kyriakos Mitsotakis in Thessaloniki. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President. The core of the truth agreement is the forward implementation of structural changes and deprivation and the change in the fiscal policy mix, with less taxes and costs. I believe that soon the New Democracy under the leadership of our President of Kyriakos Mitsotakis will again be called upon to take over the historic role of the recovery of Greece and will succeed. Thank you very much for your understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u400	Thank you, Mr. Tragakis. Mrs Aylonitou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u401	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the 2017 budget, the second in the series drawn up by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. Today, then, is the day our last year's economic events are judged and the targets for next year are set. So how did we do it in time? First of all, the 2016 budget proved true and not fictitious, as state budgets have been for decades. It was then shown in the implementation of the budget of retained estimates. So we're overestimated. In short, it proved to be a serious budget. That should be self-evident, of course, but in Greece it is not, at least it has not been for decades. We are, however, serious, unlike Census which promises tax reductions, without explaining what costs will be cut. It will obviously cut expenditure on health, education, social security, social benefits, that is to say, society. Then last year's proclaimed public debt relief target was achieved to a significant extent this week with a package of measures, which, over time, reduces the country's public debt by EUR 15 billion. These days we have heard from the Opposition and the following amazing. What do the workers benefit from when they give us 45 billion? Evidently, New Democracy does not benefit from anything when the Greek people win 45 billion. But that is not a problem for the Greek people, it is a problem for the New Democracy. How can they explain, of course, that, contrary to their own PSI which destroyed the insurance funds and small and medium-sized enterprises, the reduction of our own government's public debt by EUR 45 billion was not accompanied by measures and did not cost the Greek taxpayer EUR 1? Ladies and gentlemen, since last year's objectives, the issue of surpluses for the years to come is still under negotiation, which is, in essence, about relaxing the political austerity throughout the European Union. To set surplus targets of 2.5% and 3.5% is completely absurd, it is useless, it is detrimental to the economy, regardless of whether it is seen as a left-hand cinnamon or as a right-wing neoliberal. The Keynshian would spend this money on the revitalization of the economy. The neoliberal would return them to the market by reducing taxes. Only anyone who wants to hold the Eurozone and the global economy hostage to serve certain monopolistic interests of Europe's strongest economy would require such surpluses. But last year we only used to call them surrogate and surreptitious. Today all Europe and America are saying it on the left and right. Today the structure of austerity collapses internationally and we are entitled. Given the experience of the 2016 budget and the developments I mentioned, the next year's budget is true and moderate. The objective of economic growth is 2.7% for the Greek economy in 2017. Beyond the budgetary requirements one is the objective, which determines the budget sizes, the need to support weaker incomes and basic social services. So, ladies and gentlemen, it is very easy to draw up balanced and surplus budgets, which also contain tax reductions if they wish, although only if they are not at all interested in their social consequences. We've seen it happen from previous governments. You couldn't afford the hospitals? You booked the hospitals. Did the doctors do too much? You were sending out the doctors. Didn't the teachers' wages get you? You let there be no teachers ’ gaps and let not all the lessons become. But we, ladies and gentlemen, do not do that. We hire doctors, nurses, teachers, because we prioritise people to remain alive, to keep basic social services running. So you want to accuse us of that? To us is a title of honor such a charge. We recognise the need to reduce taxes, particularly in small and medium-sized enterprises and professionals, and believe that economic growth, debt relief and the fight against tax evasion will enable us to reduce taxes from now on. By then, however, you will tell us that the numbers are prospering and people are being seen, that the word humanitarian crisis did not even exist in your vocabulary, unlike us who, in fact with unilateral energy, have legislated measures to deal with the humanitarian crisis, which your own policies have created today, within a tight economic framework, we manage and broaden the measures to tackle it with the social solidarity allowance to be financed directly from the budget with 759 million. Because, ladies and gentlemen, I continue to speak with people in my region of Athens, I would like to take you to a debate I had a month ago with a pensioner from the Free Professional Insurance Agency. I asked her how her pension had been affected by the measures we have adopted. He said to me, in fact, "the previous ones cut me 400 euros. Tsipras cut me 11 euros. What's wrong with everybody messing with Tsipras? The previous ones have forgotten?’ Because I, too, have not personally forgotten the previous ones and will not forget them, I am voting in favour of the 2017 budget submitted by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u402	The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport has the floor, Mr. Spirtzis, for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u403	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I see from the right wing a great disappointment about the success of the negotiation. It's a pity you're going to file the statements you made for elections and for all the rest of the rest of the last two years. It is common every year in the budget debate, to mention figures and amounts that are not visible to all citizens, for their lives, for their everyday lives and for their future. They mention amounts that were voted, but they did not actually apply. 2017 is a really critical year. It is the year of completion of the tortureous political recession, of unemployment and of the poverty of the Greek people, a year that we must continue to work very much, with the budget tool, so that we can implement all the actions and complete all the projects under way. Mostly, 2017 is a year that will start new projects, according to the national plan for the definitive exit from the crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, historically all over the world, economic crises have been overcome by the implementation of a large project of public and social infrastructure. It is obvious, however, that the crisis in our country was not only a consequence of the international context. It was a consequence of distortive and false development, which did not provide for the existence of a productive structure and base. Infrastructures that gave added value to specific sectors were implemented. However, they did not give any productive advantages. They were giving society a fake and on-call development. Projects were carried out. These projects were carried out maturely and not usefully. There was no national plan, coordination, hierarchy, structures. There was, however, the plan to accumulate 80% of the projects in a few technical companies. There was planning to reduce the national Public Investment Programme each year and to commit the co-financed majority to large projects. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not going through the years of the many billions of the European Commission's financial frameworks. Our direction is to implement a strategic infrastructure plan that will transform the country into an international combined transport centre. This large infrastructure programme will be implemented by involving the private sector and by means of tools provided to us by the European Union, such as the Juncker programme. It will be implemented with the cooperation of the European Investment Bank, the World Bank, the European Development Bank, on privileged terms. But the national RDP will not be left behind. It will not dismantle small and medium-sized projects that give life to the country at all its corners. Through this planning we will be able to hit unemployment immediately, address the problem of revenue for our insurance system. Through this design, resources of the new NSRF, EPA, will be saved to develop new production companies and produce new technologies products. This policy lies on the opposite side of the New Democracy policy, on the opposite side of the 'absolutely','solve the social state', 'cutting the country's healthy productive forces'. Ladies and gentlemen, 2017 is the first year that stops the game of wasteful damages of works, the fragmentation of the Greek people's money because there had been no expropriations, archaeological work, transport of networks. In 2017, it is the first year to enter the national infrastructure plan, with evaluation and criteria for the contribution of projects and productive reconstruction and improving the everyday life of citizens. In other words, the old-fashioned logic depends on what works will be done and where the constituency of the Minister and his friends. In 2017, this is the first year that will not start projects without studies, which will implement procedures for electronic licensing, for the electronic monitoring of projects, for the electronic draw in order to have direct awards rather than what has been done over all these years, so that every citizen of the euro is also given to public works and public procurement. In 2017, it will be the year that will finally be establishing an administrative strategic planning structure at the General Secretariat of Public Works. In 2017, it is the year when the National Public Investment Programme is growing. From 133m euros in 2016, 199m euros for small projects, for projects in the region, for projects in the poor neighbourhoods of Athens and Thessaloniki, for projects related to society, for basic projects and not for window projects. In 2017, the emphasis of the National Public Investment Program will be on the flooding projects and not on the squares, to stop living in the poor neighbourhoods of Athens, Kalamata, Thessaloniki and the urban centers. Colleagues, 2017 will be the year of the completion of major road projects. The Greek society and the Greek budget will be dismantled from the burden of building irresponsible and disresponsible commitments, suffering and danger to the Greeks, the heavy legacy of the contracts of high tolls and compensation. Today, if the policy of the New Democracy and the previous governments were to continue, we would not discuss this budget. We would discuss how we would be returning to the European Commission for 4 billion and several more in the clauses for the motorways and metro in Thessaloniki. We would discuss how many memorials and how many new sacrifices of the Greek people would we have only from the policy of the New Democracy and its historical responsibilities for the motorways and metro of Thessaloniki. In March, we close the cycle of operational tradition and adventure of road corridors and metro of Thessaloniki and open the cycle of railway projects, the completion of railway PATHE, the launch of railway Egnatia, a project not only of productive importance but also of geopolitical importance. Rail projects, ladies and gentlemen, have found them more abandoned than motorways, with no funding available, with the only prospect of being completed through a highly shrunk programme of public investment, from the national ILO and the threat once again of a return to Community funds due to their untimely completion. Today we are talking about the completion of the sections that fall short of the railway PATHE from 2018 to 2022, a project launched from 1997 and left to its fate. In April 2015, we found that projects of EUR 995 million, about one billion, had only EUR 121 million progress, which would ultimately burden taxpayers with hundreds of millions of euros, since these projects could not be part of a third programming period. Today these projects have geometric progress. The necessary steps have been taken. They are financed by the Connecting Europe Facility and by the budgets and the PPC that we will be voting on today and we have voted in previous years. In 2017, we continue to implement projects of 832m euros in railways, which are necessary, so that after more than twenty years the whole of the PATHE rail system will be delivered to the citizens by electric power. These projects are the completion of the new double-engineering high-speed rail line in the Tithorea-Lianocladi section - a six-kilometre structure, a budget of 430,000,000 euros, with an implementation rate today of over 55%. We have the construction of the project at the Rododafni-Psathopyrgos railway line in Athens - Patras, a budget of EUR 290,000, with implementation rate today of 60%. We also have the construction at the Psathopyrgos - Patras, on the same railway line in Athens - a budget of 112,000 euros, which is at the Court of Auditors and will be completed with the signing of the contract at the end of January. The inclusion of two additional projects EUR 104,000, which is at the Athens railway station up to the Three Bridges, a budget of EUR 92,000, and the construction of the variant of the Thessaloniki rail line - Idolated at the Polykastro - Idome, a budget of 12,000,000 euros. Obviously, there are many other railway projects, which I will not mention, so that I do not tire you. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] Madam President, I'm gonna need two more minutes. So we start by opening the new cycle of social infrastructure and the means of fixed tracking of Line 4 of Athens metro and its extensions, of Tram in Keratsini - Perama, of the metro of Thessaloniki. The metro of Thessaloniki is the work - anecdotes of the New Democracy. It was, it says, the safest subway. It has finally started with EUR 1 100,000, 000, but with a lower multiple through judicial decisions. In March 2017, civil engineering projects are completed and in 2019 the test operation begins. In 2020, at last, Thessaloniki will have both the main metro trunk and the extension to Kalamaria for the use of citizens. Of course, the works in the Haidari-Piraeus section, which was also received with a coma, are progressing. We are starting the new road networks on the northern road axis of Crete, on the E65, which is a bridge in the desert - only the middle part of the New Democracy and the Samara government was built - of course, in the Patras - Tower. The country will not live again, fortunately, for it - the phenomenon of not having large roads and railways such as Egnatia or of not connecting its ports, industrial areas, its urban centres, tourist areas or airports. This is the agreement of hope for the country and the Greek people. The New Democracy agreement, which they claim to be an agreement of the truth, is the agreement of the recession, of misery, of poverty, of redundancies, of the sustainable debts you have told us and of the non-viable citizens. To make something clear, ladies and gentlemen, I would say that we are not against the private sector. We're against the airline state-owned private sector. That's where we're fiercely opposed. We're across the street. To conclude, I would tell you that we are struggling to get the country out of the crisis and taking it out with the Greek people. Together with the healthy productive forces we will be able to raise the social state, build up fair growth and have social justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u404	Thank you. Now Mr. Lambroulis has the floor from the KIC for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u405	Thank you, Madam President. The 2017 state budget also confirms the continuation of the profoundly classic, anti-population policy of SYRIZA - ANEL. Thus, in the health and welfare issues or in the medicine, it is maintained, consolidated and worsened the current wild situation faced by the people, with the Government praising this policy as a stabilisation of the public health system after the savage towel of expenditure and benefits through their household and rationalisation. To this end, it uses maintaining certain funds of the state budget for health and welfare at unacceptable low levels, trying to convince that this marks a reversal of the poor situation, trying to hide its barbaric policy that remains intact and is growing, and reverses reality. Even the maintenance of funds at the same low levels comes to be added cumulatively to the wild 'towel' of previous years and has a multiplier effect on the worsening of already bad medical conditions, nursing and medical care of the people, which, in combination with the overall anti-grass measures - wage reductions, wild taxation - exacerbates the already dangerous health situation for the people. Indeed, with regard to the unacceptable and dangerous state of public health and welfare, which is in complete disparity with the modern needs of workers, it also calls for the people to be rewarded, with a view to being caging the logic of reduced demands, even to resigning from the poor benefits they had before the crisis. But what you do have a thesis, gentlemen of the government, is the deception of the people. You are presenting the EUR 300 million - the pillow, as you say - for actions on health, education and social protection for any, that is, emergency needs, trying to convince that after the regular needs of the people have been met, you have put something aside as an surplus. It is an excess, which is inconsistent with the increasing needs of the people, which, if given, in no case can cover the huge gaps in sub-financing, will not change the explosive health situation. Much more so that some funds continue to be reduced, such as, for example, state funding to the EEAS by 200 million or state funding by 7 million, which is an absolute deterioration in the supply of health services, medicine and primary health care. Thus, on the one hand, the policy of rapid state funding continues and, on the other, payments from the pockets of workers and pensioners and for 2017 to the EEAS are increased, in addition to the snatching by pensioners' pockets of EUR 717 million of the increase that was imposed, i.e. in contributions of 6% to main and supplementary pensions. Thus EEA revenue from insurance contributions is increased from 79.2% to 82.3%, while state funding decreases from 9.4% in 2016 to 6.2%. Any actions, as mentioned in the budget, to reduce the costs of the EEAS to medicines and other benefits, concern the reduction of state and insurance costs, while in the public layers it is translated into an increase in costs. A characteristic example is the pharmaceutical expenditure, which is reduced by 230 million in the 2017 budget, which results in patients all putting a deeper hand in the pocket for medicines, health material and so on. An example that comes to be added to the already tragic situation regarding the issue of medicines is 2009-2015, with the continuous drastic reductions in public pharmaceutical expenditure. What did they do? They launched the mid-term participation of those insured from 9% in 2009 to 30% in 2015. In other words, the state and the insurance funds paid 57.7% less, while the insured 43% more, which is increased, if we add the unprescribed medicines - which are constantly increasing - to the negative list medicines, which the EEAS does not compensate for and are fully paid by the patient. Indeed, in order to obscure its anti-grassroots policy, which is the implementation of the European Union's strategy to reduce non-wage costs, the government is using the same arguments and tools as the previous governments. Of course, the fact that these guidelines are shown in the state budget as government policy marks further deterioration of benefits to the people with new cuts for the next time. That is why the government suggests extending so-called 'therapeutic, diagnostic and pharmaceutical protocols', which are instruments for the enforcement and control of these cuts! Indeed, the mockery and stifling towards the people who are being squeezed is not perfect, since the government is announcing that it will increase the EEA budget, in agreement with the institutions, since no relief will be brought, because the increase comes from the pillaging, the increased payments of the workers themselves and even any increase in the benefits to the insured does not mean that the government's concern is the repayment of the EEA's debts but also because it is in the forming phase and the new ECOFO regulation, with new cuts that have been added to what has been done in previous years. At the same time, therefore, where health centers are narrowing at the expense of the enormous shortages of doctors, other staff, equipment, reagents and others, the government is reducing the funds for funding the units of the CEDEFOP, with the consequence that the conditions of primary care are worsening by signalling its pursuits through the so-called "embryotic" - we have heard such words! - reform for primary health care. In other words, they are units with the least cost, which will depend on the income from the insurance funds or the patient's direct payments. The prevention sector will thus continue to be an individual case with serious consequences for the people, since it will depend, above all, on the economic potential of everyone. The fact that the funds for hospitals remain fixed, when the situation in them is explosive, essentially marks the consolidation of the current unacceptable and dangerous status of huge shortages in personnel, equipment, medicines, consumables and the intensification of the work of health workers. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] Target? The speeding up of the implementation of measures initiated by previous governments, so that hospitals are fully adapted to the commercialisation of their services and to the rules of business action. In order to reduce their operating costs, reduce staff and extend mobility status to cover holes. ICU beds remain closed, surgery, shortages on medicines, health material, reagents and others. The result is that patients are forced to resort to the private sector - those who have the financial potential - to find health. You come and you're prophesying that you're recruiting permanent staff. Slowly feat! In 2015 alone two thousand seventy-five persons left and five hundred ninety-three permanent officials were recruited. This is the reality and their consequences are experienced by patients and workers in hospitals. Every little and little, you are recruiting subsidiary, nurse and other specialties, making black white, since this staff either replaces permanent staff retired or secondary workers made redundant. Most importantly, they are not costing the State, since they are paid by the hospitals, the insurance funds or by the patient's direct payments, i.e. by the employees themselves. They are, in fact, workers with reduced rights. In this respect, the Government implements the Euro-Union guidelines for cheap workers, cheap patients in a cheap health system for the state and business groups. That is why you have recently rejected the proposal for a law by the Communist Party for the permanentisation of workers, subsidiary workers, those with CEDEFOP services, etc., by highlighting budgetary commitments and agreements. This was a proposal from the Communist Party, which was intended to cover part of the enormously stable needs of the people's health. The government with measures for insecure deceives the people of the so-called class mark in favour of the people, as it claims. He took the measure, he says, but did not give a single euro from the state budget and instructed the underfinanced public hospitals, health centres, EOPYY, to get the chestnuts out of the fire, literally implementing the European Union's guidelines in order not to impose budgetary objectives and state budgets. Thus, the vast majority of uninsured poor people will pay, such as other insured persons, participation or even in full payments, in accordance with the EEA Regulation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u406	Mr. Lambroulis, you need to speed up a little, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u407	I shall conclude, Madam President. So they will pay, on the basis of the regulation, for medicines, for tests, health material, etc. public health units. Only a small part of the uninsured persons under impoverished conditions do not pay for drugs. They're on the positive list. Indeed, in the context of fairness, as you are exchanging state cuts, the deportees, while taking the drugs free of charge from public hospitals, now the government is making them easier, since they are supplied by private pharmacies by paying for participation. In the welfare sector, we are dealing with a deterioration in the unacceptable situation that already exists, since, in accordance with the policy of restructuring which is reflected in the state budget, the measures will be continued and extended so that state support can be limited to those who live on the limits of impoverishment. The rationalisation of pro-active benefits in kind and in money invoked by the government on the basis of uniform criteria aims to limit state insurance costs - benefits, by laying strict conditions for the part of the population that is situated within the limits of extreme poverty and impoverishment and by cutting down from the new knife of other pro-previous benefits. This policy is 'I take from the poor to give the poorest', the government presents itself as so-called philosophical. From one point of view to a limited number and categories of the population living in impoverishment conditions and, at the same time, the implementation of policies which impoverish all of the workers. Isn't it because of the huge lack of staff in pre-school institutions, special education centres, the lack of payment of workers, the lack of public infrastructure, which results in abandoned infants and children staying in hospitals, the huge lack of public rehabilitation centres?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u408	Mr. Bright, it can't be done!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u409	I shall conclude, Madam President, and thank you, once again, for your tolerance. Indeed, as a government, you have reached the point where you are giving AMKA to infants hosted in the “MYTER” Infant Center, in order to transfer the operating costs from the State to the EEAS, i.e. through the insurance contributions of the EEAS to the workers themselves. The government as well as the previous governments and all the other parties that agree on the capitalist development path that the government is shaping with its health and welfare policy, based on the cost of measures for the competitiveness and profitability of business groups, workers and people have nothing positive to expect. The criterion of growth in favour of the business groups that the current government serves, not only does it not provide for recovery of losses in services to prevent and restore the health of the people, but for the permanentisation of the current disastrous situation. That is why the need now is for workers to match their demands with modern needs, strengthen popular conflict and struggle, forming the social and political conditions for another path of development, production and the economy, with working people's power, and at the heart of satisfying the expanded people's needs to prevent, cure and restore health, by exploiting, for the benefit of the people, all the available scientific and technological potential. Only under these conditions can health be a guaranteed, guaranteed, universal and free popular right. Madam President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u410	Madam President, I am sorry, but it is over time!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u411	Do you apologize to me? It doesn't make any sense. Apart from this, I should like to thank the rapporteur for
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u412	Fourteen minutes he spoke!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u413	You realize I can't interrupt and close microphones. I can't handle it. In any case, we will have a problem now. Please don't let others go on and take courage...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u414	But fourteen minutes, Madam President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u415	Fourteen minutes. He talked about two colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u416	But don't we respect colleagues and talk any more?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u417	We all have this germ. Let's try and get over it a little bit. Well, Mr. Psarian has the word from the river. Here, Mr. Psariano, you have the floor for seven minutes, with the wish...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u418	Don't put any time on him while he wants to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u419	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u420	Thank you, former comrade!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u421	It is perhaps the tenth budget to which I come to speak and comment. I remember one of the previous ones - no matter who he was - I said we were used to having a monkey budget in front of us by all governments, no budget fell in. No budget was realistic, it was not real, it was unrealistic, it was not practicable, it was not efficient, it was not creative, it was nothing. It was words, words, words, 'We will do', 'we have budgeted so much'. All the numbers fell out. All numbers suffer even more than people, because we are used to saying this intelligence, prospering numbers and unhappy people. The figures do not go far enough, and even when the numbers are designed by various 'numbers'. Something was planned for the first implementation of the SYRIZA programme in the first seven months, something normal figures, that is, we don't have more numbers. They know it themselves, now the government itself, hangs on each other's handkerchiefs. At least at the beginning of this process was the hay and the fairy tale in a first shot, "we will do, we will tear, we will rip". The wages, the minimum, the fourth pension, the third pension, the eleventh pension, we put them all in the programme. We made a tough negotiation in the first seven months, and then we hung the negotiator, who walks around the universities and around humanity in general and says a number of smart ones, which he tried to apply here after instructions from this government, not on his own. Since this trick didn't work and we almost hit the cliff, we made this famous big turn, the big ass, and we did well and we did it, but we say we said a few things. They can't. We said we'd do this. The programme of Thessaloniki, etc., cannot be implemented. "Excuse comrades, friends and friends, voters. We need to implement a programme that is realistic in conditions of capitalism." The whole world has capitalism from Venezuela and China until I don't know which country. It can be one or two countries that don't have or have a kind of quadrant world capitalism strange. Capitalism is both in Scandinavian countries and in Central Europe. Capitalism has Argentina, Venezuela. Capitalism also has Zimbabwe, Burgina Faso and Tanzania. Why do we choose these methods - the "ethods" we used to call them all left-wing cigars? - Why do we choose this way? Why do we choose the path that does not come out and nothing that is in the public interest can be applied, not to some groupings 'we three of our friends who eat the grape', synagogues, trade unionists, tricks and various customers? Now we sign everything with tears in the eyes and with a so-called pistol on the top, to maintain one of our own self-built constructions, this new, fresh, client system. After we have crushed the old clientism, after we dissolved the corruption and the strife of all these disgusting and trizalis that led the country to the cliff, blah blah, etc. - Of course, it really was - instead of cleaning this system, we're setting up one of our own tricks now. We put our own buddies, our own girls, best man, friends, we establish new consultants' seats, from strategic design to the thoughts of the colleges, say, various special cases, say, and sign everything. After we've gone to Cuba and said "Adios Conandante!" and we have denounced the European potentialors, we are going back and we call Dynasty Angela and we are crying about organizingism and about what we are pulling and making us a number of bad neighbours. We don't call Maduro, let's say, and Corraus tell them our problems, help us. We have made a choice, that Europe is basically a wolf alliance, we do not want it, but we are forced and boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo. These aren't balls, comrades. It's either juuvetsi or a girl. He doesn't have everything. It's not all the little system coming out. We are also with Europe and against Europe. And Europe is a rabies lupus of interests, and there are some of our people who help us sometimes, no Olandreus, say, who we swear them, and then we hit the flats and say: 'Hello, Mr. Olandreou, will you help us delete the debt or part of it?' The debt is not derecognised. After sixty years a small percentage will be deleted upon promise, when all of us will see the radar backwards! Now that they give you the debt, you'll have a debt in two years. Why? Because you haven't developed any productive activity, you haven't implemented any economic systems that render, you're a state-owned, stuck in stateism, you hate entrepreneurship. How can one now build a new business? Thirty thousand businesses closed in time, didn't they? Only this year. Leave last year's and last year's and other old corruption and interlocutory. Only this year have a single 30 companies closed down. And to open up a business - if it succeeds, because we have not done anything with justice, nor are we speeding up procedures or anything - it is an employee in his business and who is made redundant. Because 80% of his business - if he manages to open it - belongs to others. It belongs to another 80%. This little system doesn't work out anywhere. Let... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Why are you whistling at me, Madam President? I still have fourteen minutes, I think.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u422	We're not whistling.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u423	All right, it was a joke, Madam President. We've also opened new wounds, except for the old ones we had. We are opening up new ones, which we cannot close, and we will deliver them open to anyone next, who next one must realistically look at things and see how it can reduce the extermination of all over-taxation, hit corruption, conflict. Where's that fuel smuggling good fuel that you were going to break it? Why did we do this sour? We have two years of governance of the first time left, which celebrates not in Italy, it is glad that the neonazi did not come out in Austria and goes with the neonazi walks to Kastelorizo and the island of Ro. These things are paranoid. Make it quite clear what you want, what you can do, how things can be done with consent to move forward, as the Irish, the Portuguese, the Cypriots - and we are still playing the best. You have never supported anything, ever, any reform, no plan, nothing, and now you are asking for very unspeakable and in a way of various kinds of consensus. You won't have them. You'll break your face and embarrass the moral advantage of the Left, whatever it was and wherever it was, if you don't change now and you won't change. I predict there's no ship anymore for you, there's no road, there's nothing wrong with it. Have a good night.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u424	The last speaker on the fourth cycle, Mr Gregorakos, has the floor and we are entering the fifth cycle - if possible - in other words the fiftyth. Mr. Gregoraco, I hope you, as Independent, speak for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u425	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Greece is once again a prototype. This is because while you were first proclaimed Left that we will quickly get out of the crisis and after you had done all this very nice firework in society, you took the votes of the Greek people, but you did not manage to incorporate anything in at least, because you took many problems. I am not saying that we have solved the major problems of Greek society. It was a big problem that we were dealing with and you took many problems from us. But you, unfortunately, Minister - and with your announcement yesterday I disagree, of course - you have done nothing but put the country on the autopilot. I at least had very different demands from you. I do not believe that you are a person who clings to the power of the move of fifty. So I believe that you have shown an unprecedented management of government incapacity, inadequacy and devastated the Greek economy. Anyone who has elementary contact with them sees it every day. Citizens have been immersed in insecurity, Minister. There's a great deal of uncertainty going on in society. I am a man who works in the private sector and every day I see what happens. The future of the Greek people and, in general, the Greek people are being erased zealous and arrogant. If we do not all change our way, it will continue to be gray and dark in the future. The fair growth Mr. Tsipras said in the previous period, there is no longer. We in Greece, our children, young people, must give them hope and say that there is a chance that it will uncover a better day. The reform promise, of course, by Mr Mitsotakis, can meet the needs and requirements of a new governance. However, she will remain without a reflection if she deposites this promise to the Conservative forces of the country. A real overthrow, Minister, must be made by the Greek people for the established structures and forces. They will have to find people other than the political scene today and the political staff that governs the country. Being people willing to change the country, have ideas, be innovative, be reformists, don't care about political costs. I'm filing that. The first flu death yesterday. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Leonidas Gregorakos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I saw the Minister. He was here a while ago, but he left. Has the Department of Health done it? He's tweeted. Nothing else. We're finding the nurses. We're finding the nursing staff. We're finding the doctors. We're finding the workers. That's what we're doing. Beds. We know we need flu epidemics in the beds of the ICUs. We knew last year. We had a hundred and ninety-seven dead, Minister, last year. I'm telling you, because you have the money. Give money to health. This year we must not deal with the same problem as last year. Two hundred dead in four hundred? We have a very good medical staff. Why? Because one in three patients, who's going into the intensive care unit, will die and we're in it when we have beds and intensive care units. Because we have a very good staff. But come on, we don't have beds. You didn't finance it. Come on, he wanted to change the CDC. He made it there. He brought up, but nominate your own. You did well. The rest, justice will see. This year, what did he do? What did they do to the Ministry of Health this year? All sick people entering the ICU, like the three who entered this year, were all three invasive. What did the Department of Health do about the vaccinations? How much money did he give? Nothing. The hundred and fifty beds are closed. ICU doctors are three hundred seven. Listen to the 2015 figures. We've got a hundred and thirty a manager, which means they don't watch. We have ninety-five curators I. We have sixty-six bishops and seventeen universities. You're a smart man. What does that mean? It means the system's getting old. When the directors, who don't indulge, are twice as many of the others, who's gonna be in state hospitals? Something has to be done and it has to be done and you will do it. There is no record of the real needs of ICUs in Greece. We have to do that, too. We need to see the university clinics working with the National Health System. We want university hospital clinics because they produce university work. You're a university student. Let's make them a center of excellence. We need to internationalize the medical staff. We've sent it out. Let's get it back. We need to do different things from previous years, that is to say, the quality of the provision of health and safety services for patients with clinical practice protocols. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. We need to evaluate the medical staff. Two years ago, when I was you, we managed to get two more years and took them to sixty - seven years doctors. But now they're leaving. The doctors must be quickly replaced. The system's sick, and it's old. We must finally see what we are doing with this vast number of medical companies. Because, you know, there's a waste of money there. Let's see what we're going to do about the investigation. Let's see it with public health, to prevent it. We've heard nothing from the leadership for two years now. I'm done. You have not succeeded, we have not been able to give one euro more than the previous two years for the National Health and Health System in Greece. We reduced by 200 million the EEA's money. But do you know that 28% of beds in Greece are private beds? In other words, 1/3 of beds in Greece are private and the private sector, Mr. Minister, offers the health of the people. It's 30%. We need to see what we're going to do sometime. We need to see what we are going to do with healthy businesses, we need to have tough measures, which will take steps to maximise the work of the private sector, but there will have to be a public-private partnership and we need to take the good of the private sector, the good of the state sector and build a new health system. I want to finish. It is not necessary to have a national health system which is expensive. In intensive care units, beds have another role. In the public sector they do about 2,500 euros a day. The contract made in previous years over Giannopoulos, which was a reformist move, rented private sector beds, which pays 850 euros a day. It's probably not of the same gravity, but it's cheaper. We need to see that, too. We have no right to remove the possibility of a person who is in the hallway of a hospital intubated and not to take a private sector bed, which is much cheaper than the public sector. Medical tourism must certainly be developed. What did we do? When you got the majority, you sent out the party appointed managers of the hospitals and put the presidents of the scientific committees. Who were they? The hospital workers. You left the hospitals six months to run them the people who were inside the hospital circuit. Time's wasted. Then what did you do? You got some people I don't know what they're qualified for and you put them there. Yeah, they have to change that. I'm not leaving for you. At some point you should finally, now that you can, publish all these positions with a big public international competition. Whatever happened, it's done. Let's get started, let's start with new executives who know their work and can deal with the problems of the National Health System. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm done. Our doctors have a good reputation abroad. So we can bring them back the people who left and many are gone. It is therefore time, ladies and gentlemen, to look at the future of the country and we should look into it as much as we can this time as we can, because the history of the future will judge us all and you and the next ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u426	Madam President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u427	For what personal, Mr. Polakis? About what Mr. Gregorakos said?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u428	I want the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u429	Yeah, but you have to tell who the staff are.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u430	Can I take the floor for two minutes to answer some things?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u431	I'm saying you're gonna have to explain what the staff were, what the excerpt was that you...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u432	I need an answer because this is where there's a dispersal of false news.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u433	When you take the floor, Minister, you will do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u434	Tomorrow afternoon I'll take the floor, but some things can't fly like that. Because I can go out and say you're an elephant and see tomorrow afternoon if you'll answer me. Now I have to answer!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u435	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u436	Alas, if every minister gets up and answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u437	All right, everybody, sit down. Minister, on this matter the staff must tell what the staff are, so that I can see and judge whether I will give you...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u438	There's no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u439	Let me judge it! Now, if he distorted some things, that's political. Here we have heard and what we have not heard! Now from Mr. Gregoraco, you...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u440	Can I answer that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u441	Yeah, that's what I'm saying. Tell me what the staff are made up of.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u442	To be insulted by his position with false evidence, which he quotes about things to which I have a responsibility. That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u443	It's political.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u444	It's personal, though. It's reproaching us and I'm going to testify a lead. May I?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u445	One element for a minute, because if it is all the ministers asking for the criticism that is being made against them, we will never end.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u446	We're gonna ask for the floor, too. Goddamn it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u447	Now what do you want, Mr. Loverdo? What are you guys getting into now? You want to threaten me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u448	I have a right to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u449	You're all talking. Do what you want. What do I care? Two hundred five to apologize for what you're doing. Let go of me, then! Mr. Polakis, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u450	Thank you very much, Madam President. What I mean is this. I listened to my colleague's heartfelt speech earlier. Tomorrow I am going to list - and I do not want to eat time - a number of very specific elements not what we are going to do, but what we have done this year and two months together with Mr Blonde at the Ministry of Health. It's like this mud and the pit you're firing over the black and the disaster, which we need to make clear at some point. I'll say one thing. Last year, intensified beds in the country’s public hospitals were four hundred thirty - eight. Today we are talking, one year and two months later - the figures from September last year - are five hundred and fifty-four. That's the reality. These beds are working. I'm also going to say one example, because people came out and accused of things. These were not only opened by half the appointments we made from the CEDEFOP notice, because of four hundred people in nurses and a hundred doctors, two hundred and fifteen nurses were appointed and sixty-two doctors were served. The others are reopened and would have been reopened before, if there were no problem with the administration of the CEDEFOP and the delay we had with the decision of the Council of State. I will also give an example, because in Athens you were also an intensive worker in units. At the "Save" Hospital thirteen beds were closed for twelve years, nine meths and four MATS. You know that, I guess. They opened these beds, they work, they have patients inside. How, Mr. Gregoraco? By moving nursing staff, which was in different tasks or in services that were unnecessarily needed and opened up these thirteen beds. In the same way, plus three recruitments from CEDEFOP, the ready-to-bed beds of the "GENERAL" neurosurgery have been opened for years - you know this one, I suppose - which already operate and has patients in three beds. I am only telling you two examples.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u451	No more lies. Nobody believes you. Three people opened three beds!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u452	Tomorrow I challenge you and anyone else who wants to come and question the evidence that I shall cite in detail.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u453	Tomorrow you'll say it all, Mr. Polakis. Finish now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u454	Tomorrow, five and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u455	Whatever time you want. Tell them at no conference. The Nobel Prize will give you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u456	Mr. Gregory, let him finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u457	You follow the example of 'temporary' trade unionists who have lost their right to shout. I will say to anyone who has 'the other' to question it tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u458	We'll be here to deal with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u459	Well, that's fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u460	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u461	Mr. Gregorako, you've exceeded your time. Don't worry about the meeting any more. Let's move on. Mr Panagiotis Mitatakis has the floor, because in his place Mr Tragakis had spoken. Please, Mr Mitarakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u462	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government, in order not to understand each Greek and every Greek woman the heavy axelk that comes into her income due to an increase in taxes, an increase in contributions and pension cuts, brings today an outdated budget, knowing that there is already an institutionalized cut, which will automatically work in the event of any failure. It is a budget based on over-optimistic and unavoidable macroeconomic forecasts, first the expected growth of 2.7% for 2017. It's not just us. It is challenged by the Bureau of the Parliament, by the Financial Council, and it is called the academics of the market. The OECD itself now anticipates a development of 1.3%. In other words, there is a risk of a hole of EUR 2 billion in GDP and, therefore, a half-billion in tax revenue, because the projected growth first relies on an increase in private consumption. But the restrictive environment in which we will be in 2017 does not justify it. As the environment does not justify the anticipated increase in investment by 9%. How will this be done, ladies and gentlemen? With companies now rendering 2/3 of their profits to the public, with companies leaving, with the non-existent development law, immunisations do not go any further, such as the failure to privatise the TECF, which has deprived the Greek State of an asset of EUR 400 million and an investment programme of EUR 2.5 billion? Will the investments of EUR 8 billion in Greek be delayed, initially because of your ideology not to bring the ratification agreement to Parliament for 12 months, and now due to the inability of the Greek office to proceed with the authorisation procedure? I have tabled a relevant question for that too. As I have pointed out in almost all my speeches in plenary, you are still relying, ladies and gentlemen, on investments in the period 2012-2014, a total of EUR 37.6 billion according to the CEPD and you do not bring any new investment, which will be possible in the coming years. Of course, what we've heard over the last few days is the debt fairs. Let me remind you, of course, that you promised the Greek people a haircut. What did you bring? Short-term measures! In practice, we all know, especially those who deal with finances, that the debt cut was only in 2012, initially of 110 billion euros, with the famous PSI, which now in the explanatory memorandum to the budget you are exploring and about 30 billion from the voluntary repo of 2012. Minister, we would like you to explain to the Greek people the short-term impact of increased interest rates, because we are going to 1.5%. And how are we going to fill this budget gap created in the short term? With new measures, to fund this success? In the next few years, of course, Mr Juliarakis, speaking to the European Parliament, said self-evidently that they expect to maintain surpluses at 3.5% for far more years. For how many, nobody knows. I read a moment ago that Mr Chakalotos, speaking on a SYRIZA council, questioned the government's acceptance of 3.5%. Of course, Minister, it is useful to say this abroad, not at the SYRIZA Politics Council, not within the public. The crucial thing is to convince the outside public that you negotiated what you presented as a great success.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u463	Ten has questioned it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u464	You have entangled us in the austerity and in an endless cycle of material surpluses and in the third, ever-lasting, memorial and lasting mantle to wait for any mistake. Of course, the agreement you have reached did not secure what we need, the integration into quantitative relaxation, the participation of the IMF in the programme, which I now realise that many of your ministers want and, of course, the exit to the markets, which last year happened at very favourable rates before your famous success. Under no circumstances is the debt reduction sufficient to put the country on a growth path. It is necessary but not sufficient treaty, as the President of the New Democracy said today, Mr Mitsotakis. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a special reference to the issue of the island VAT system, which is abolished at the end of the month. It is the only practical proof of the constitutional requirement of islandity, which the SYRIZA government, the Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras himself on page 3 of his letter of June 2015 to the institutions agreed to grant without any battle. It is a measure which the New Democracy had defended as a government not with words, but in practice. And despite what you have said in this Chamber, no renegotiation attempt was made. In no assessment your Government has put this measure on the table. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, an additional EUR 850 million will come out of the pockets of pensioners and workers in 2017 for insurance, more than two billion from the start of your administration. Ten times the amount eventually from the famous e-mail Hardouvelis. Cut pensions paid by employees' contributions and give as compensation crustaceans to privileged benefits. You have advertised much - Mr Katrugalos in this Chamber - the personal difference. And now we hear that the institutions are asking for its immediate abolition at the end of 2017. You proceeded with the reduction of new pensions, for those who are now in retirement, by about 30%, and you reduced two hundred and fifty thousand supplementary pensions by 50%. Obviously the lie that the Prime Minister said, that only 10% of the pensioners will be affected. The government over and above the crocodile tears for pensioners has forgotten society, workers who pay taxes and contributions, almost 60% of their income, the young people who in question when they get a pension, answer "never", the businesses that do not invest but suffocate and leave the country, the unemployed who lose their hope and leave for foreign ports. We want to speak in this Greece, in Greece that wakes up early. In closing, ladies and gentlemen, the country needs reforms. The country needs to find the budget space to allow tax reductions and contributions as they took place in 2014. You must change the mix of policies, emphasis must be placed on limiting expenditure so that people can now pay reasonable taxes. And above all we must believe in the potential of this place, to allow the Greeks to re-create. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u465	Thank you, Mr Metarakis. Mr. Igoumenides from SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u466	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating the budget today. This is a debate and decisions that at one or the other level relate to the more general developments both in our country and in Europe. And all those who do not believe that they live here, all those who have been raped two years now to close the left-hand parentheses in Greek history, come and shout that SYRIZA destroyed the economy. And what's left of the mess, it's inexorably taxing it. On these two issues, I'm going to stand on my position. With his experience ahead, Mr Tragakis spoke of a budget reflecting the full and definitive failure of SYRIZA - ANEL policy. Several speakers from the New Democracy spoke of a disaster in the economy. Mr Hatzidakis as the main rapporteur said forty billion less in banks the period of governance by SYRIZA who writes Tsipras - Kammenos in Uyjah. It seems he's studied it. So, it's consciously half the truth, that is, consciously lies. Firstly, what was the line of New Democracy officials on bank deposits? I am tabling the statement of today's Vice-President of the New Democracy, "I can't let my money get eaten by SYRIZA, get lost in the bank by SYRIZA". There are statements by other New Democracy officials who have reached today's President to say, 'Hey, children, let's not say it publicly.' [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Igoumenides, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Secondly, on the same subject, I note that between 2010 and 2014, before SYRIZA takes over, the reduction in deposits was 70 billion. Memory of goldfish! The rapporteur of the New Democracy does not remember. And not only memory, but also goldfish behavior! What do the fishes say? Nothing. They don't talk. It does not talk about these 70 billion, which in Uyia writes "Samaras - Venizelos". And the third and most serious regarding the selective memory and hence the conscious deception of our people is the following: from October 2015 to October 2016, a year of governance by SYRIZA, bank deposits increased by 6 billion, but stablely upwards in this year. We got lost, they'll tell us. Okay, we didn't study the evidence. SYRIZA destroyed the economy. Here, again, the rapporteur of the New Democracy said, this year less than EUR 20 to 25 billion in relation to the forecasts made at the beginning of 2015 for 2016. This means - he cut out a suit for the Greek households - 5,000 euros lost for every Greek household. I am presenting in the Practical Publication by Friends of New Democracy an instrument, which notes that in the third quarter of 2016 - not estimates, what will happen, what will happen - GDP has increased by 1.5% because of the good course of tourism and the strengthening of private consumption. I hope that the New Democracy colleagues will not question it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Igoumenides, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Furthermore, the debate on the budget, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be cut off from developments in the Eurogroup. I would point out from all these developments that constant and low interest rates, debt write-downs, according to government estimates, amount to 45 billion over a period of time and that new measures are not required. We are not celebrating these decisions. However, what is of particular value in this regard is the fact that the debt issue is finally entering the official table of the European Union and finally the struggle of our people for basic dignity of living is taking concrete samples. Of course, our goals are for a lot more and not for the few, but for many, for the wider social strata. That is another reason why we can only stand by and take note of the good news of the last decisions, but to that extent. Ladies and gentlemen, these decisions are the result of the constant and constant effort of our Government, but first and foremost they are the result of the sacrifices made by our people. These decisions at the same time are a slap in all these views that debt is sustainable, that debt does not need regulation, that is, opinions, that are, whose main expressions were Samaras and Venizelos. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Please be indulgent, Madam President. Apart from the question of the destruction of the Greek economy, a second question which concerns the budget is this: Are we going to get it from an increase in the revenues of the State, namely tax, or from a reduction in costs, that is, from redundancies and a reduction in wages and pensions? In relation to this question, I should like to say that, badly lying, both streets and the two sides of the question in my view are essential. We have chosen the way to increase revenues, i.e. tax, and indeed by spreading to as many groups as possible, so that we can reduce the burden per social group. We have rejected the path of reducing costs, namely the path of redundancies and lowering wages. Taxation, the New Democracy says, tax policy and you do not do so well. They said so with different expressions. He repeated it and returned to it by the spokesman for the PASOK - DIMAR. Mr Psarianos spoke of "hard" from the river, etc. Mr Hatzidakis, the main rapporteur of the New Democracy, said so. Regarding the fight against tax evasion 18 million,14 million and 2.5 million for the years 2014, 2015 and 2016 in the fuel smuggling. Once again, half the truth, that is, conscious lies. The first is that he is right to the information he presented on fuels, due to the reorganisation of the General Secretariat of Public Revenue. However, one of the official figures from the Ministry of Finance, which I shall present - and the Minister is here of course - seems to have collected some 750 million from tobacco. Since the 50 million of 2014, we went to 150 million in 2015 and 280 million in 2016, i.e. there was almost fivefold. And this without adding the data from the Lagard list and everything else. I'm putting it down for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u467	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u468	I shall conclude, Madam President. We rejected the path proposed by the New Democracy, not just because we are opposed to new redundancies and new wage cuts, but because if you wish, ladies and gentlemen, the view of 'less taxes and a lesser state', which is that of 'no state at all'. The fewer taxes come less in a social state. It means no or less public school, public education, no or less public health and public hospitals, no or less welfare state. All on the private initiative, all on the workers' pockets. This is our difference with the New Democracy. This is deliberately and successfully trying to hide perhaps to some extent behind the request for less taxation and behind the journeys - the rewards of its Chief of Staff to leave capital and business in neighbouring countries. However, the finger is swinging, those who had basically loaded the Greek people, beyond what we live, more than 20 billion that we got back with the negotiation, which even characterise it as virtual. In addition to the differences in the New Democracy - SYRIZA - one is the main one, which our people, gentlemen of the New Democracy, know, that the country has not broken over the last two years. The current situation that SYRIZA is called upon to manage is a result of decades of march, a process that burdens both New Democracy and PASOK. So the question, beyond the conscious distortion of SYRIZA's positions and the virtual opposition to a virtual government, as you would like it to be, beyond the conscious political choice of your political officials, who effectively undermine our every attempt to implement a left-handed policy, as Mr Stournaras, for example, thinks you should answer the following. What are you going to change in relation to Samara policy? Where do you disagree and what will you replace with Venizelos' political choices? What are you going to change from what Karamanlis did? In any case, we with the living social forces will proceed. In this suffocating core of budgetary stability we believe that we can and will implement a policy with a social footprint. With the fighting society we will finally pave the way for a new Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u469	It's understandable. You all want to say a lot of all seven minutes sometime, the way we go, there'll be five for the rest, while you've reached eleven and twelve minutes. Mr. Barbarousis has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u470	Listening to the last speaker, I wonder what you have changed since the time of Samaras and New Democracy. Approximately a month ago, the 2015 budget was ratified and SYRIZA ratified it. I mean, SYRIZA who blamed Samara's budget was the one who ratified him. And it seems that, based on the polls, after Scylla will follow Harybd, and the 2017 budget that New Democracy is accusing today, it will be the one that will ratify it in 2019. I mean, in short, we're mocking people. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from the 2000-2006 programming period. A 'tsunami tax' aimed, once again, at the weakest economic groups in the population. And not to hide behind our finger, these weakest groups are the majority today. We are talking about these groups of employees, pensioners and, more generally, about the whole working class and the folk. Let's not forget that for the working class and the law of the worker, you raced. But where do you remember it now? Power, the little girl, she's sweet and you forgot right away. You have forgotten all the promises you made in the election and brought another memorandum, which you are telling us is aimed at restoring the country's economy. That's what New Democracy said, isn't it? What kind of recovery are you talking about? Do you think by shrinking the purchasing power of workers and people's households you will bring the recovery? Your aim is again to reduce wages and pensions. Already the reductions have exceeded 40%. We are now talking about absolute impoverishment. You have led thousands of employees, pensioners, professionals and businesses to economic suffocation. And this is illustrated by the data on outstanding debts that have spread over EUR 92.5 billion. These dues you want to collect in order to have a surplus. Would you like to tell us how you will achieve this collection? Will you achieve it by increasing VAT, the price of oil, tobacco products, coffee taxation, telephony and a change in vehicle taxation? On the one hand, you are talking about reductions in wages and pensions, on the other, about increases in indirect and direct taxes. That's very interesting! You are demanding that the Greek citizen should pay the taxes that you will impose on them at a time when he is down and has no money to secure his basic needs. You will reduce the tax-free limit and change the income tax scales and natural persons and the special solidarity contribution. Thus, in the new clearing notes there will be unpleasant surprises as natural persons will be invited to pay additional taxes corresponding to the additional differences between the amounts of taxes resulting from the old and new scales for the first five months of 2016. Of course, within this tax storm, why should our primary sector, which you are so deceived and impoverished? And for farmers, then, there will be taxation from the first euro. In other words, we are talking about a starting factor of 22% and it will be up to 45%. We continue with a new reformed special solidarity levy for those with incomes exceeding EUR 12 000. We're talking about a 2.2% amount, and it's going to be up to 10%. The tax deduction will now only apply to professional farmers. In short, everyone will be regarded as heterogeneous and will lose the tax-free limit. At the same time, let us not forget that farmers will also be charged with tax advances, which increased from 75% to 100% of the main tax. It is worth noting that in the insurance field after the first phase of the upward adjustment of contributions to the OGA, which has already increased by EUR 95,3 million in 2016, the members of the Agency are invited to pay an additional EUR 92,7 million in 2017. If the farmer has no production due to insanity or disease or other natural causes, how will he cope with all that you impose on him? Let me tell you how he can handle it. He'll leave his land and land. Of course, that is actually your goal. Because all that is done in the primary production sector is not by chance. For years now, the dissolution of the country's primary production has been underpinned by the various treacherous governments in the past. The same and worse you do today. In closing, what I have to say is that no matter how much you fight and hate the Greeks and all the Greeks, unfortunately the Greeks are obscene. Greece is destined to live and will live. The boat called "Greece" will escape both Scylla and Harybdis and soon sail again in calm waters. This will happen when the "Golden Dawn" of Hellenism has dawned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u471	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Stavros Arachovitis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u472	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in my current position on the 2017 budget, I would like to focus on the texts under discussion concerning the agricultural sector and farmers in our country. The budget of the Ministry of Rural Development provides for 627m euros from the regular budget and 582m euros from the Public Investment Programme. A total of 1,209,000 euros. Starting with, see what they are showing - and answer to my previous colleague - the available data from EUROSTAT: Agricultural GDP increased by 4% in 2015, reversed the downward trend in the previous years. They still show an increase of 11.7% in agricultural income. The stabilization, but much more the increase in agricultural GDP, but also in agricultural income and exports, is a great challenge for us. However, it is not only the above figures, but the changes and the arrangements that we have introduced in recent years and which we expect to stabilise the situation for farmers in our country, which has been declining all over the last few years of the memoranda. I am speaking both of insurance and of the tax amendments that we have adopted this year. I would like to remind you, starting with Law 4172/2013, which provided for taxation from the first euro on all subsidies, allowances and declared income. In November 2014, seventeen MPs of today's Officerial Responsibility attempted to go through with a relevant parliamentary amendment to exclude Community aid from taxation and introduce it as tax-free. It was not accepted by the then Minister on the grounds of the failure to assess the impact. I am tabling the amendment on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Stavros Arachovitis, tables for the Minutes the above amendment, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We, in agreement with colleagues at that time, already in May 2015, that is a few months after we took over the government, have introduced a tax rate of up to EUR 12 000 on subsidies. Today, they are exempted from taxable income and are not understood as a profit for farmers, neither the subsidies of the II pillar, the allowances of the ELGA, nor the aids of Pillar I other than the basic one. Green aid and associated income are considered to be taxable for that amount of more than EUR 12 000. Moreover, today farmers have a real income tax on income from the activity of up to EUR 9,550 with three children, beyond that of the previous categories. So, please, ladies and gentlemen, consider Article 112 of Law No4387/2016, Article 44 of Law No.4389/2016, POL 1107/2016 and the Budget Tax Expenditure table on page 1. For those who find it difficult to find it, I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Stavros Arachovitis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would also like to remind you that the OGA had been exempted from the previous governments from the regulation of Law 3863/2010, which meant that farmers would not receive basic pension benefits, since it was gradually reduced by 2026, when they would be completely abolished. Today, farmers' insurance contributions will have a longer transitional period of harmonising them with those of the remaining insured by 2022, while at the same time ensuring the sustainability of the insurance system and the possibility of payment without any reduction in the main pensions for farmers. National pensions have also been guaranteed for farmers, which - national and rewarding, I stress - leads to a final pension of at least EUR 504. EUR 384 is not the minimum pension, but it is a national pension together with the compensation, at least EUR 504 with the current data.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u473	For the contributions, at least...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u474	I'll tell you, Mr. Comrade. I'll answer you. It should be noted that 94.67% declared agricultural incomes up to 9 000 euros. These are all small and medium-sized farmers and rural residents. The combination of tax and insurance leads to a reduction of EUR 250 for 2017, as well as a refund of the advance payment paid last year. A key element, in addition to the tax components of farmers, is fines and charges, ladies and gentlemen, which have now come to be paid for all the rest of the years and absorb about 40% of the PSC's ordinary budget. I'm talking about fines and charges. So you realise what great resources both farmers and Greek taxpayers lack from your own management policies. But let's go back to the 2016 valuation. First, you blame us for frustrating at the start of the new programming period. Yes, sir. I recall that the 2007-2013 PAA was adopted on 29-11-2007 and the first notice you managed to get out of January 2009, i.e. fourteen months' delay. On the contrary, the current PAA was approved on 14-12-2015 and the first invitation of young farmers was issued in ten months. Secondly, you are accusing us of sub-absorption and loss of resources from the previous Programming Period. Yes, sir. We are answering you that in 2015 the largest annual amount of EUR 780 million was reached, while in 2016 the annual amount of payments will amount to EUR 648 million. The absorption for PAA 2007-2013 reaches 90%, when by the end of 2014, i.e. at the end of the Programming Period that should be closed, absorption was 71%. Thirdly, we have unsuccessful payments to measures that have been in place for the past five years. Farmers and Laconia were finally paid for the measure of organic livestock 2012 and agriculture 2013. Fourthly, we passed the funds for early retirement and compensatory compensation in the PAA, which were borne by the State tactical budget, namely Greek taxpayers. Ladies and gentlemen, while continuing to serve our distinct roles, we will not cease working collectively and with a class mark to support the income of Greek farmers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u475	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Christos Bukouros from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u476	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2017 budget is over-optimistic in its assessments and tax-centered in its structure. These are its two main features. This is not a comment from the New Democracy, it is an estimate of a credible body such as Parliament's Budget Office and an international organisation such as the OECD, which assesses growth for 2017 to 1.3% and not to 2.7% as the government budgets. The government's talking about a return to growth, even out on the markets. On what conditions, really, since it is the SYRIZANEL Government itself that imposes on the Greek people 2.5 billion new taxes, 1.5 billion new indirect taxes - which are the most unfair - and 1 billion direct taxes? And all this while you have already voted for pension cuts of about EUR 1 billion, an increase in insurance contributions of EUR 1.4 billion, i.e. EUR 2.5 billion more financially bleeding the Greek people. It is obvious that the SYRIZANEL Government with the 2017 budget lives a new period of deception. We are listening to the Ministers from Stepma to announce the upcoming development. What ministers, however, and what government? By the government of SYRIZANEL, which made the Greek economy the only free world economy! We are already on the third year, 2015-2016, and we are going for 2017 with capital control and government ministers dream of growth! The rulers in their communication odor - which is the only element in which they are not lacking - are attempting to shape the situation of the real economy, while households and businesses have kneeled down. The Greeks live in an economic environment in which everyone owes and no one pays anyone, first I taught the SYRIZANEL Government. So let's see more evidence: Debts to third parties - due of course - from 3.8 billion in December 2014 were launched at 6.2 billion in October 2016. Red loans in the first quarter of 2016 are dramatically increasing and have already become red at 37% of the total loans. Deposits in the last two years from EUR 173 billion have fallen to EUR 133 billion, i.e. EUR 40 billion less. The outstanding outstanding debts of Greek citizens to the public since 75 billion in December 2014 has been incurred in August 2016 at EUR 91.5 billion. That is about every month of government SYRIZANEL and 1 billion debts, since the Greeks' tax capacity has been depleted. If we add the painful elements of households and small and medium-sized enterprises in the past, ladies and gentlemen, the so-called 'private debt' - for which the government is not saying a word, while the New Democracy has put forward a comprehensive proposal to deal with it - then, Minister, the picture in the real economy is not just gray, but it is black. Information on the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises was presented by the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Christos Dimas, this morning. These are elements which are not in dispute. It must be said that macroeconomic, of course, also, but above all, it is the situation in the real economy that should be of interest. You say we are going to get out of the crisis because unemployment is falling and you are budgeting it at 23.5% at the end of 2017. What are you talking about when, for the first time in this country, part-time contracts went out to 54%? Do we turn eight hours into four hours and say that unemployment is falling? How do we get out of the crisis? With the anemic development law you presented including 480 million and 120 million tax evasions? Is that how the economy gets ahead? At the time when you extinguish Greeks with new taxes on first-hand goods by increasing VAT, on subscription television, on mobile phones, on beer, on coffee, on cigarettes and on fuels with special taxes, the government is completely incapable of combating smuggling. They were SYRIZA's first-class executives who promised revenues of 3 to 5 billion euros from the smuggling of tobacco products and fuels. Do you know what fines have been imposed in 2015 and 2016? Just 15 million euros from 3 to 5 billion! That is what your credibility is! In the missing transport sector you have decided to increase the oil tax from EUR 340 per kilogram to EUR 410. You disappear a sector that can offer growth. Transport companies are migrating to Bulgaria and now Romania. And to stay a few more seconds in transport, in last year's budget, you had predicted 5.5m euros for urban transport in order to cover the cost of the travel card for disabled people. We are in the twelfth month of the year and the ministerial decision has not yet been adopted. You capture, even prevent people with disabilities due to your own insufficiency. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, modern Greek history has been very friendly and subjective to the Left. However, history will soon write - and I am sure of this - that a radical left government has once passed from this place, which signed the country's eternal international financial control and the eternal assignment of public property through the supergovernment, which was not dared by any former Prime Minister of Urban Party. The life expectancy of the previous surplus fund was thirty and a half years, as much as the debt period. Mr. Tsipras signed the concession for ninety-nine years and along with an endless 'cutter', which looks like, Mr. Rapporteur of the majority, the sick of the grace! That's what you signed!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u477	Mercy, with lies and misinformation!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u478	For ever and ever, control the country and the public property!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u479	Limit to your lies and misinformation, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u480	Because all you have signed and come is the fourth, toughest and lasting memorandum, if you want to continue without popular authority. If you lift this historical weight! If not, you are resorting to the popular verdict. Otherwise, I'm afraid you're gonna have some bad stuff with history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u481	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Annetta Kavadia has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u482	You've recorded the story for 50 years! Mercy, misinformation!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u483	Would you like to speak again, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u484	Mercy, with the disinformation and the lie! Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u485	Do you, Mr. Colleague, want to speak again?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u486	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds. He said, "funny with lies and misinformation," addressing me!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u487	Mr. Comrade, sit down, please! There's no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u488	Of course! I'm addressing you all, because you're saying the same thing with a tape. You've got the tape and you're saying the same thing!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u489	Mr. Comrade, can you stop? Mrs. Cavadia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u490	Mr President, please, I would like to speak on personal grounds. He was a fiancé!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u491	Please, Mr. Comrade. It was a moment of irritation and it's over!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u492	You were more excitement!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u493	To withdraw, Mr President! If it does, Mr President, I would be happy not to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u494	Rescind what? Rescind your speech to withdraw.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u495	I'll call it back for him. It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u496	Censorship is in the regimes that the majority rapporteur believes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u497	Mrs. Cavadia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u498	Your regime was censored. Your regime and your resignation sent the people to the landslide and had censorship!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u499	Now is this a picture, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u500	Mr President, I insist, I want the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u501	Be careful, partner, what you're talking about! It was your sideline that sent the people to dry and had censorship and not ours. Our party was a hunting party.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u502	Mr. Comrade, you've done it! Stop!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u503	It is a Stalinistic concept that my colleague!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u504	Mr. Comrade, sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u505	Stalinic me? Hungry perceptions are on your side!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u506	Mr President, may I have the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u507	Mrs Cavvadia, you have the floor, and I apologise for my colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u508	Sustained, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u509	Here, Mrs. Cabadia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u510	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the annual budget debate is a leading moment in parliamentaryism, an opportunity to explain and prepare. And as far as I'm concerned, I choose the field of foreign policy, as this is not the first time that we have been at the centre of cosmogenic, historical developments that change the form of our international environment. We have, ladies and gentlemen, a European Union delivered to the neoliberal proposals, unable to respond to the ideals of the visionaries of European integration and the demands of our time, a European Union that is out of contact with its peoples, who condemn by their vote - where they are given the opportunity - its political and natural face, a European Union which is now foreign, if not hideous. Let's remember what we told SYRIZA in January 2015. That the European Union needs a radical change of direction, a democratic re-establishment, otherwise we are entering dangerous atrocious and dilute phenomena. That the extra-institutional austerity of the European elites will be disastrous for European unity, that if you take away all democratic alternatives, you widen the door to the Tertian Age, that obsession with suffocating austerity, paranoid surpluses, unbearable debt and neoliberal dogmatism is the fundamental cause of the European, existential problem. Who can, ladies and gentlemen, object to this analysis? Only someone who chooses to ignore the parameters that led to Brexit. One who chooses to ignore that Austria has come a breath from electing a neo-nazi president. One who chooses to ignore the obscure but real prospect of electing Len in the French presidency. And someone who chooses to ignore the return of fascism and racism to Europe. Of course there are forces in Europe - there are also here - who choose to hide the head in the sand and to invoke the spectrum of populism, which is paralyzing the so-called impeccable social majorities away from European paradise. However, these powers only offer bad services to Europe. For our part, however, it is not enough to confirm that we have and are right in our analysis and our demands. As SYRIZA and as a left-wing government, we must remain consistent with the ideas on which the Greek people have trusted us. To tell all tons that we had to manage a programme that was blackmailed. In fact, we were forced to do so. Not to forget for one moment that the phrase “this is a coup” fully summarizes the events of July 2015 and to assure the people, who trusted us again in September 2015, that despite adversities and occasional setbacks, the battle continues and that we are moving with him rather than against him. Ladies and gentlemen, not only do we not have the ownership of the programme, but everything that we needed from the outset from our partners to remove austerity, reduce surpluses, leave a sufficient part of the debt and development policies is still at the negotiating table. At a time when history justifies SYRIZA, SYRIZA must again be on the right side of history. It is a fact that we are faced with global reclassifications that will affect the country's future. Trump's election, with unknown consequences for American foreign policy, annulls the prospect of TTIP, as the current model of neoliberal globalisation declines at the expense of its internal contradictions. The Middle East and the Mediterranean are affected by war and disintegration at times by powerful states such as Syria, under the responsibility of the West. The refugee tragedy continues as new caravans of desperate people flee from the hell of Aleppo and Mosul. And for the attitude of the European Union to refugees, the only word that fits is 'the relic'. We have before us, ladies and gentlemen, a Turkey in a phase of destabilisation after the failed coup on 15 July, which gave Erdogan the trigger to speed up the slippery downhill of authoritarianity. Human rights violations are culminating in the imprisonment of HDP leadership and MPs. Turkey's European perspective seems farther away than ever, while Europe shows a hypocritical attitude as all it is concerned is that Turkey should continue to prevent new refugee flows from coming in line with an agreement of dubious legality and efficiency, which enables Erdogan to blackmail. The Turkish President's rhetoric, without underestimating them, is important to read in the context of the problems that Turkey faces. Nationalism - and this is well known - has always been the adhesive of authoritarian regimes, especially when they are faced with cohesion problems. If some circles in the neighbouring country seek to export its internal deadlocks, we must wisely and calmly not play its game. It is clear that developments in Turkey also affect the Cyprus issue in its most critical quarter. We want the democratic and European solution of the Cyprus issue with respect for the UN's decisions and with the dominant role of the Cypriot people, Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots, away from reasonable custody and leadership. The Cypriots themselves must decide on their own future in the institutional framework of a bi-zonal bi-communal federation with full sovereignty. Ladies and gentlemen, we are living the total return of the story, the end of which some had declared. Greece is an island of stability, peace and democracy. That is what we must maintain and exploit with systematic work, multidimensional diplomacy, commitment to international law, peace and international solidarity. In a Europe that is in decline and in a global environment that is changing rapidly, Greece can exploit its comparative advantages and find its own strong position among the nations of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u511	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos from the Democratic Alliance has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u512	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I see that the Minister of Finance is here today and I am given the opportunity to ask him about a matter that has arisen since Sunday. A government-friendly paper in Sunday's edition told him of a secret account by Mrs. Gennamas on the Borgians list. Mr Venizelos has caused you - with the help of SYRIZA Members, of course - not respond to the request - to answer as the Minister of Finance, to clarify this case if it is inaccurate what has written the form or not, so that you do not allow the country's political life to be tarnished. Minister, some people did the same with the Lagard list, saying that Evangelos Venizelos was then hiding his wife's name. They were sniffy again. Will you or should you leave the so-called information a little while, so that the citizens do not know what is going on? Minister, please put an end to this. Do you have a story with the newspaper editor? Where did the leak come from? We expect you to come up with a statement to complete this cycle. We'll wait for her today and tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen, the government after the Eurogroup and the end date of 2060 - let us talk a little bit about its positive decisions - gives us an incentive to live until then. The second: it turns out that the government and the Minister are secretive. It's no different. They do everything to justify the PSI of Evangelos Venizelos and the 2009 PASOK Parliamentary Group. It is important and important that what was done yesterday, because there is a right of the 2009 PASOK Parliamentary Group and of all the things that happened afterwards. Without your participation, the possibility is that the citizens could not be persuaded about it. Let us see what the budget is giving, what it brings, how it will help the country. The Prime Minister - and the staff of the Ministry of Economy - spoke in his last speech about 7 billion euros to fall into the Greek economy by 2016 from various tools: development law, ESDP, financial instruments, PPC, etc. Let's get one of them. Development Law: Indicated in 2015. It started to be implemented. The notice came out in September on the first four proposals. By 2016, zero euro will fall into the Greek economy. They won't even have time to file the applications. Well, it's gonna be an evaluation six months later. Zero! Financial instruments: Financial instruments were ready in 2015. There was ex ante - because they like to talk about all these procedures - and they took it back after twelve months. He announced yesterday that the financial instruments would be launched within the next few days. They will get money in and there will be procedures for disbursing the money in 2017. How much is the money for 2016? Zero. NSRF: In the NSRF for the new programming period, the NSRF 2014-2020, we have a target of 7%. We were getting an extra deposit. It does not seem, on the basis of the evidence from the Integrated Information System of the Ministry of Development, that we can exceed EUR 1.5 billion. I tell you there is a risk - I deplore it - that you return part of the deposit or the entire deposit back. I give the details, so that you and everyone can see what needs to be done by the end of the year, so that there is no return to the advance. For example, I say to you that competitiveness and Entrepreneurship must be given by 31 December 407 million euros. I'm filing it. [[At this point the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And because, comrades, our rapporteurs have analysed the other issues, I do not forget that with Mr Haritsi's amendment we will pay what she has agreed with Mrs Cretshu - the EUR 1 billion - from the Public Investment Programme. It was put to the vote the day before yesterday and you voted for it. But now we're going to moral advantage. It is worth it, because I see many colleagues who have signed too many questions. I remember that the Prime Minister in the pre-dated debate on corruption mentioned thirteen pieces of legislation that had to be abolished, because they had to be involved in the conflict. Did you remove someone? A week ago you voted - and the Democratic Alliance raised the issue of fuel smuggling - non-compulsory GPS. It didn't pass a few days and you made a very big gift to smugglers. Read the article 'Unwillingly governments hit the fuel smuggling'. I'm filing it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] On the basis of this whole process, you are giving the opportunity until the ministerial decision has been taken by some not to have GPS and to have smuggling while it was compulsory with the 2012 decision. But there is another very big issue, and I tell you it's entitled - it's the Minister in charge here - 'Cassidy of the country'. In fact, Mr. Beyalas had asked the Minister for Finance this question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u513	For what?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u514	Mr. Sevastakis and Mr. Beyalas have asked Mr. Tsakalotos a question. I hope that because he has not answered you so far, he will answer you today. Topics to limit the dissemination of VLT (electronic fruits) - write - by «OPAP S.A.» and introduce numerical restrictions per city and quarter. What did you do, dear friends? What did the Minister answer you? Not only did he answer you, he also changed the President of the Commission, Mr Steerios, whom you refer to. Do you know what the Minister did? You'll see in a while. They have your signature. What you're saying to the Minister, Mr. Stergiou, Mr. Beyala, has been changed by the Minister and by a maximum cost per day of 80 euros, SYRIZA has done it unlimited. On whether there will be compulsory VAT, he said: No compulsory VAT. From time limits, up to ten hours of participation, as you were saying, Mr. Beyala, what a player wants, says the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u515	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u516	Maximum participation time: Thirty-two hours you said and you had invoked as much as the player wants, the Minister says. Opening hours: Sunday to Thursday. They've changed their hours. Minimum distance of shops: 200 meters. The Minister was dismantling. This is SYRIZA. He developed through the gasification of the country. And, unfortunately, you have the responsibility of asking questions, and then you forget them. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u517	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Dimitrios Sevastakis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u518	Thank you, Mr President. Interestingly, Mr. Constantinople identified the 2009 Parliamentary Group and Mr. Venizelos, tearing them out of the whole PASOK, the history of PASOK and the multi-annual deposit of PASOK in the governance of the country in the form of our parliamentary system and also the public political speech. Interestingly, he's progressing to a sort of selectiveism. Why is that? What forces him to break into his relationship with the entire PASOK and his historic route?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u519	Leave that, Mr. Sevastaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u520	That's how you did it. And it's very interesting that you did it. It's acceptable, of course. As a methodology it is acceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u521	What you signed. Tell us about the fumigation you're supporting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u522	Mr. Constantinople, you spoke ten minutes. If you want, I give you time to reposition, if you want to reposition or revise what you have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u523	You'll remember the question...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u524	The economy - and on this background is the budget debate - takes on as many political features as ever. It incorporates and somehow incorporates as its organic element not only productive relationships, not only numerical sizes, but political positions and national worldview along with international correlations. In recent years budgets have been disproved or re-embodied. It makes sense. We have an international system - rightly done the analysis in Mr Karathanasopoulos's first-hand speech - which incorporates instability as his organic element, incorporates the crisis. It is a system that changes the crisis to its productive element. Today the crisis, the accident, instability is an organic part of the economy. In this sense, the budget is an extremely difficult project. In this respect, therefore, the dynamic area of mutations is drafted, plus the fact that Greece is under the state of a permanent negotiation. We are mistaken to think that the negotiations are culminating in the first, second evaluation. The negotiations are lasting, because Greece has the great bet of productive reconstruction and, above all, of the change in the productive model and also of the productive human model. They change the demanding features of the productive citizen today. This transformation has not yet found its institutional integration, nor do I think it is a simple exercise, to enter into this easy parliamentary conflict. The need to devise the institutions, the need to devise new economic control tools, the need to devise new tools with which the economic demand will be established and the productive forces will be released, the need to reconstruct and the state and the administration, so all of this becomes organic elements and the economic demand and therefore its image in the budget. I will stick to some of the elements - I hope I will not pass the seven-minute period - which my colleagues have identified, as - let us say - Mrs Kefaliannis, who, at the end of her speech, thinks she should talk about culture, has found the cultural weakness that the country has, the inability of cultural production, the populism. Forty years ago a distinguished Greek composer, Thanos Microtsikos, had first developed the term for the "summers of the Theodorakis School". Nowadays, populism has become a candy, precisely because it is the main tool of the political fight and the political controversy. I think that the flattery of the political public has produced the crisis and trying to respond to this flattering and redemptive mood of the political system, I think it has great difficulties and great difficulties today. I would like to identify some interesting aspects of Stathaki's position with regard to fiscal stability and financial stability, which were requested last year, both in terms of structural changes and in terms of social policy under the restricted state. That was last year's request. However, I think this year, no matter how bad it is, we have to see that we have a different order of order. We have earned to a very large extent a kind of normality has been set in the megaliac the part of the economic orientation of the country. It hasn't arrived in the pocket. It hasn't reached the small scale. This translation of macro-economics into everyday life is the great bet, I think, of the next few years, Minister, that is to say, to become the institutional and economic good of everyday citizens and their everyday life. That is what I think in a very structured way they should go ahead with the narratives of the political system and the civilian staff in the next period. Now I'm closing up with education. I think that investing in education is not just a matter of quantification, although we have an increase and a strengthening funding of the structures of education, but of exploitation and exploitation in a flexible new system of educational relations between all human resources and intangible resources available from education, namely spiritual resources, is the strict annex, so that we can talk about a long-term educational strategy. The story, Mr. Bukoro, was not diligent with the Left. It was too strict, overwhelming with the Left. He delegated a grid of international and internal forces. Dedicate the left request. If you wish, the Left has won its democratic legitimacy since 1974 and then with very great sacrifices and too much pressure on its political body. I think this should be recognised without minors and micropsies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u525	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, we must reach agreement on the development and conclusion of the meeting. Although the limit we had set from the outset was the twelfth night of the day, we have to escape a little, otherwise we will not be able to cover the list. So we're going slower. We're gonna go, I guess, by 12:30. We're going with ten more colleagues. I'll let them know who we are. It's the mr. Charakopoulos, Tassos, Nzimanis, Saridis, Panagulis, Kamaeros, Kefaliannis, Simorelis, Iliopoulou and Jufis. So until my colleague, Mrs. Jufi, we're going today and we'll be at 12:30, I guess. My colleague, Mr Maximos Charakopoulos, has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u526	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to express my concern at the situation in our national affairs and the national deprivation in neighbouring Turkey and not just. This situation is even greater in the need for rapid reconstruction in the country, which presupposes economic reconstruction. The budget is therefore being discussed on the day after the Eurogroup decisions, which are, unfortunately, far from the great expectations which the government had set itself. On the contrary, we are entering a new dramatic phase without a breathtaking horizon, as the primary surpluses of 3.5% will last for another three to ten years. The International Monetary Fund has not yet said its own debate, what measures it will take to have the suit we will wear, while the evaluation is inclined. This cruel test could have been avoided if the current rulers had not decided in a roll the future of all Greeks. And here is the results today, here we have been bogged down from the point where we were at the end of 2014, because a large part of our fellow citizens have been lured from the thick words and easy promises. Today, therefore, the account is being overshadowed and the Greek people are being asked to pay for the broken "Baroufakis" because the fancy shirts and the thin air have brought along with the Capital Controls cut pensions, cut-offs, cut-offs, empty shops, inflatable VAT. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, there are tragic failures behind budgets and over-inflation for next year is being held in prison. Because the government does not want the destruction caused by its brutal persecution to be embodied. As it collapses, it is falsified by the last line of desperate defense and argues: “Why were the other best?” Yes, they were better, something that the citizens are aware of today, because they have a benchmark. So we remind you, for example, that in December 2012 the outstanding debts of the public and its institutions were EUR 9.6 billion, to go from the government in December 2014, which SYRIZA, on the pretext of the presidential election, dropped to EUR 3.7 billion. How many outstanding debts are today by the current government? It is EUR 6.2 billion, of which 3 are towards the insurance funds. However, the examples are not perfect and people experience them, and especially the weakest strata, because they do not hide the 8 billion to be paid by the end of the year, of which 3.2 are for the ENPIA, which was the flag of its abolition. As you do not hide your works and days in the primary field. The farmers, who have given you the first power, are now collecting the great thank you: the depletion of insurance contributions, the abolition of agricultural oil, subsidies tax, 24% VAT on agricultural products, excise duty on wine. You show that you do not want to understand that Greeks' tax ability has been exhausted, that obsession with taxation kills households and entrepreneurship, and at the same time do what goes through your hand, so that there is no investment in the country's advance. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no time for experimentation, for waste, for fraud. The country is at a borderline, society is tired, exhausted, problems are growing daily and solutions are not given. Yesterday, once again, we witnessed violent incidents by professional "blahalaki" who turned the center of Athens into a battlefield. Tens of thousands of our fellow citizens, resident in these areas, are becoming practically hostages of the riots without the state giving them the self-evident right to security. The abatto of "Exarchistan" is dispersed as a carcinoma everywhere on islands of lawlessness and offense, where all kinds of villains find a favourable environment to do their jobs. We have reached the point of law to be the law of "bulk," the law that burns the trolleys in Patisia, which destroys the ticket publishers, which threatens and prejudices the University. A culture of violence that the state seems incompetent, or - and this is more dangerous - is reluctant to suspend. And citizens are still weak and afraid of the outbreak of crime and feel that the good of public security is being threatened. This is an unacceptable situation, which is not justified by any economic crisis, nor can it find an excuse for the existence and continuation of any ideological flares. The state must finally react immediately and decisively to the peculiarities of lawlessness and violence. The Ministry of Citizen Protection is time to abandon the tactics of the neutral observer and assume their responsibilities, primarily towards the defenceless citizens. It is the state's obligation to restore citizens' confidence in the state, to feel that every human is not threatened by violent acts, psychological or physical coercive, nor is there any territory outside the state's competence. And that's something that depends on us and not on trophies or a blanket. I close, Mr President, by saying, ladies and gentlemen, that this government continues to plunge itself into deception and intolerability, and that does harm the country and the economy. Greece today needs another government, which seriously, in the light of the entrepreneurship-oriented economy, to attract investment to us from the swamp of the crisis by the SYRIZA - ANEL government. And that role can be taken over and the New Democracy will soon take over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u527	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Stavros Tassos from the KKE has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u528	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, last week in Lesvos, I was faced with three very serious issues, but in association with each other, issues which have dealt with and employed the inhabitants of the island, the inhabitants of other islands and hence the entire Greek people. The first issue is the abolition from 1-1-2017 of the reduced VAT by 30% in Lesvos, but also on the other islands of the North and East Aegean, under the third memorandum, which all together, SYRIZA, ANEL, New Democracy, PASOK, Potami and Union of Centres, voted. The second issue is the disastrous consequences of the floods, and the third issue is the immigration and refugee issue, especially after the accident and the death of two people in the hot spot in Moria. Someone could say, what they have in common have these three issues. And yet, you don't have to look too hard to find their common denominator: capitalist profit. And I'm explaining. What's VAT? VAT is an indirect and therefore a deep anti-grass tax, such as any indirect tax. And why both the SYRIZA - ANEL Government and all other urban parties show a special preference for indirect taxes? Because that is how they collect resources from the people's layers, to give them to their regular friends, shipowners - for them and whisky who drink in their yachts is duty-free along with other fifty-five tax exemptions - industrialists, bankers, who are not only in the unavoidable way but are supported by subsidies and tax exemptions. This is how workers are the victims of dual exploitation as workers and consumers. At the same time, indirect and direct taxation that hits self-employed people as a goal is to advance them and turn them into cheap workers' hands, thus contributing to the further concentration and concentration of capital, which is already concentrated in incomprehensible amounts of trillion dollars in the hands of a handful of people. These pond funds are not invested because their owners do not have the desired profitability. And to have it, they should step up the exploitation of workers by breaking even more wages, pensions and labour rights. But doing this reduces the purchasing power of the people and capitalists cannot sell the products they produce. The medicine for the profitability of capital is poison for workers, but ultimately also for capital, highlighting the unsurpassed contradictions of the capitalist system that in its rot is much more intense but also dangerous. In the massive concentration and demonstration of recent years, the inhabitants of the island have demanded that the reduced VAT should not be abolished - not only should it not be abolished, but it should be reduced to 50% and the first-needed species should be abolished - to abolish the tax exemptions for large capital, shipowners and bankers. It must also be understood that self-employed and small professionals have much more common interests with workers and people than with large capital. And this struggle should continue and expand beyond VAT on all issues affecting the people's family. The last floods in Lesvos, Zakynthos and other regions of Greece have once again highlighted the lack of anti-military protection measures. In Lesvos, in the area of Kalloni, in the bay of Kalloni, in the Mesotopus, in Tavarios, in Andissa, in Plomari, in Mandamand, and in almost all of the island, the disasters were large in construction, animal and plant capital, as well as in almost all the network of rural roads. The lack of anti-military protection measures is obvious, since such flooding phenomena occur every time there is a strong rainfall. For example, the Kalloni region has flooded three times over the last seven years. We ask for a record of damages and compensation for those affected as a whole and for their actual value for the damages found in housing, homes, small businesses, poultry, farms, flocks, farmland etc. We are also asking for the abolition of the ENPIA for the entire flooded island for this year and next year. Exemption from municipal fees and freezing of debts in taxi, insurance funds, banks, without interest increases for the affected. Immediately stop any confiscation procedures. Direct measures to repair damage to rural roads, immediate measures to protect against rain and flood protection for the whole island, as well as anti-nuclear and anti-Semitism armour with state funds by a single state building body. But why are anti-military, anti-nuclear and anti-Semitism projects not eligible by the European Union and Greece? Because they just don't bring the desired profits to the business groups. Why is the earth a merchandise? Why is it for every 11 acres that burn only one reafforestates? Because on the burnt land, the villas grow like mushrooms and designs are being made for the construction of luxurious hotel houses, golf courses, etc.Huh? Why was the law declassified as a total of 70 million acres of forest land, arming the arsonists' hand? Why are other laws declassifying pastures? This is how the profitability of big capital and five-star tourism is served. Why has the rapid visual control of 85% not taken place, i.e. about 90,000 public buildings in the country, which have been pending since the 1999 earthquake? Why was 30% of the buildings not immediately restored from 15% already checked and found that direct interventions were needed? Why are there not retardant dams and an adequate river pipe network? The answer is once again simple: because the profitability of large capital is not adequately served. Finally, what is the cause of the refugee? Imperialist wars taking place in the name of the profitability of energy groups to control their energy resources and transport routes. How is the 'populated' and 'democratic' Europe treating refugees and immigrants, which it created with the participation and association of our country, since we are a member of the European Union and NATO? At best, like cheap labour hands and at worst, as a burden, from which he wants to get rid. That's exactly what he's doing now. After taking everyone he needed as cheap workers, he wants to get rid of the others, because that requires the profitability of all kinds of business groups. So, these people are stacked in terrible conditions in various hotspots, like Moria's. Featuredly competent factor in the detention centre, he told us "If it were me, I would do the same and worse." [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be done in a minute. And less. We call for immediate measures to be taken on the human lives of refugees and migrants, their dual decapitation from the islands and Greece, contrary to the unacceptable agreement of the European Union - Turkey. To stop the operation and expand the hot spots of the islands in any form. To form open reception, recording and temporary hospitality structures, with the sole responsibility of the State, without any involvement of NGOs. To leave NATO from the Aegean Sea, which in the name of equal distances legalises Turkey's claims and is even more deeply involved in the imperialist planning of our country. To close the bases of NATO. To stop the participation of our country in the imperialist interventions and wars that create the armies of desperate refugees and immigrants. The people are doomed to live in poverty and impoverishment, to shed their blood, because this requires the interests of the urban classes? Oh, no. There is another way, the difficult but necessary and realistic path of breaking and overthrowing this rotten system, which gives rise to poverty, impoverishment, wars, death and refugee. The prerequisite is the eruption of profits as a criterion, the abolition of individual property on earth, the socialisation of concentrated means of production, with the people in power, and the release from the European Union and NATO. Only in this context will the Greek and every people be able to become a householder in his place and the master of the wealth he produces, live in peace and develop equal and mutually beneficial relations with all the peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u529	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Djimanis Georgios has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u530	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this budget under discussion is the second tabled by the SYRIZA Government, following the previous budget for the financial year 2016, which managed to break the six-year cycle of recession and lay the foundations for fiscal stability. It is a realistic and developmental budget, which continues to set a new recovery path for the country, the economy and society. The return to growth, along with the increase in employment and the positive impact of the transfer of the second half of 2016 to 2017, is expected to contribute to the relaunch of the Greek economy, allowing for a record of positive growth rates from 2017, with a forecast of 2,7%. The Eurogroup's decision to immediately implement the short-term measures to regulate the Greek debt is an important success and another decisive step towards the exit of the Greek economy from the crisis. In particular, a debt reduction of 22% of GDP is guaranteed, i.e. at least EUR 45 billion, while interest rates are stabilising at a favourable rate of 1.5%, especially in a period of uncertainty, but also forecasts for an increase in interest rates in the coming period. The main aim of our economic policy for 2017 is to maintain and strengthen fiscal equilibrium, with at the same time fair burden-sharing of budgetary adjustment and the benefit of economic recovery provided for. This is achieved through the development of new social policy tools, such as institutional safeguarding and extending social solidarity income, strengthening employment, upgrading health and care services and strengthening educational policy. On defence issues, I would like to mention that in 2016 the Ministry of Defence proceeded to two very important legislative initiatives. The first concerned Law No.4361, which revised and improved the system of mobilisation of arms transfers, as well as matters relating to the care of armed forces personnel. The second legislative initiative, to which I had the honour of being rapporteur, concerned the regulation of matters of competence of the Ministry of Defence, L.4407 and I would like to mention three points - the areas of this law. The first concerns the setting-up and operation of a new agency in the OAU, MOMCA, which aims to cooperate with bodies in the wider public sector in the preparation of studies and the construction of projects for the use of resources and personnel of the Armed Forces, in particular in border and remote areas, where it is difficult to fulfil the basic needs of the local society, through private initiative. Mozambique can also be included in the civil protection plans. The second concerns the establishment and operation of a new agency, also at the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which will assume the role of financial and legal support with sole responsibility for the optimal use of the property of the three Armed Forces, which is not used for military purposes. Finally, it should be noted that this draft law introduced for the first time the trade union in the field of the Armed Forces. For 2017 and taking into account the existing strict financial framework, the Ministry of National Defence shall review its actions in order to achieve the maximum effectiveness of its operational, defence and social work. As part of the efforts to save resources and rationalise the expenditure of the Ministry of Defence for 2017, the General Staff actions and interventions concerning important structural reforms and development initiatives have already been updated and launched, which are summarised as follows: Restructuring of the Operational Units of the Armed Forces by reducing size and increasing the power of fire. Development of real estate through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Outsourcing the economic activities of military personnel service operations. Efforts to divest surplus or non-operationally necessary war material and equipment. Implementation of PPPs and reduction of recruitment of seasonal staff. The regular budget provides for €475 million for the armaments programmes. Appropriations for retroactive remuneration of officials from 1 August 2012 to 30 July 2014 have also been provided for the treatment of military personnel, the training and training of personnel, the participation of the Armed Forces in peacekeeping missions, the supply of fuel and sanitary supplies for military hospitals, the national obligations arising from Greece's participation in NATO, the contributions of the National Meteorological Service to international organisations and the obligations arising from the implementation of armaments programmes. The Hellenic Defence Systems are also covered by the Ministry of Defence. As regards the Public Investment Programme, the amount of expenditure for 2017 is projected to reach EUR 675 billion, the same amount as for 2016. This expenditure represents 3.7% of the country's forecast GDP, is allocated to EUR 575 billion for projects to be co-financed by EU funds and EUR 1 billion for projects to be financed exclusively from national resources. The Public Investment Programme, as a key instrument for development policy, accompanies the budgetary effort with development actions, contributing to the strengthening of the Greek economy and at the same time supporting social cohesion, in order to achieve the maximum possible development effect. Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to vote in favour of the 2017 budget, a budget that gives the message of a new recovery course for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u531	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. I do not see Mr Saridis in the Chamber. Mr Efstathos Panagulis, an independent MEP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u532	Ladies and gentlemen, before I turn to the main issue of the budget, I shall refer to something concerning our national sovereignty and the dignity of the Greek people. I read from the newspaper "DIMOCRATIA" today - and unfortunately, until now, they have not been disproved - the following: "Sufficient enlightening about the way the White House sees Greece of the memoranda was the US Ambassador to Athens Jeff Pyatt at the meeting with Greek diplomatic authors. First of all, Mr Piatt confirmed, indirectly but clearly, that there was an American recommendation in Alexis Tsipras to replace Ministers in the recent reshaping, which were not presented as a fervent supporter of investment." I will not make any comment, ladies and gentlemen. "If they stand, they will reach the pensions at EUR 360, they will take advantage of subsidiary and single-handed, free team redundancies." In these statements, Mr. Tsipras denounced the previous New Democracy government on 23 May 2014 that he would throw pensions at EUR 360, that he would eliminate subsidiary and one-off and release collective redundancies. Finally, the government that insists on calling itself the "left" came to implement even worse measures. Throughout the country's left-wing governance, the situation in key areas such as health, justice and security bodies is literally tragic. Because of the unprecedented austerity in the area of public health and recruitment, the collapse of the ESS is before the gates. Lacks in traumatists, medical and nursing staff, with inoperative medical machines, hypotheses and amalgamation of clinics. In general, the shortcomings in a good which concerns all of us and which concerns public health are enormous. For days of governance, SYRIZA has stepped up the impoverishment that prevails in the area of justice, with characteristics of its third-world conditions of awarding, suppression, lack of elementary electronic media infrastructure and secretarial support and depreciation of the institution. So far, governance has severely affected the crucial legitimate good of the security of citizens, with exhaustive cuts and reductions in the wages of workers in the security bodies and with the Minister of Civil Protection being converted into a Minister of Protection of the Attica. The government, because of its inability to deal with a difficult issue, such as refugee, has turned our islands into a store of souls, while also affecting the fundamental for the economy of the country in the tourism sector. 'The only realistic and salutary proposal is the abolition by a law and an article of all austerity measures'. These were the statements by the President of SYRIZA, on the eve of the elections, which said that if SYRIZA came first, then since the same election night the memorandum would not exist. Not only did it abolish, but with a new hundred years rather than a Memorandum of Understanding, it committed for nine nine years every public mobile and immovable property and agreed to divest it to serve the public debt. To get the program out, it applies in all areas an unprecedented austerity of duration, which in turn has created armies of debtors. More than four million Greeks owe taxes, banks, insurance funds and other organisations and have been in absolute deadlock armies of small and medium-sized shops that are devastated and closed. Small business and shops armies are candidates for future deaths, households without power, unemployment, malnutrition and suicide on a first shot. The "left" - within introductory terms the word - a budget of 2017, not only differs from the previous budgets, but with new tax burdens to the detriment of the exterminated Greek citizen, increases the deep crisis experienced by our country, recession, poverty and misery. The historian in a few years will write about the greatest fraud committed against the Greek people, who put his hopes on the government of SYRIZA and, after the memorandum, the commitment of public property, the cuts in pensions and ancillarys, the release of collective redundancies and a number of other extermination measures. It now brings the "left" budget 2017, without a social sign, which will serve once again the Memorandums, the Programme and the lenders, with exterminating new taxes, pension reductions, with infinite increases in health and education expenditure and zero increases in expenditure on social policy, pensioners and disabled people. We even arrived at cuts to the HEIs, which were marching days ago and did not meet with the Prime Minister, because he had a meeting with his adviser, Mr. Karanika. The indirect taxes for the first time, Minister of Finance, in a budget amounted to 57%, 56.4%, in fact, and this is how you now share poverty throughout the country. You've led the country to genocide. What happened, Minister of Finance, the Lagard press lists and the officers? Really, what did you collect from the various lists when Germany and France collected several billion dollars? Absolutely nothing! The culmination of your social policy was two months ago, when you were racing with the retired, so that they would not reach Herod Attica, where is the Maximos Mansion and annoy the Prime Minister. As far as the surpluses you are claiming are concerned, these will be surpluses bloody with the blood and sweat of workers, those social and popular classes that supported and believed the SYRIZA Government. What really happened, Minister, with the capital controls? Do you want me to remind you that from your financial staff at the beginning of the year they came out and said that they would be abolished in the first quarter? Then came the other Minister, the dear Mr Stathakis, and said it would be the first semester. You don't realize we've arrived in the twelfth month? For all this, however, the anti-grassroots measures, ladies and gentlemen, which you take every day and which have led the country to despair, the weakest social classes and accusations, will take the proof when the elections are held. This will be the proof that the Greek people will give of the policy pursued by a government that had given up all our hopes. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u533	Thank you, Mr. Panagoulis. My colleague, Ilias Cameroon, from SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u534	Ladies and gentlemen, since the debate on the budget started, we have heard too many speakers. We're about a third of the speakers. It is obvious that the attempt by Opposition and the spokesmen of the New Democracy to convince us that in these two years the SYRIZA and ANEL government has made things worse and that we are much better in 2014. In fact, Mr. Hatzidakis said that we were trying to get back where they were in 2014. Of course, we have had a lot of discussions on this subject, but they are insisting. We know why they insist. They are served by the media. They try to spread terror and despair in the world and through the media. I will not repeat arguments such as the surpluses which they had and which we know where they would lead. I would like to make a simple comparison to reveal the poaching they are trying because they compare the situation in which we were in 2014 with the one we are now. They had to compare normally to be now, if their policy continued in 2014. There's evidence. They're not cases like their own sucess story cases, that is, that we'd be successful, that we'd get out on the market, that we'd have growth, etc. A very characteristic example has already been mentioned by a colleague in relation to education, which I would like to remind you of. The medium-term programme adopted by the PASOK and New Democracy in 2014 with L.4263, compared with the reductions that it would have and anticipated for 2017 for education with the current budget we are discussing, then today we have an increase in our own budget of 15.6% for education. This is an example. Of course, we don't even get what they say we're not better than 2014. Of course we're better than just numbers. I do not want to repeat a follow-up debate on the millions provided for in this budget for loans, social welfare, health or education, which many speakers have mentioned. Because the numbers are getting tired and people don't understand them, I will mention two - three examples. Is the care better or not? Don't tell me about the hospitals. We in the world and in the province know that no one is uninsured right now. We know they were going to make an appointment of three, four, five and six months for an examination at the hospital and now they're going the next day. I'm not talking about elsewhere, I'm talking about my territory. We know how much food, housing, etc. have been covered. We know how many people have taken one single and how many have taken one single in 2014. Do you know how many people got single in 2014? Zero. We must, however, see behind the numbers. I am not satisfied when we compare numbers, namely that we are doing better. We must compare the qualitative difference that we must have. With the debate that is taking place in here, no one will convince anyone. Do you expect that we of SYRIZA will convince you of the New Democracy or us? Even colleagues from the Communist Party of Greece come and download the proposals for an ideal and ideal world here. I want to take advantage of my presence at the Step and make a few suggestions to contribute to the following. That's how I think we should do. That's our role. We're not going to convince any of the opponents. We must therefore contribute to the formulation of social and developmental characteristics of the budget, on two issues. The first concerns tourism. I mention it because I didn't hear much about tourism. Look, we're better off again in the numbers for tourism. And arrivals and nights are more. Of course, we had a reduction over last year, which is explained by many factors. It's the experts. But I want to stay in the other model of tourist development, which we want to have. It's a few things that don't look behind numbers or through numbers, in change. I will say very briefly: enlargement of the season, development of arrivals and advertising. Efforts in this direction are made by everyone. We have to catch the issue at its root. We need to see what benefit this tourist development benefits, who benefit these numbers here. We know that so far few benefit, as long as there is a concentration of profits, but as much as they remain abroad. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We want alternative forms to fight against - so that I do not use the heavy word 'knock' - because it is difficult today, the traffickers, the tour operators. We know that the market is controlled by two main agencies. We need to see how we compare to all inclusive. We need to look at the question of workers who are over-exploited. We need to see internal and social tourism, spatial planning. That is why we in the development law have given priority to linking the agri-food issue. I would like to end with the issue of islands, because we have heard a lot about VAT today, which we are abolishing and all of this. Look, insularity has said many times that it is an issue that is created on the islands, first of all, by their natural exclusion. But so far, what is not happening on the islands of Europe, namely that islanders have been excluded from basic goods, which should have access, such as transport, such as services, health, education, etc. On this issue, are we waiting for neoliberal policy, which is being pursued so far, to give a solution to the insularity gaps? We know that in order to do this, it takes a cost, because teachers need more children, because they need doctors in fewer residents than they are in the center. He needs such a cost. Who's gonna pay for this? Do we expect those who keep on paying it, and whose only purpose is to speculate on the islands, to continue to create grandchildren to deplete the richness of the islands and then leave? We don't expect them. That is why only the Left can deal with the issue of islandity, only the Left can make this necessary redistribution. This is to be done, it takes time. In order to make the areas we want in services, in the ferry, in order to bring prices down, as they have been so far, monopolistic, to take measures to relieve islands of the issues of education and health, it takes time. That is why the minimum measures for islands which exist so far must not be abolished. The reduced rate of VAT was and is the only measure to deal with the problems of islanders.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u535	Come on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u536	I shall say one more word, Mr President, and I shall end. I think we should seek to keep it in every way, not only on the islands, which are left to do, but also to restore it. It is also provided for in the agreement when the budget goes well. Also, Ministers, there are even studies that say that the amount collected from the VAT increase is much less than if we hit tax evasion if we increase VAT revenue. For example, in the many islands where taxes have been abolished, it is not enough that citizens are not served, but there are no controls and cannot be collected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u537	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u538	Thank you, Mr President. I shall start with an answer to the previous speaker, because I heard him talk about islandism and tourism. I would remind him that since 1 January 2017, VAT will be increased in its own region. The reduced VAT, abolished by the government of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u539	Don't be in a hurry. We'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u540	He's voted, Mr. Comrade!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u541	And you voted for him!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u542	Let me remind you that for tourism - he also spoke about - six tax rates have been increased. VAT at night from 6.5% went to 13%. From 13% to 24% for the focus and from 26% to 29% the tax on business. Of course, there is also the tax that will enter for the night, which your government has also voted for, the dividend tax and not to talk about all the charges that are for HISH and others. I therefore think that the model of tourist development, which has been developed by my dear colleague, leads with mathematical accuracy to the closure of many tourist businesses. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately no way has yet been found to change numbers, according to party identity or wishful wishes. Hard reality is not arithmetic, as much inaccuracy as any misinformation is said. Reality can only be captured. And what is reflected in your 2017 budget, once again, is how inexpensive and undeadly the left rhetoric has been in our country in recent years. I have to admit, of course, that your attachment to your chairs has landed you for good in the government, at least in recent years and I think you're going to give too much fight to get you out of there. In the last two years, while fighting rabies every reformist effort of the previous government, claiming that all the country's suffering has been due to the infamous memorials, we have spent last year at another time when the Prime Minister of the country speaking to his parliamentary group has baptized the third memorandum as a huge success. And a few days ago, Mr Tsipras, speaking to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, said attributes that derailment of the programme, namely the third memorandum, which he voted for, would be the perfect disaster for the economy. This, of course, is half the truth. The other half of the truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that there are too many ways to destroy the Greek economy. One of them, for example, is to divest every production potential, constantly adding new taxes, which you are doing with this budget, with which only 2.6 billion new taxes are added for 2017. And this while you have already taken measures 3 billion more in 2015-2016, while celebrating that you have achieved lower surpluses. In other words, instead of abolishing HPAI, which you were saying in an election, you actually added about two and a half new HPAI to the existing one. However, there are other ways to destroy the economy, such as by undermining every day the realization of investments, such as the ones in Greek and Skouria, or leading to a shipwreck of demobilizations, such as that of the ISAFA, as if we were more than 400 million directly or 2,5 billion in the next ten years. Also, it is done by fooding your party army indistinguishably, doubling the General Secretariats of the Ministries, hiring vastly posthumous officials and maintaining irresponsible agencies or hiring out the window of two hundred twenty employees for the Building Infrastructures, for which the country's Supreme Administrative Court has finally judged themselves, ladies and gentlemen, that they do not meet the established and lasting needs of the public. Also, it can be done by driving urban transport to damage 61 million in 2015 from the profits they had in 2014 or by taking PPC profitable with 90 million and reaching it with damage to about 100 million. So there are too many ways to destroy the Greek economy. And by coincidence, your own government of SYRIZA - Independent Greeks has done so in all ways over the last two years. Of course, unpleasant surprises about the Greek people do not stop here alone. You made him adjust to the debt and brought him fourth memorandum and primary surpluses of 3.5 per year. In other words, you have shown him new measures. For God’s sake, then, the government has unfortunately accepted the inconceivable. So let's see what an agreement is about a primary surplus of 3.5% beyond 2018. Actually, it means something that doesn't exist in the real world. Since 1974, only three states have managed to have a primary surplus of 3% for about a decade. Belgium in the 1990s, Norway with huge oil reserves and Singapore. Even Germany did it only for the last quarter of 2007 and for the first quarter of 2008. So how will our country, ladies and gentlemen, succeed? Unfortunately, this can only be done by means of new measures or by postponing payments from the State. And if the SYRIZA executives and all of you colleagues from SYRIZA were in Anti-Policy and you heard that our country is going for long primary surpluses, then you would be looking for bars to climb and protest and possibly tiles to withstand you! Now let's go to the debt relief measures. Of course, if we want to be honest, we are not talking about debt write-down. Not a single euro nominal debt is being cut, not least the EUR 45 billion that the government propaganda advertises. On the contrary, in the short term, we will make more money for the debt service. Of course, we in the New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, are pleased that you have now accepted the idea that in order to be a viable debt, it must be useful. In 2014, I would remind you that you denounced the New Democracy for what it had achieved and requested a nominal debt haircut. You only disagreed if it was 60 billion, someone else said 120 billion, but you were talking about a haircut. And right now, every conversation has ceased. We are also happy, by extension, that the relief is made in terms of present value, a assumption that you have been mocking up to a year ago. Of course, my lack of knowledge to have you first! However, you must also remind Greek citizens that, since we are talking about terms of present value with the three-square PSI, you must, in fact, admit that the country's entire GDP was bored at that time. The reduction is of between 30 and 40 billion, as the government says. Of course, I would remind you that the competition only in the first half of 2015 was appreciated by all European creditors, with whom you are currently discussing, around 35 to 55 billion. However, this has also gradually become an accounting system. And unfortunately, even with this relief or normalisation in terms of debt repayment, or this cost, you have not been able to cover. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. In addition, the country's obligation, even after the 2019 relief, is 14 billion for interest and reaches 19,5 billion together. And if there is to be a memorial Greece, even after the Memorandum of Tsipras, if it is implemented and executed properly, the country should be able to finance its debt. And for this to happen, with an agreed primary surplus of 3.5% over the next few years, this is unfortunately unthinkable. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately for the government, another great idea, such as that of debt restructuring, finds, in turn, the way to murmuring. Of course, what we must all remind you is that with the previous government debt service has been reduced to about 10 billion a year. Every year! Something that your own rapporteur's report confirms, which we currently have in our hands, confirms. Unfortunately, you will remain in history as the government, as the MPs of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, who have promised the future of the next many generations. And I would remind you that you did this through the debt relief for 2060, you did it through the supranational destabilisation for the next ninety years, the maintenance of the EMFF by 2037, and by a surplus of 3.5% for the next ten years. We have been living these days in the last episode of serialization, which has a title "We have negotiated hard, somewhere we have lost our way to socialism, but unfortunately we have been defeated". Unfortunately, one thing remains for you, ladies and gentlemen, and that is the election. Thank you, very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u543	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Christos Simorellis, MP of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u544	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we can say 'Good morning'. We had positive developments in the Eurogroup yesterday. Of course, the opposition parties and especially the New Democracy and the PASOK were only enough to say a few words, namely that we did the same. Why, gentlemen of the New Democracy and of the PASOK, have you not done so many years? Why did you prefer to do the destructive policy with the PSI, which wiped out all those who took the bonds and destroyed the insurance funds? One more thing. You of the New Democracy are talking about the infamous agreement of truth, but you choose the lies. You forget that with the previous Samara - Venizelos government agreement, the country was committed to unthinkable primary surpluses of up to 4.5%. Specifically, the second memorandum committed the country to primary surpluses: in 2015, 3%, in 2016, 4.2%, and in 2018, 4.5% of GDP, that is, in other words, you brought the Greek people with 20 billion. Fortunately, you're not in the government. Ladies and gentlemen, ratification of the state budget for 2017 is a top political event. The second budget that this government endorses is the proof that even in difficult conditions of existence, if there is political will, the pillars of the social state and our weakest fellow citizens can be protected, who have accepted and accepted the legacy of the memoranda. The 2016 government budget set the foundations for overturning the austerity regime and for moving towards fiscal stability. This budget now consolidates the budgetary balance and plays an important role in restoring market confidence in the bleak Greek economy. As happened in 2016, we are now waiting for the primary surplus of 0.25% of GDP to be exceeded, which will enable us to meet our commitments and to strengthen social protection that goes beyond relief measures, plays an important role in the recovery of the economy. The forecast for growth in 2017 is 2.7%, while the target is 1.75% of GDP. Let us not forget that the aim of the second Memorandum of Understanding of the Government of New Democracy - PASOK for the same year was 4.5%. That would cost the Greek people more than 8 billion this year, as I said before. These are all negotiating and political will products. We don't cut or talk about successory. We are making every effort to recover the economy, reduce unemployment and get back on our feet. In this effort, ladies and gentlemen, you must be with us, especially if we consider the huge part of the responsibility that lies with the previous governments in which many and many of you have participated. Do not sabotage the recovery effort. The success of the government's programme will bring a step closer to the country in getting away from the size of the committee and the memoranda. Included in the budget are aid in areas for which the Left has fought. It includes the full extension of the social solidarity income of a total of EUR 760 million to protect more than two hundred and fifty thousand households in need. The areas of education, health and social security are supported by an additional EUR 300 million. There is provision for a contribution to protect the main residence of the overdue households of EUR 100 million and for an increase in the national part of the Public Investment Programme by EUR 250 million. Our aim is to alleviate social and economic disparities, reduce unemployment and relaunch the economy. To sum up, this budget gives the mark of growth, social protection, and with real elements it opens a new period for the Greek economy. Let us also note that a crucial role for developments next year will be played by the debate on debt restructuring, which will play a key role in restoring investor confidence and the credibility of the economy. We have seen tangible results here. Monday's Eurogroup decision on short-term measures is an important success and a decisive step towards stabilising the Greek economy. We are not going to accept in any case the requirement for measures after the end of the programme. Unfortunately, we have seen New Democracy officials raise the issue of debt in a matter of secondary importance. Really, people who support this with who are they? Definitely, not with the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to vote on the budget and to support the national effort to restructure the debt. The government's major objective is, SYRIZA is not yet a government of crisis, but the government that will get the country out of the crisis. The fight that opens before us is great and difficult. With society on our side, we can make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u545	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Panagiotis Iliopoulou from Golden Dawn has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u546	Thank you, Mr President. Yesterday, several dozen para-states, with the tolerance of SYRIZA and the police, destroyed Athens once again. They made Athens look like a war zone. This, of course, does not happen in a serious state. However, since we are not talking about a serious state, and we are talking about the state of SYRIZA, it could therefore, after having caught its twenty-three good-children yesterday, take them to the prosecutor today and count the damage done yesterday - I say it, since we are talking about a budget, it is irrelevant to our point - and these twenty-three to cut costs, increased, of course, by administrative fines. In a government, of course, this would be unacceptable. There would be no such thought in these para-states to do what they do with the SYRIZA government. So let's go to the budget. Even a freshman, an ignorant of finance, would understand that the country's budget should be balanced. That's what we're producing, that's what we're eating, that's what we're spending. We, for the last 40 years as a country, have been surpassing, but not to throw money into primary and secondary production, not to put money into investment, which will bring money back to our home country, but to get the money we borrow into some pockets, to inflate the accounts abroad to some people, who have been living at the expense of the rest of the Greeks and, finally, to get into a vicious circle, tourniquet, to borrow, to redeem the previous loans and debts. This is something that, with mathematical accuracy, leads our economy and our homeland in general to destruction. In this circumstance, then, SYRIZA continues the same policy we had used to in recent years. We had a budget, which poorly came to the House, and now those who give you the orders, your mandates, an additional 3.5% surplus, which you will accept, no matter what you say. The previous ones said the same thing. That's what you say. You're going to do a nice piece of shit, and you're gonna take 3.5%. There are therefore additional measures from what you have brought us here, which is EUR 5.5 billion, money that does not come from production, but comes only from an increase in taxes and an increase in insurance contributions. We do not produce almost anything as a country. All enterprises close, either after or migrate abroad. Businesses, which until recently made a profit, had some workers, are forced to close or migrate, as I said, one after another. For four hundred and thirty thousand young Greek graduates, educated, according to their statistics, the cost of their training alone exceeds EUR 8 billion - for their primary, secondary and higher education. They have migrated to foreign countries and in these countries they give taxes and insurance contributions of 9.1 billion. They offer the GDP of the newly installed countries 12.1 billion. In total, over these years, these young people have offered to these countries and not to our country, more than 50 billion. So, before we enter the memoranda, before these lighters come and impose what has been imposed in the last six years, it was 115% of GDP. As soon as we entered the tempted data, it went to 124% of GDP. And after all this cruel austerity, which has exhausted the Greek people, we have now come to accept a debt of 185% of GDP. In other words, it exceeds 330 billion, a debt that has not been created, I repeat, for investments and primary production. The per capita income of pre-memorandums was above EUR 12,000 and today, it has fallen below EUR 7,500. In other words, there was a 36% reduction. But those who have paid the most are the tents, who have seen their income falling by 44%, please. We are the only - the last basic - country that does not subsidise and support families and does not support births. That's why we have a huge hyponativity issue. We'll talk about this some other time. Five out of ten Greeks, unemployed or partly employed, want to emigrate to foreign countries. It's perfectly normal. So let's go to the extra cost that illegal immigrants are causing in our devastated and stricken home economy. HSBC says it. We don't. The report was published on Monday. It says, therefore, that the cost can be up to EUR 4 billion a year. So the cost for every illegal immigrant is about 16,000 euros a year. So imagine if we were to give someone new Greek to work at EUR 750, the salary you were saying will be the minimum wage - of course, you have reached him under the EUR 300 that you said was a lost generation, you have already taken him under the EUR 300 - imagine if we were to give him EUR 9 000 a year, what would offer our country. On the contrary, we give EUR 16 000 a year - that is the cost - for every illegal immigrant. Their feeding exceeds 180 million. Their accommodation in a container costs about 16,000 euros each. The three hundred and fifty-nine of these containers were taken by the son of the communist, Kokalis, of course. You gave it to him, the neo-communists. Illegal immigrants enjoy medical treatment free of charge in our homeland, while a Greek, if he wants to go to a hospital, is charged if he is uninsured. Illegal immigrants enter freely, operate, give birth to our homeland. They prefer us to come from foreign countries, from Bulgaria and other countries, which have underdeveloped health systems. We are therefore preferred for their operations and their births, without paying a single euro. Education: Only for transferring illegal immigrants from hot spot to schools 9.2 million. So we can barely offer them training and we pay her gold. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Electricity: Illegal immigrants enjoy unlimited electricity where they live, when you "friends" and "humanists" of SYRIZA, who are complaining and protesting, cut the current on Greeks. Illegal immigrants enjoy unlimited power. 40% of Greeks and especially - take care - one in four children under the age of seventeen live below the poverty line. What do you Syrians have to say again with what you have achieved over the years of your governance? You are reducing the defensive costs, while the Turks are doing a "part" against us. By the time they're overarming, you're reducing defence spending. This is your national strategy and your national policy. Because I see that I have exceeded time, so I will say, in order for the Greeks to know, we need to inform them of our fellow people, the Greeks who are listening to us - that every 1% surplus, every 1% of GDP, corresponds to 1.8 billion euros. Of these, we could abolish the ENPHA that costs us 3.1 billion, the excise duty - which you have put on excise duty at what is now on the market, and soon nothing -440 million will move. New EPC haircut: 586 million. Auxiliary pensions: 208 million. The list is endless.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u547	Come on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u548	I'll be done in less than a minute. The list is endless with what we could do with the 30 billion you pay for loans and interest payments every year, which we, the Golden Dawn, would not recognize, would not pay and all that would go to real production. You celebrate something they gave you, which is only accounting. I close with something that concerns the Greeks very much, with a decision by Ioannis Metaxas not to recognise a debt in 1936. Allow me, Mr President, to close with this. I'll read it, it's only ten lines.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u549	We're in ten minutes, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u550	I'm done. Another speaker remains to speak. I shall read it out precisely because it is a 1938 text which is opportune as ever: 'Sometimes there can be an extraordinary situation which makes it impossible for governments to fulfil their obligations towards lenders and their people. The country's resources are insufficient to fulfil both obligations at the same time. It is impossible to pay the debt and at the same time to provide the people with the proper administration and the guaranteed conditions for moral, social and economic development." It's a 1938 text. I'm stressing it. And it continues: "The painful problem arises when one has to choose between the two tasks. One must retreat towards the other. What should that be?’ And it closes: 'In the event that the debt payment jeopardises economic life or management, the government is obliged to discontinue, even to reduce the debt service'. John Metaxas dared to do what he did not dare to do any of your governments. It should be noted that the International Court of Justice accepted Greece's rationale and justified it. But you democrats enslaved the next generations with debts that do not account for them. You, like previous governments, will also be accountable when there is a national government in our country and an independent judiciary that will judge you. And the only independent government for our country is a Golden Dawn government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u551	Last colleague to speak is Ms. Merope Jufie from SYRIZA. However, Mr Saridis was not in the Chamber before, and because I have been asked by Mr Papaliou, he could have taken the last floor and closed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u552	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, these hours, such words. In closing today's sitting, I really would not like to comment on this storm last speaker. Let's say a word. Never fascism! And I will go further, because I had planned to start by saying that what one should look for in here is that the right reason should prevail in the debate. He said so to the end of his position and the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Hatzidakis. In fact, he spoke of a'revolution of common sense'. However, as a whole, as many colleagues from all over the opposition have said, they have chosen a completely fanatical and populist communication line. We have just heard of the 'grains'! And all this is to increase the emotional burden or even cause the despair of the citizens, without realising the criticality of the situation, I would say, of course, as we have heard before, for the sake of the country. Or is it for the sake of those interests that are being pushed unnecessarily for their immediate return to power regardless of costs? That remains to be proved. However, the Government will strive to draw up a realistic plan capable of meeting the country's financial needs by maintaining the budgetary balance in order to complete the recovery of credibility and enable it to come out of the fiscal adjustment programme as soon as possible, and by ensuring that the adjustment costs are shared fairly and that the socially fair distribution of the benefit of the already under way recovery is not called into question. Ladies and gentlemen, in the current draft budget, therefore, there are a number of positive messages, but also difficulties, such as in every budget, especially in times of crisis. On the one hand, we are trying to be consistent, as I said before, in the country's financial obligations, but on the other hand, to alleviate the people who have been wronged in recent years of the crisis. In order to do this, however, crucial and chronic issues such as tax evasion, smuggling should have been dealt with and the necessary reforms have been made to finally pay the "gainers" of this country, which for at least for at least forty years, but I would say before, with the consent of the older power parties, only paid on a voluntary basis. Did we do this in this little time? Could we? The answer is: Not yet. The difficulties are many, since these measures, although steps have been taken, are not directly efficient and are also not calculated, since they are considered as non-measurable by the institutions. So the citizen understands that we, too, continue to bear the usual'sugars', wages and pensioners and the consistent midwives and the self-employed. However, to say by those in charge of the crisis, namely PASOK and New Democracy, that the rule of SYRIZA over this two-year period - not even two years - was the total disaster for the country and the total evil is not only hypocritical, but also completely unfair. One only objective: To lead to the remembrance of the Greek people for the many 'achievements', because they still feel vulnerable, as it continues to experience a cumulatively difficult reality, to make him forget what they have caused, the huge increase in unemployment, the reduction of gross national product by 25%, the dramatic increase in poverty, the decline in births and population, the migration of the new generation, the bankruptcy of banks and insurance funds and the demolition of collective bargaining, which has been declared the maximum reform by the International Monetary Fund. But, ladies and gentlemen, despite social automation and populist setback, we are not all the same either here or outside in society. Sartre says on the left is to see things on the side of the weak. In this context, therefore, the main pillar and the plan under discussion is social protection. The argument that the increase in social expenditure is completely untrue, if the figures are correctly compared, suggesting that the social budget of 2017, compared with 2016, is increased by EUR 650 million compared to that of the budget. More specifically, with the figures of the General Secretariat of Welfare for 2017, 1,479,000 euros have been budgeted to meet needs, such as the implementation of the programme of social solidarity income on a pan-Hellenic scale, with terms and rules rather than distractively, unlike you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK, who have been responsible for implementing it since 2012. You didn't do any programs. You only provided a one-off provision, for which you are proud, with unspecified criteria, to pre-selected municipalities, without a reliable platform and even on the eve of the elections that you have caused. Our package provides, not only for the income support of people living in poverty, but also for access and interconnection with additional benefits and services and for the promotion of beneficiaries in work and training programmes, and this year the aim is to cover two hundred and fifty thousand families. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the Social Welfare Centres with a transparent system, clear rules for working relationships, management and evaluation, with a view to decoupling and decoupling. There is provision for the uninterrupted payment of the allowances. I would remind you here that wheelchair and family allowances have been guaranteed, which has been achieved after an important battle with the institutions, which have recognised their very low height in relation to the other countries of the European Union, but have acknowledged our credibility in respect of the agreement to create a single paying agency for these allowances, with the creation of two hundred and fifty-four community centres through which the corresponding allowances will be approved and granted, with direct access by the person concerned, without mediation, only with his VAT. Of course, in this effort, an important role was played by the single database set up by us in the HRB on all the benefits from which they come from. Social protection expenditure continued to be strengthened by facilitating the movement of vulnerable social groups by means of transport, smooth funding with national resources of poverty structures, as well as the extension of the school meal programme. Significant interventions, confirming our army in support of vulnerable groups, are also the legislature to cover 15% of permanent posts in IFRD posts by people with disabilities or family members who have in their care with serious disabilities, priority appointments of substitutes for teachers and other staff, with increased staff in support of training and special education institutions, with guaranteed funds from the NFRD, increased funding for the integration of children into nurseries, with a view to extending the programme to all households, with income below the poverty line and to all households with disabled persons. Finally, our commitment to a fair distribution of the social dividend, which emerged from this year's difficult but surplus budget. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, our policy, despite the suffocating framework that has been imposed on us, aims to end the recession and the comitology by 2018, to reverse the social climate and build a credible, substantial and rewarding social state. For the final outcome, there are no certainties. Our country has become a field in which wider interests and pursuits conflict and international trends are also being shaped for future developments. But if the project succeeds, it will be the answer to why it is worth fighting in the pit of the lions of the European Union and the euro area. This is what is bothering many inside and outside Greece, especially the dominant political elites and unfortunately some of the organic intellectuals of the system and public opinion makers, and that is why we are lurking every day as "confidences", who have failed to take the rematch. But, with the help of the peoples and the new generation, I would hope - and I hope - that a reverse course for Europe today might begin, a convincing plan to re-establish it from the side of the European Left and not from fascist voices, so that we can see a future that is currently seemingly utopian, a future that if we do not see it, we will never be able to claim it. Thank you very much, Mr President, and your time tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u553	Thank you, my colleague. Mr. Papaliou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u554	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget being voted on has been drawn up and debated, in this particular context, at which the country is living. We are in the light of the completion of the second assessment, the agreement on short-term measures to regulate the unsustainable public debt, the integration of Greek bonds into the quantitative relaxation programme and the ending approach to the unrealisticness of the Greek economy. The year 2016 appears to be completed with a small growth of GDP, overcoming the planned primary surplus, with a net influx of deposits, with a decrease in the interest rates of ten-year bonds and an increase in exports after a five-year recession. 2017 is considered a year that, according to all forecasts, will mark the return of the Greek economy to positive growth, despite international uncertainty. The consistent implementation of the new support programme of the Greek economy, coupled with the gradual relaxation of the restrictions on capital movements, progress in the area of structural changes, efforts to deal with non-performing loans, is expected to lead to the full restoration of the credibility of the Greek economy. In addition, the full activation of the NRP, the implementation of the new development law, the increase in employment, is still expected to contribute to restarting the Greek economy, allowing the recording of positive growth rates from 2017 onwards. For 2017, the forecast for growth is 2.7%. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget being voted on is a small but important step in the implementation of government policy, with the priority of growth, the redistribution of tax burdens and public funds and even greater support for social policy and the protection of financially weak ones. The budget includes packages of measures by policy area, with an emphasis on structural changes, but also on key social objectives, in order to launch the gradual restoration of social imbalances. The new fiscal adjustment provides for primary surplus targets of 1.75% of GDP, as opposed to 4.5% agreed by the previous governments. These objectives significantly reduce the amount of financial measures required, releasing space for the gradual recovery of the economy, increasing the reliability of the programme and incorporating, inter alia, two critical government policies, namely the full extension of the social solidarity income of EUR 760 million and the increase of the national part of the Public Investment Programme by EUR 250 million, which reflects the development dimension of the government plan. In this context, the budget is based on three pillars combined, on budgetary equilibrium, on development dimension and on social justice, and at the same time on realistic budgetary objectives, characterised by flexibility, on margins that ensure the country's financial needs are properly met in the long term, on support for a new development model that is directed towards production by highlighting the country's comparative advantages, which are transformed into developmental axes, and on the prospect of extroversion. Finally, targeted measures to strengthen social cohesion. The specialisation of all these developmental and social elements is parallel actions, which have already begun to apply. Moreover, through the actions of the new ESRB, greater emphasis is placed on areas that produce goodwill, create jobs, sample both of the government philosophy and of the potential of the Greek economy. In the same direction, the new development law, that is, to create a new productive economic model and, as a result, to redirect the resources available. Furthermore, and despite the budgetary constraints in the 2017 budget, there are - as has been said before - EUR 300 million in support of health, welfare and education, EUR 760 million in implementing the social solidarity income throughout the country, EUR 250 million in increasing the Public Investment Programme, financing research and funding of repatriation programmes for young researchers, as well as EUR 100 million in cutting housing loans to very poor debtors, who can not help their loans. These are measures that support development and promote social justice. In other words, these are development redistribution measures. It is not enough, since more interventions of this kind are needed. But it's a start. This is based on the design of the country's socially fair productive reconstruction, which is not limited to the quantitative, but is based on the qualitative dimension of the programmes that are being implemented, and finance investment projects, since they are intended to be used and not simply to absorb these funds. In this context, the reorientation of the production model is also being attempted, with a shift towards production. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a comment. The MPs of the Opposition and today, as in the debate of other bills, practice themselves in exercises of self-esteem expectation and prophecy. These exercises were initiated before the January 2015 elections and continued after them: The credit suffocation prepared for the country, in view of their defeat, the undermining of Greek positions during the negotiation, the "yes" in the referendum and their expectation of defeat of SYRIZA in the September 2015 elections. They are still continuing today, with the expectation of the evaluation being failed and of SYRIZA being a "left parenthesis". And all their expectations have been disproved and will continue to be disproved as long as the Colleagues of Anti-Population do not analyse the stubborn reality, the one the Greek people know, regardless of whether there is temporary discontent today. The Greek people know that the responsibility for the situation in which the countries have come is for the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, that the government is struggling with it and that the only alternative that New Democracy proposes is neoliberalism, that is, more austerity, cuts, unemployment and social analgesia. That is why I call on all of you to support the national effort by voting on the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u555	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. We have reached the end of today's sitting. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-07-S1-commons.u556	With the consent of the House, the meeting for December 8, 2016, at 10.00, on the subject of this House's legislative work is to continue the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Structuring the State Budget for the financial year 2017’.
