ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the quorum is to be established. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 6-5-2016, the minutes of its PRACTICAL sessions, of Friday, 6 May 2016, with regard to the vote in the entire draft law: "Consolidation on research and other provisions".]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK The only debate and vote on the principle, articles, amendments and the whole draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: "The Single Social Security System - Reformation of an insurance- pension system - Regulations on taxation of income and gambling and other provisions". I would like to inform you that the Conference of Presidents decided by a majority, at its meeting on 5-5-2016, to discuss the draft law in two meetings. We propose that the draft law should become uniform at the outset, on the articles and on the amendments as one section. I also propose that the debate should be organised, in accordance with Rule 65(5) of the Rules of Procedure, after the speech by the rapporteurs and special speakers to take the floor from a single list of speakers, consisting of three full circles of speakers in proportion to the parliamentary power of the parties. The names of the colleagues have been given by the respective parties. Each cycle will include five MPs from SYRIZA, three MPs from New Democracy and one speaker from the other parties, i.e. a total of five from SYRIZA, nine from New Democracy and so on. Independent Members will be added at the end of each cycle, if they wish to take the floor. Finally, we will follow the speeches of the Members, who will be enrolled with the electronic system in their order of registration, up to the end of the speech of the second rapporteur. Also, Minister, as far as you are concerned, I propose that we begin with the rapporteurs-general, the six special speakers, and then take the floor. As far as the amendments are concerned, I want them to be four. That is the decision of the Conference of Presidents. The ministerial amendments are late, but they meet the requirement that we, with abstention from Mr Kegeroglou's specific debate, should have a report from the General Accounting Office of the State. I have checked them and indeed have the report of the General Accounting Office. For reasons of equality, we now have twelve late amendments tabled by colleagues. If any of them or any of them are accepted, I would like to ask you, at the latest this afternoon, to have an answer to this question, given that the debate is being held in bloc. The en block has been chosen, ladies and gentlemen, because it is almost certain - not to say 100% for sure - that there will be a roll-call vote tomorrow. Instead of making two votes, one on the principle and one on the articles, there will be a single vote, if there is a roll-call vote tomorrow. Today the sitting will go until 12. Tomorrow the sitting will be closed, if there is a roll-call vote, at 2 p.m., so that the roll-call vote can also be concluded. If there is no question of a roll-call vote, I would suggest to the President of Parliament that this two-hour hour should be used to speak to colleagues who are outside the three defined circles of the names of colleagues who have been given by the parties. At the same time, consider that tomorrow all the political leaders will speak, so a long time will go to the talks of the political leaders. Minister, four are the ministerial amendments and we are done. The decision of the Conference of Presidents is unanimous. Let us not see that at night or tomorrow other ministerial amendments will be tabled. I've made it quite clear since this morning. The decision of the Conference of Presidents was unanimous. In fact, the President of Parliament said about the report by the State General Accounting Office. If, therefore, there is no substantial objection to the proposed procedure, we should start and not waste any time in procedural terms.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u2	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Brutsi, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u4	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u5	Minister, I'll give you the floor right after. Here, Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, before the process begins, I would like to make two remarks, which concern the House and the Greek society, on the crucial issue of the bill, which we will discuss this weekend. The first has to do with the present Minister, Mr. Katrugalo. Mr Minister, it is not necessary that, before we begin the debate on insurance, you should bring about a proportionate study. You are currently thinking of Parliament, of the Members of Parliament and of the Greek society, the necessary accompanying analogous study on the sustainability of the system of amendments, of the provisions which you are bringing to Parliament today, in order to vote, which are extremely necessary. The second point, Mr President, concerns the amendment by the Ministry of Finance. Look, gentlemen. Before the process begins, Mr President, we believe that it is necessary for Mr Tsakalotos to come in, because it is a critical and fundamental size of the debate, to inform us of the duty-free and the change he has put forward, because we all very much remember the red lines of Mr Tsakalotos for the 9,500 and 12 000 tax-free. Today an amendment is tabled, which is dramatically altering duty-free, and that has a huge impact on the lives of the Greeks. We therefore consider that Mr Tsakalotos should be explained so that he is part of the position of the rapporteurs and Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u7	Minister, I will leave you last, because Mr Mandash has also asked for the floor, so that you can answer a whole question, if necessary. As far as the first part of your remark, Mr Brutsi, was concerned at the Conference of Presidents, your seated Mr. Tsiaras, in the capacity of the Secretary of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, put it at the Conference of Presidents. You mentioned it today, but it was put at the Conference of Presidents and other colleagues from other parties. As far as the second part is concerned, I will not be delayed waiting for Mr Tsakalotos to come. However, it is certain that it will not be introduced into the vote unless either Mr Tsakalots or Mr Alexiades defend and analyse the amendment which exists. This is always done and, therefore, it is self-evident. But we will not delay the process. Mr. Mada, you have the floor for two minutes, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, your proposal on the procedure is generally acceptable. I simply think the Minister should clarify for his part whether he prefers to speak after the end of the rapporteurs or at the beginning of such an important bill. That's what the Minister will say himself. Secondly, I would like to say, in order to restore the truth, that the proportionate study has already been submitted, in addition to the EBRD, in which there were differences, in relation to the facilities for young scientists, etc., for which we are waiting for the - if you want - for this part of the proportionate study by the ILO. Therefore, there is a proportionate study. That's what I mean. Secondly, on the issue of the amendment, as you have rightly said, it is clear that there will be an explanation and information, and it is also quite obvious that this will be before the voting process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u9	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Obviously, the New Democracy cannot tolerate the denial of its continuing claims that there will be no proportionate study and that is why it is coming back and now that it has been tabled. I will simply submit to you a press release of 25 January 2011 by Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Security Mr. Koutromani, who, the following year by the one who submitted the bill in 2011, states: "Today I am pleased to present studies on the three largest funds in our country, which are the IKA, the OAU and the OGA." It is three and not four, as we and the next year since the law was passed and not before it was passed. [[At this point, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity George Katrugalos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I would remind you that, despite my opposite personal, theoretical, scientific opinion, the Council of State considers that proportionate studies are not necessary in order to vote for an insurance bill. In spite of this confession, because my personal, theoretical and scientific opinion is this, I have tabled this study and, for the first time, for the first time, three other specific studies that meet the specific requirements of the case law of the Council of State, so that the House can examine, on the basis of scientific facts and not just statements of policies, the real situation in which the insurance system is found. The Minister of Finance will be here. As you know, this is a particularly tough negotiation until Monday, which obviously requires its presence in order to deal effectively with this negotiation, without that being acknowledging its obligations vis-à-vis Parliament. As regards your procedural proposal, Mr President, there will be no amendments that do not have the report of the General Accounting Office of the State. I am not sure that among the four is an important, my signature. Therefore, subject to this condition that there will be no amendments that will be denied the signature of the General Accounting Office, I agree with your proposal. Let me tell you that it was difficult, as our amendment, our Ministry, was ready, but yesterday the General Accounting Office was occupied. There was, therefore, a fact of force majeure that, like all events of force majeure, I believe that this House should agree to suspend the deadline and therefore, on that basis, these amendments should be considered in the short term. Finally, because there is a State Secretary with special responsibility for this matter, I would suggest, Mr President, if it does not upset you to plan, that I speak before the special rapporteurs and Mr Petropoulos afterwards, so that he may also be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u11	Oh, no! Don't give me that now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u12	We won't fight about the show! Well, calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u13	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u14	Mr. Brutsi, you don't have the floor. Sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u15	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a few seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u16	Sit down. Others have asked for the floor. Sit down! Mr Pafilis, Mr Loverdos, therefore, have the floor as parliamentarians and Mr Panayotaros, for two minutes. But here's what I'm going to tell you. If we eat at the moment by means of a procedure, so that we can finally come to the proposal that I have told you, that is at the expense of our colleagues. I am obliged to give the Members - and I shall give them the floor - the floor, but I would like to point it out to you. Here you go, Mr. Paphie, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u17	Mr President, even though this procedure has been agreed, the unacceptable and provocative act of the government cannot go so far as to bring about such a serious bill, for which the whole of Greece has risen, within the weekend, much more than it has fooled us rawly. Because in a question that we asked in committee, do you intend to bring it to the committee for a weekend, the answer was by the Minister and the chairman of the committee, that there is no case at all. If the government thinks that this weekend will prevent workers from mobilising and if he thinks that even if he votes, he's going to get out of trouble, he's making a big mistake. He'll pay them very expensive for the next period. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Do we have another president who arranges? Because the President didn't interrupt me. The second point I would like to make is that we shall submit a request for a roll-call vote to be clear. Now, with regard to the analogy complaints, etc., there is a proportional slaughter, literally, of social security. And so the rest is superfluous. We say: Withdrawal of the bill. There's nothing left, either proportional or nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Loverdos has the floor for two minutes. Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u19	With regard to the procedure, you mentioned it, Mr President - and thank you for that - that our representative at the Conference of Presidents, Mr Kegeroglu, has disagreed with the procedure as a whole. And I want by the way, why do we have to do this...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u20	The whole Opposition disagreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u21	You made a reference to us and I underline it. I would also like to highlight a provision made by a colleague who fell in, by Mr Paphie, that this draft law will come this weekend. He said so at the first meeting of the Committee on Economic and Social Affairs on the subject. Now, look, Mr President, the Ministry of Labour is coming here and the Ministry of Finance is systematically hiding. You know that Article 114 of the draft law provides for measures of 1,700,000,000 euros. And today this amendment, which goes to the tax-free rate at EUR 8,600, entails an additional expense for the Greek citizen of EUR 200,000 000. It is not possible for the debate to go as it went to committee, with the Ministry of Sugar hiding. He'll be here. It will come, Mr President, and the Bureau will have to ensure that. The Minister of Finance will come here. He will not hide as he has been hiding for fifteen days. Now in relation to what the Minister of Insurance said about their locations, it is not possible to make the debate in the House by the Ministry. We have accepted a practice since the previous period of the Parliament not to be followed by the Minister of the rapporteurs, the speaker and the first six Members, but to be preceded. That is right, since it is taking a legislative initiative. But what he proposes today, after speaking, is not to speak to the rapporteurs, to speak to his State Secretary. For then, if you accept that, the Minister, instead of speakers and rapporteurs, will have to speak with the parliamentary representatives, so the process will be blown up. Please look at this very carefully. Don't start with poaching! Let's start seriously.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u22	As far as I am concerned, Mr Loverdos, your first request is concerned, I would like to tell you that and I will not be very pleased by the colleagues, apart from the lists given by the parties, because no one will speak almost. I have the list of ministers who will speak - and the three of the Ministry of Finance will speak, according to paper from the Government Secretariat - one, Mr Alexiadis, today and the other two, Mr Tsakalotos and Mr Juliarakis, tomorrow. So the presence of the Ministry of Finance will be in excess, if not over-exceed, because calculate time and see where they will be lost. As far as the second one is concerned, I agree. Mr Petropoulos will not speak immediately after the last speaker, since Mr Katrugalos - I think you have quite rightly said it too - has begun. The list will begin and the Minister will speak in the intervening period. You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u23	After the first circle.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u24	First of all, they are the first eight, two rapporteurs and six special speakers. We will enter the list of the first cycle and that is where Mr Petropoulos will speak. For your information, I would like to inform you that apart from Mr Katrougalos and Mr Petropoulos, the floor will also be given by Mr Stathakis and the three of the Ministry of Finance, as I said, Mr Philis, Mrs Fotou, Mr Papapas - I suppose - for his amendment, Mr Kourublis and tomorrow evening, Mr Drasakis, as Vice-President of the Government. Therefore, as far as the presence of the government is concerned, I would say too much, because time is lost by the Members. Now, Mr. Loverdo, do you want the Minister to start and then discuss the anti-constitutional application or precede?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u25	Now to be discussed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u26	Okay. I therefore hope that this procedure will close the procedural procedure to get into the bill. I therefore read: ‘Responses to the constitutionality of Article 41 ‘Securitisation contributions to healthcare of the draft law: ‘Single social security system, pension insurance reform’ in relation to Article 4, Article 21(3), Article 22(5) and Article 25(1) of the Constitution, as well as Article 104 in relation to Articles 4(5) and 26 of the Constitution. Andreas Lovedros, Parliamentary Representative of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR» The saying will be Mr. Loverdos, the match will be Mr. Lappas, as usual. And I suggest to the other parties or their parliamentary representatives, or if the parliamentary representative does not want, until the first two have finished, have told us who will speak for five minutes if...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u27	We need to see the text with the articles, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u28	Yes, I have read it, but I would ask you to take a photo and share it with all the parliamentary representatives and the parliamentary representatives will give it to the Members who are chosen. So that we don't waste time, Mr. Loverdo, you're starting...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u29	Mr President, I asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u30	Yeah, I'm sorry. Mr. Panayotus, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make a comment on the analogy study, which everyone wanted. He came at the last minute and he's incomplete. This proportionate study confirms what everyone, institutions, opposition, all of Greece: it is not sustainable for the insurance funds with the new measures that you are going to bring and you are trying to convince the Greek people that this will save the situation. The deficit will be at EUR 16.7 billion, which means that with the new measures that literally dissolve what remains of the country's productive fabric, they may give a breath for a few months and nothing more. We would like the Minister not to think that Greek citizens are musicians, they are choles and you can tell them that you have brought a proportionate study. It is not a proportionate study that you brought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u32	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, I want the floor to say...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Pappa, speak to Mr. Panayotarus.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u35	I mean something for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u36	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u37	Mr President, it is irrelevant to the bill, but it is relevant to the Bureau and the procedure. A moment ago, the Parliamentary spokesman for the PASOK Democratic Incorporation - DIMAR said disgraceful about the Ministry of Finance and said the Ministry of Sourada. You will obviously also say the political leadership of the Ministry of Sugar. Is that so, sir?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u38	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u39	That's right. You agree. I have to say, Mr President, that you have recently voted for an abominable Code of Conduct, which was cut and sewn precisely for the positions and actions within the Greek Parliament of the Members of the Golden Dawn. When Mr. Loverdos described the ministries and the Ministry of Finance, there was not a single cich on the part of SYRIZA, nor a "kich" on the government benches, nor a "kich" until now. I want to denounce the fact of you, too, for not interrupting. I don't disagree on the basis of the designation, Mr. Loverde. I'm in favor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u40	What you are talking about now has nothing to do with legislative work.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u41	It is on a point of order, Mr President, and on your presidency. I say it's not just the Ministry'surrada'. The whole government is "government - hare". Anyway, why didn't you interrupt Mr. Loverdos under the new Code of Conduct?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u42	For you did not see that Mr Loverdos did the phrase with his hands 'in the introductory part'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u43	Insert? Other words to be loved!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u44	So sit down and you don't have the floor again. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, please respect the students and students whose presence I will announce and silence. It is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "Electronics VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty two students and students and three teachers from the University School of Silver Heraklion Crete. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor for five minutes as saying the issue of unconstitutionalism.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, if anyone objected to the constitutional objections made by Mr.3863/2010, which I had suggested and read what Mr Lafazanis and Mr. Pavlopoulou said today, he would be laughing. If he listened to or read what the current Prime Minister said, then as Head of SYRIZA in his speech on issues of constitutionality of that law, he would break out in laughter and then in tears, of course, because this man became a prime minister. I'm not going to follow that logic. "Listen a lot, ladies and gentlemen of the majority. Even the Scientific Studies Directorate with what it says today in its report is for you not to smile, ladies and gentlemen, who will vote by order today on the millions that you will receive from the reduction of widowhood allowances, from the netting of individual differences, from the reduction of new pensions, from the abolition of the CSCE. The bill's about three billion. And we'll see you in detail when the time comes. So instead of being happy today, you should know that this is the day you have yourself in relation to what you were saying to become a majority and what you say today and what you say in committee, dig your political pit. I'm not going to follow this practice. I shall be very vivid in the text you read, Mr President. Of all the things that they say to themselves in their own yesterday, all that the report of the Scientific Studies Directorate says very seriously, I will do my own assessment and I will not consider any provision with which I disagree and unconstitutional, to "do my part" and fill with arguments in the Chamber. I'll be very, very careful and very vibrant. Two are the clear cases, but so much that they "eye out" and it is worth wondering how the majority will be treated in terms of these two: Ladies and gentlemen, the Scientific Research Directorate tells you that if a worker or employer makes an unjustified contribution, and the fund owes them to him, he will return them without delay. Even if it is a pending court case, Article 104 also applies to that case. And it tells you: Unconstitutionality with Article 4(5) on equality and Article 26 on jurisdiction of justice. And it's obvious. Put your common mind down and not your legal mind. There's no need for the second one. Think with common sense, he owes you the public, because he wrongly took your contributions, and he comes back to you at once. Article 104. Note it. Secondly, the case referred to in Article 41 is more serious. Mr President, this message is received by the House, but also by the hundreds of thousands of free businessmen. He's been sick. He's been providing a health service to a public hospital for five days, with the same doctor, and he's been giving him the same medication. Health and medical care. Depending on his income, his contribution shall be determined. For similar cases and situations - exactly the same - different payment, different cost. Here we have - Mr President - the provisions of Article 4 on equality, the provisions of Article 21(3) on health, Article 22(5) on social security, and Article 25 of the Constitution imposing on the State, on you, Ministers, on the legislative initiative, to protect the rights of people and citizens. To close, Mr President, I say this: I am not expanding. I have a measure, in order to listen and wish either the national delegation or the national delegation Members to decide correctly. And I'm saying, by closing that all over the planet, equilibrium down was disapproved as a miserable tactic. Don't let her become a fundamental value in this country. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u46	As an opponent of SYRIZA, Mr. Lappas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u47	Mr. Loverdos said he'd laugh to the sparse goat, if we read what we said as Civic Opposition. We'll laugh twice if anyone reads the Minutes. 3863, where Mr. Loverdos and his colleagues, as expected, had objected to unconstitutionalism towards the New Democracy. I speed up two or three things to see who's gonna laugh better and who's gonna laugh last. The rapporteur from PASOK at the time of the 2010 reform was Mr Robles Papoutsis, and I think Mr Papoutsis, as a rival, was a rapporteur. For all four articles you propose, Mr Loverdo, if you read the Minutes of your own people, you will see a constitutional approval and analysis of all four articles, which you now say are at the limit of unconstitutionality.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u48	I said two articles. Which four?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u49	Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u50	Refer to Article 4 on equality, Article 21 on the obligation of the State to provide social security, Article 25(1) of the Constitution on proportionality and Article 104. These four articles you mentioned. Mr Rovelias says there, on the contrary from PASOK: "Undoubtedly, the state must guarantee the right to social security. However, as the primary criterion for any legislative intervention and change is the element of viability.’ That's not what you said. Mr. Robles makes a speech, praising essentially the criterion of sustainability. It also mentions two decisions of the Council of State, 3847/2008 and 2198/2010, where the Council of State accepts the restriction, weighting, reduction of the pension benefits limits still under one criterion: if this is required by the element of viability. You also didn't say a word. One more thing. Your rapporteur, then, says that this is acceptable both from the legal order of Greek law, from the Council of State and from Union law. It shall provide specific provisions from the SAD. You have overlooked this, and even the first Rome Protocol, where it accepts that the legislator of each Member State can intervene on the basis of sustainability and rationalise, balance, probably reduce some limits. That's the one. Secondly, Mr Papoutsis in the same debate - not to have my time with that - says exactly the same. Because, Mr Loverdos, the articles you are referring to are actually affecting the core of our legislative intervention, and one would say that your objection is actually raised at the beginning of the bill, so I would say two things. First, regarding the Court of Auditors' objections, on page 70 you will see a strong majority which states this...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u51	I would like to ask you, Mr President, if you would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u52	You neither sound nor write anything down. So take it easy. Go on, Mr. Lappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u53	I'm referring him there, I'm not talking about it. The latest decision of the Board of State, the Supreme Administrative Cecuniary, is Decision 2288/2015. It is a recent decision by the Plenary Assembly of the Council of State, which accepts everything I have told you before. In other words, the sustainability criterion allows the joint legislator to intervene, balance, rationalise, and if the presumption of viability also imposes certain reductions in pension ceilings, it is legally and legally permissible. The same goes for the ESA, and so is the first protocol in Rome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u54	What's that? We didn't do that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u55	He's free to say his argument. If he's convinced or not, it's a different matter. Are you sad about that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u56	But he won't be interrupted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u57	Mr President, I have had my time on vacation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u58	You have another minute, Mr. Lappa, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u59	I would say to Mr Loverdos and to everyone else who is compiling with the caller that we have just received the report from the Scientific Agency today. If one excludes a comment on page 10 in Chapter F, which refers to the large 35% ceiling, which is the upper limit for insurance contributions, which says that marginally it may be considered that it may have a problem of constitutionality, no other provision of the bill is observed even at a marginal level. Mr President, to close, there is no unconstitutionalism. I'm closing up with this. I would say to Mr Loverdos a comment by my colleague, Mr Kaidazis, who says that Article 100 of the Constitution is a serious instrument of control. But his multipurpose sometimes, he says, leads to constitutional unpredictableness for two reasons. Firstly, the multiplicity of objections to anti-constitutionalism and inflationist constitutionality slightly weakens the effectiveness of the institution of the objection and, in the long term, the prestige of the Constitution itself. And secondly - and more importantly, Mr President - the easy and up-to-date reduction in the Constitution is downgrading the democratic process itself, as it puts the fifth dimension of politics, which is nothing other than the strife of political ideas, choices and programmes. If everything is considered 'objective' under the Constitution - in fact, subjective interpretation of the Constitution - then what remains to disagree and confront politically?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u60	Okay, now don't read us a whole article from a newspaper. There's a rival.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u61	Mr President, I shall conclude. This is exactly what American constitutionalist Mark Tasnet calls it democratic degeneration."
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u62	Please, hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u63	It is a constitutional inadmissibility, as the constitutionalists say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that, because of the great interest in the bill and because, as you know, there is the media strike, too many of our compatriots, Greek and Greek women, are watching the Parliament's channel. I remind you of this to see what image Greeks and Greek women will see from all of us and first from the President-in-Office and then all of us. In the order of parliamentary order, Mr. Fortsakis will be given the floor from the Golden Dawn by Mr. Papas, from the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Pafilis, from Potami, Mr. Dannelis, from the ANELs you will find the floor when the time comes, and from the Central Association Mr. Karras, for five minutes. Then the Minister will take the floor, so we can close and get into the bill. Because this is of interest to the world, to hear what is going to happen either to the government or to the opposition. Mr. Fortsakis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u65	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not be taken away from my capacity as professor of Public Law. I'll talk to you as a citizen. I won't interpret the constitution. I'll tell you what case-law says. I therefore give information that we need to take into account, because what I shall say means, quite simply, that the courts will annul Parliament's decisions if Parliament's decisions are not in line with the Constitution in the interpretation of our supreme courts. I will raise five points in a lot less than one minute each. The first was put forward by Mr Loverdes and I will not come back in detail. We cannot treat ourselves in a disparate way, nor in a similar way. There is a clear confusion in the bill between the concept of social welfare, the concept of social security and the concept of social security contributions and tax. Redistribution only takes place with the tax. It is not about social security contributions. Therefore, it is not understood to have the same services by paying different contributions. Point 2: There is no analogous study. It is the case law, which has been expressed by both the Council of State and the Court of Auditors. I mention to you two decisions of the Council of State, 2287/2015 and 2290/2015, which, at the time of unconstitutionality, consider that there should definitely be a proportionate study. Why? This allows the court to determine whether there is or is not a observance of the principle of equal treatment, on the understanding that the obligations imposed on the persons concerned correspond to the benefits and whether there is a fair balance between the wider social interest, i.e. the viability of the pension system. I'm telling you the expressions of case law. Point 3: An alternative must have been studied and presented, namely that those alternative measures have been recorded, which in a milder way could provide the same solutions. The caselaw of the Court of Auditors and of the Council of State in respect of the principle of equality, i.e. Article 4(5) of the Constitution, follows this point. I would point out that the Court of Auditors twice underlined this in its plenary session in 2010 and a few days ago, in the practice that was put before the Ministry when the Court of Auditors delivered an opinion on the draft law. So we have three important points so far. Point 4: The incorporation into a common insurer of public and private employees is prohibited. There are many constitutional provisions to which the plenary of the Court of Auditors expressly refers. Article 103 of the Constitution, Article 73(2) of the Constitution, Article 98 (1) (d) of the Constitution, Article 80 (1) of the Constitution and Article 88(2) of the Constitution prohibit such consolidation as otherwise the exclusive jurisdiction of the Court of Auditors is changed. In view of this, the bill under consideration says the Court of Auditors, which will judge the differences that will arise from this - so you understand what it means to read - that, since it is based on the uniform treatment of persons who, according to the Constitution, cannot be subject to the same insurance body, it raises an issue of unconstitutionality, Minister, as a whole, as its legislative foundation is overthrown. You should therefore know from now on that you have the Court of Auditors' plenary before you, unless you decide that the Court of Auditors will somehow be silent.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u66	Are you in line with this practice?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u67	That's all!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u68	Last but not least, the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, which also points out the specific categories of insured, self-employed and self-employed, is the following: the imposition of a main pension contribution, subsidiary insurance, health care and a one-off benefit of more than 35% on income, in conjunction with the provisions on taxation contained in the same bill, is an excessive reduction in their income and affects, pursuant to Article 5(1) of the Constitution, the right to participate in the social and economic life of the country, even though there is some temporary regulation. So you have five major unconstitutional issues which, if they are not resolved, will be resolved by case law against, of course, ultimately, the viability of our system, which will again be delayed. That is why it is necessary, Minister, to take these laws into account and to adapt the bill to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u69	On behalf of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Christos Pappas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u70	Mr President, I will not speak as a simple citizen, as Mr Fortsakis said, but I shall speak as a nationalist MP, expressing the people. Because if the ordinary citizen did the analysis made by Mr Fortsakis, then we would be a country of philosophers and universities. Isn't that right, Professor? Bravo! I will not go into the essence of Mr Loverd's position, which he agrees with us - it is absolutely right to say what he said, regardless of whether it is in a different political area - because today the Left is stripped to the eyes of the Greek people, because it is shown that the neoliberal Left of the supposedly equality is now the Left of the memorandum and of economic interests. At the same time as the position of Mr. Fortsakis reveals that the so-called 'Decree' is hypocritical to the Greek people, because she itself has voted for all these measures and I would say that she would do the same and worse if she were in power. You, therefore, lose the declaring slogan that expresses you "Freedom, Equality, Brotherhood". So it's not the anti-constitutional bill. For us, it is the government, which has lost the real declared, declared to the Greek people. It is a clear day today, ladies and gentlemen, namely the 7th and 8th of May. For us, any impediment brought by the Greek people within or outside the Parliament, with social struggles, using Article 120 of the Constitution, by legal means, finds us absolutely in agreement, because nothing is pleasing. Everything is conquered with hard struggles and sacrifices. We know very well that we Greek nationalists, who have been persecuted, have blooded, have died, have been imprisoned for our ideas. Much more, the Greek people know that. We are calling today on the Greek people to be vigilant, to rise from the sofas, to leave the taverns and to claim their rights, because, ultimately, it is not only the funds that are non-viable. It is not a viable country with your Memorandum Policies and with your Trustees, European Trustees, right and left. Let them stop here, ladies and gentlemen, because the Greek people know you are the same. You are the different manifestations of the same cictocratic anti-constitutional arch. The people know and the people will punish. God has us well and you most well, so you can find yourself where you deserve one day, namely the defendant's stand.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u71	Thank you. From the Communist Party of Greece, his parliamentary representative Mr. Athanasios Pafilis has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Paphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u72	Since we caught the calendar, on Monday it's May 9, and it's the anniversary of the anti-fascist victory of the peoples, the collapse of fascism, Nazism, the most darkening theory and politics that humanity has ever known. As far as the debate on unconstitutionalism is concerned, there are problems of unconstitutionality. However, because it is important for those who are following the House to see the hypocrisy hidden around the issues of unconstitutionalism, who finally decides whether or not an anti-constitutional provision is unconstitutional? One Member of Parliament is decided by the hundreds of fifty, the majority in the House. Is the donkey flying? He's flying. They decide and it's over. In fact, he's a propeller and he's a helicopter! Secondly, this debate that is taking place today and always, I do not want to say that it is reaching the limits of ridiculousness, but the limits of tragedy for the people. What did we have all this time? Mr. Lappas said that he dug his pit after all. He says that a constitutionalist-- what did you call him? - says that the election and the upturn each time unconstitutionalism weakens the Constitution itself. But, well, where do we live? That's what you've been doing for years, isn't it? New Democracy used to be a government, PASOK each time talked about unconstitutionalism. Things have changed again. With SYRIZA, all the time in every bill we were fed up with discussing the issue of unconstitutionalism. Now, what's changed? Because people do it? So this game you play every time is to make fun of the Greek people, and there needs to be a debate on the substance. The third issue is the sustainability criteria. It says that on the basis of the sustainability criterion, pensions may be cut. Isn't that right, Mr. Lappa?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u73	Don't ask a question, or he'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u74	It's a rhetorical question, because we've known each other for forty years. So I'm saying something about the Minister. Who determines the sustainability criterion? How much have you eaten from the funds? About 100 billion. Give it back, see if it's sustainable or not. What does sustainability mean? Does it mean that 350 euros and 400 euros are the level of decent living? And you're not all ashamed to say that! Start from here, from you. Who determines the level of decent living at 350 euros? So give back the 100 billion that they have taken, from those who took it, to discuss in capitalism whether or not the insurance system is viable. To conclude, therefore, the interpretation of the Constitution is always made by the anti-popular governments, both from today and from the previous ones, when they are about to piss the world off when they are going to follow anti-popular policy. And so is the constitution, 'tidy', so that every government can use it every time at the expense of the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr Pafile, and for the brief time. Mr Spyridon Dannelis has the floor from the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. I fear that the recent case law of the Council of State on the cutbacks of 1.8 billion, without being accompanied by a proportionate study, is predicating a short life in the bill under discussion. And, of course, the proportionate study that has been prepared since the draft is rather a projection of the bill and not, of course, a provision on the basis of which we should have the provisions of the bill to be discussed. Apart from that, of course, the unequivocal and unequal treatment of Greek citizens with regard to the provision of services or the obligation to pay contributions is an issue of unconstitutionality. I don't want to add anything that's already been heard. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u77	Thank you too, Mr. Dannelly. We're moving on. On behalf of the Independent Greeks Mr Papachristopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u78	I apologise even for the one minute I will consume, for reasons of purely procedural reasons - not my own fault - a few Members who would like to talk about a very serious bill, such as insurance and taxation. But I have to say: I am one of those who have no hesitation when I see that someone who is against me is doing something right, to point it out. I remember Mr Mitsotakis who said something about his party's finances. I found it positive. I found a positive reaction to Urban and so on. Why am I saying that? Opposition for the opposition is an inalienable right for anyone to do it. He must know, however, that he undermines his credibility. Impressiveness or I don't know what else it owns a few Members. We know that the rules of parliamentary democracy are specific. Yes, 50 percent of a Member of Parliament decides. What to do! If you want, we change it, we do something else, we decide one or two. I would also like to remind you that the Opposition very passionately, since it stopped saying that insurance and tax are one-sided, has now found unconstitutionality. It's the tenth or twelfth time I've heard the exact same argument. I remember with what perseverance the media bill was saying with what rabies was unconstitutional. I don't want to list them now. I want to conclude by saying this: it is historic that the hours we live in. We know very well, we have this opinion, that we must take the decision in his hands and go tomorrow to negotiate. We live historical times and this is not the time for such procedural terminology. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u79	And we, Mr. Papachristopoulos. We close with the Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, Mr Georgios and Mr Dimitrios Karras. Here, Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Before I raise the objection of unconstitutionalism, I would like to point out that today's debate in this House is of importance and importance for the Greek people greater and from a constitutional review. If we were to discuss a constitutional review, there would be no such anxieties to Greek workers, Greeks insured for their lives and their fate. Therefore, as you rightly have rightly noted, Mr President, the Greek people are following our debate from Parliament's television channel. Mr Loverdou's objection has raised the heart of the legislation that is being introduced today, because in relation to health insurance, the whole philosophy of the insurance system is now called into question, which we must apply, to observe in Greece, but also to deliver those labors and sacrifices, to which the entire Greek people are subject, so that he considers that he can have obtained a decent pension, a decent care, and especially at the end of his life, where health and medical care needs are increased. The way in which Article 41 is introduced today says that health care contributions will be proportional. But that's where something else goes wrong. It makes a tax burden, Mr President, in the sense that it refers to the insured person's tax and financial capacity rather than to the remuneration which he must have paid during his working life, whether himself or his employer. In this sense, we consider the provision to be unconstitutional and for the additional reason that it is in breach of even Article 78 of the Constitution and not just the articles mentioned by my colleague in his objection. In particular, we must not lose sight of the fact that the principle of proportionality applies in Greece, which we also have constitutionally guaranteed. In fact, in the revision introduced by all parties, it was a great step forward in democracy. The principle of proportionality is already affected by these provisions of this draft law for the reason I have said, that we now have taxation for the purposes of insurance. I would also like to say something else because I have listened very carefully to my fellow parliamentary representatives who spoke earlier. They all referred to the case-law of the Court of Auditors and the Council of State. I have to say something else. The House today has primary power when it talks about objections of constitutionality or otherwise, and it must decide. Therefore, what is being put by a majority, as Mr Pafilis said, must make Parliament and the majority Members particularly careful in this vote that they are required to give to a bill, which we do not hope will deliver and maintain the insurance system in place. On the contrary, it creates risks of shock very soon, which may also lead to explosions. I shall therefore conclude, Mr President, by saying that. The core of the legislation itself, which is imported, suffers from unconstitutionalism. Of course, I agree with the proposal for unconstitutionalism, but I would like, along the way, to ask all my fellow Members and all the groups to stand up to it, because the legislation which comes from and which either connects it or not, the fiscal capacity and ability of the Greeks to contribute, at the end, also to the principles of social security. In this sense, we are voting in favour of the proposal for unconstitutionalism, Mr President, and withholding otherwise for the other provisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister now has the floor for five minutes to answer all the objections he has heard from colleagues in the opposition. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u82	Mr President, those of the Vice-Presidents who have said that we are talking about a provision on the heart of the bill are right. Indeed, it is about the application of the rules of equivalence to all Greek citizens: the obligation to contribute 20% of the actual income to the main pension, 7% to the actual health income. So, from the moment on, I wonder why this objection of unconstitutionality has been raised, only for those who, in the opinion of those who have put it, are overreacting, that is to say, only for the free traders. It will pay 7% of its actual income and the wage earner with 5 000 euros will have the same charge, according to the logic of the objection, even though he will receive a fee, which will be the same as the wage earner who has 500 euros. What does our Constitution say about this? Our Constitution doesn't say we're all in charge. It says in Article 4(5), which concerns our share of public burdens, that we are being burdened by our powers. And that makes sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u83	That's what it says about taxation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u84	No, he doesn't say it at all about taxation. It's a general provision. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Read your Constitution better. It's not the only layout. In Article 25(4), the Constitution imposes on everyone the obligation of social solidarity, in view of another principle in Article 106(1) of social peace. Watch out now, because these constitutionals may not have too much... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u85	Calm down! I remind you it's 11.15 ́. We should've started at 10:15 and had half the special speakers already spoken. Here you go, Minister, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u86	Is this the unconstitutionality?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u87	Okay, I didn't say you were wrong, Mr. Loverdo. I said don't waste any more time. Here, Minister, your time will be kept.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u88	What is the logic of the Constitution? If the National Health System had to be financed by 7% of the poor man, who has 500 euros a month of income, it could not be financed, which is why the social solidarity of the person who gets the 5,000 euros is needed. Indeed, he, too, with the EUR 5,000 and with the EUR 500 a bed, will hold on to the ESS, the same drugs will take, but they do not have the same opportunity to finance it. That is why the richest should contribute, depending on its powers, so that there is the public good of health for all. I therefore think that the first objection, the only one lodged, has no basis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u89	Two have been tabled, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u90	I'll talk about the overweight charge at the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u91	Mr. Loverdo, please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u92	What will happen, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u93	Mr. Loverdo, please very much. Finally!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u94	To read the two that we have tabled, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u95	Mr. Loverdo, whatever he wants to read and what he wants to answer. Here you go, Minister, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u96	I am referring, for the reason that they were raised - although not the objection - in the complaints made by Mr Fortsakis. I say that it is not about the objection, because there was no objection of anti-constitutionalism, nor about the involvement of civil servants in the single body, nor about the issue of proportional study. However, because they were put forward, they must be answered. The first thing I want to say is that I do not know if you have reached agreement with your party when you have supported this view.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u97	Tell me about the issue of unconstitutionalism!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u98	Because the New Democracy view is in favour of a single agency of employees, including the public and private sectors.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u99	But the objection didn't come up with that!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u100	If the New Democracy's view has changed, its rapporteurs should tell us. If it has not changed, how do you support an objection of unconstitutionality affecting your proposal? This is deeply inconsistency, which cannot be tolerated in the political speech. Furthermore, I would like to tell you that there is no reference to the Constitution which requires that civil servants be treated differently from private employees when it comes to pensions. The rule of equality that we want to impose on everyone has no constitutional obstacle. What is enshrined in Article 98 is a special jurisdiction of the Court of Auditors on matters relating to pensions of civil servants, which is explicitly maintained in the draft law. Third, proportionate studies. I would like my colleagues to be in the House at least as careful as they are in the courts and to read the decisions well. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall It is not necessary, says the Council of State, contrary to my view, to table a proportionate study. What does the Plenary Assembly of the Council of State say 2287/2015? A specific, thorough and scientifically substantiated study is needed on the necessity and appropriateness of the measures introduced. Another proportional study, which essentially introduces screenings for the future, based on what? The evidence the politicians give her. That's why Mr. Brutsis gave the Accounting Authority a bankruptcy system of 2014 that was viable. What does the Council of State request, on the contrary? Studies on the availability and necessity of measures and the possibility of alternative other measures. Did they testify? You did not notice, Mr rapporteur, that they are dated October and November 2015, the specific economic studies we have submitted, which fulfil exactly this obligation. The proportional study could not have been submitted earlier, for the simple reason that it had to incorporate all the provisions of the bill, which were formed after the negotiation. To conclude, there is no excessive burden, given that the excess or not has to be weighed precisely in relation to the need to maintain the viability of the system. I have also said that at the moment the contributions are high, because the income base is very low because of the crisis. One quarter of the employees are unemployed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u101	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u102	Half of the self-employed cannot pay their contributions. This forces us to keep contributions at this level if we do not want to reduce pensions. If you do not want to be hypocritical and demagogues, please tell us to reduce pensions and reduce contributions. Otherwise, you do not legitimately raise this argument.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u103	In terms of unconstitutionalism, please, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u104	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u105	Because what you're saying is on the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u106	No, it's not, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u107	Yeah, but it's eight minutes to talk, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u108	The arguments put forward relate to the principle of proportionality and to whether these measures are appropriate and valid. These cannot be dealt with and answered legally without reference to the real circumstances. So prophecies in sin, gentlemen. What's bothering you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u109	For the...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u110	The rules of equivalency that our system imposes. You wanted the old customer arrangements of the patronage that nuisanced the old system and you're hypocrites...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u111	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u112	...not accepting that for the first time we are actually applying what our Constitution requires.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate under Rule 100(2) of the Rules of Procedure on the issue of unconstitutionalism, which was put at the initiative of the PASOK - DIMAR, through the parliamentary representative Mr Loverdou. Accepting the objection of unconstitutionality, please rise. [[Responding to the objection]] It is clear that the number of Members required by the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure has not been raised. The objection of unconstitutionality is therefore rejected. We are now continuing, in accordance with the agenda. As far as I understand it, most of you want the Minister to speak first, with the clarification I made that the rapporteurs then begin. I repeat, so that there is no misunderstanding. And for those colleagues who want to register, the electronic registration will begin as soon as Mr Constantine Barkas comes to the party from SYRIZA and will close as soon as the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr. Economou, comes out of Step. Minister, please, you have the floor for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking about a reform - a breakthrough which the place has had for decades and which, unfortunately, has not been discussed in Parliament in the way it suits a similar national subject. The Prime Minister had called for national dialogue last autumn. We had tried to secure the terms of a dialogue by calling on the scientific community of the country to participate in the committee to make proposals since August, calling on this panel of experts, who later recognised their scientific authority by the fact that they were invited by opposition parties to participate in their own committees to promote proposals for insurance. Unfortunately, we have faced this proposal for a dialogue based on hypocrisy and demagogy. We heard that SYRIZA is responsible for the collapse of the insurance system, while by 2015, the system was fully balanced and sustainable. I will speak with figures because, as a politician who is not in our area, 'do not trust politicians who do not tell you their numbers'. And I am happy that as far as the first question is concerned, if the system was viable in 2015, you have already received an answer from a professor and former Minister, who I did not invite him, but called him the Potami, Mr. Yannitsis. What did Mr. Yannis say at the board hearing? "The deficits covered by state funding between 2000 and 2009 represented 83% of the debt growth." What happened between 2010 and 2014, during the New Democracy - PASOK government? These deficits now accounted for 405,5% of the debt growth. The deficit of the insurance system, which was 6% in 2010, became 9% compared to gross national product in 2014. This was not only because the gross national product was reduced. In 2014 pension expenditure increased by two billion or 7% compared to 2007 in the last year of growth. All this coincided with eleven pension cuts, which made pensioners poorer by 40% and which led to the average pension from EUR 1 200 to EUR 800. How did you manage this miracle? How did you manage to dismantle public finances and launch public debt and break the pensioner? For the simple reason that your pseudo-reforms did not raise the essence of the insurance system problem, which is the existence of anarchy of arrangements that did not allow for the matching of contributions - benefits. This way, they've made system deficits big. Our reform has two basic features: first, isology, the one that has been disturbed and has led to objections of unconstitutionality. Not all, not only will employees have the same cost of 20% for their main pension and 7% for their health, on their actual income. And what difference is allowed by the principle of equality, the application of equal rules for all? Only where there is a need to protect the weakest. That is why we have the national pension. For this reason, we have the special insurance treatment of farmers, because agricultural income is known to be less than urban. This system remains a redistributive public system, not a capitalist system, contrary to the general trend of all reforms in Europe over the last few years, which precisely degrade this social character, which constituted the heart of the European social model, and for the first time a guarantee of all pension benefits by the State, the guarantee obligation imposed by Article 22(5) of the Constitution. We have been accused of abolishing the tripartite funding. The tripartite financing provided a grant of 1% of gross national product, according to the Reppa Act 3029/2002. We provide for the national pension to be financed by taxation, because in fact the tax is the basic social redistribution tool, the financing of 6.5% of gross national product. And although we anticipate much greater than in the past State involvement in the financing of the system, precisely in order to strengthen social solidarity. We are reducing the deficits just as we promised, not even to the least, by the reduction of pensions, but by the architecture of the new system, because we are dealing precisely with the causes of deficits: the anarchy of the arrangements, the mismatch of contributions and benefits. Indeed, we are intervening and adjusting contributions that do not have these characteristics. The Equity Fund, for example, of civil servants, who, as you know, do not give pension but dividends, that is, theoretically, what the civil servants have contributed, had the following characteristics: EUR 962 was the annual deposit by the civil servants a year, EUR 1,932 was the dividend. How has that been done, as long as it had only EUR 49 000 000 to be able to pay these amounts? Firstly, because it was originally financed by a social resource, which was not abolished by our own law, but by your own n.4254/2014. Second, because he just accumulated deficits. In 2015 we have to bring 89,000 euros a year and a corresponding figure in 2016 to cover these deficits. Precisely because there was no balance of contributions - benefits. Moreover, 40% of the shareholders of the Equity Fund were people aged forty-five years, who received the same dividend as the others, without apparently having contributed similar amounts. Now what do we do? We fully respect the contributions that have been made. What civil servants have given from their wages, no one can limit them. In fact, we are counting on a return rate similar to that of the Bank of Greece for these contributions. But we are also adjusting the dividend because it is not possible for the state budget, that is to say, the worker, the farmer, who is not a civil servant to subsidise the dividends of the latter. Another basic principle of the bill is the distinction of pre-emptive and insurance benefits. CSCE: Have you voted or not, gentlemen of the New Democracy, the River and the PASOK, the gradual abolition of the CSCE with L.4336/2015?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u115	Of course not!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u116	Of course! Why now are you protesting? The answer is simple. Because you're hypocrites!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u117	On the eve of the country in Europe, we voted. Now you invoke the New Democracy? The country has defended not you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u118	Easy, easy! Mr. Brutsi, you'll have a chance to talk about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u119	Instead of abolishing the CSR and not putting anything in place, as you have done with the successive abolitions and reductions in benefits, we replace the CSR with national pensions and in a way that provides more complete protection. Firstly, because the ESS was given with control of resources, with income control, with income criteria, as the International Monetary Fund wants, and with certain voices in this House, pensions should also be given. While we are giving it to everyone and giving it to them in such a way that, together with the rates of replacement that protect low incomes, we guarantee pensioners against poverty and social exclusion. It is precisely these principles of equality - the same rules for all - that serves them and the organisational structure that we have proposed, namely a single body with all Greeks insured there. I hear proposals from the New Democracy and the PASOK for three funds. Since the principles of equality were being served, one would say that this organizational pattern does not matter whether it is one or three. Indeed, they could be three. But I ask you: the scientists - free professionals, who are insured today in the EBRD, have told us that they are refusing to join the OAU, with the traders.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u120	Yours refuses.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u121	How, then, could a single fund of self-employed people, when most of the scientists deny this version?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u122	They tell you no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u123	How could the OGA have had an autonomous presence when you know that 90.6% of the OGA revenue comes from the state budget and only 9.4% of the farmers' contributions? So why suggest things that you know that either the interested parties themselves reject or by their nature would be non-viable, still-born?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u124	Mr. Tsipras said that. He's committed to the OGA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u125	Mr. Economou, you will speak. Keep notes. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u126	Because you're hypocritical and demagogues. We have fully respected our commitments to pensioners. No main pension will be reduced. We do anticipate a temporary suspension of payment - not a cut - which will last until 2018 for very high pensions, of those that total more than EUR 3 000 as a cumulation of more pensions or of EUR 2 000 as an individual pension. There couldn't be anything different while we're dealing with the explosive deficits I described earlier. Think. Indeed, for 2016 we are reducing pension expenditure by 1% of gross national product. But do you remember how much I told you the deficits were? It's 9% of GDP. Even if this forecast for a 1% reduction was not in the Memorandum, we could not tolerate deficits of 9%. There are no social security systems that can survive with such large deficits. However, we also wanted to ensure that the usual victims, those who had suffered the eleven reductions and why they were horizontal and unfair again. They were not concerned, they were not relevant to the contributions they had paid. It was simply imposed on the basis of the amount of the pension. Indeed, there may have been people in the so-called noble funds, which fatherhood had given special arrangements, within your old, client system, special arrangements and joys. However, they could also be related to other people who had been vaccinated by their retirement, who worked for forty and forty - five and fifty years. We, because we want the equality rules that we apply not only to social classes, but also to apply intergenerationally, for the first time we apply the same rules for pension calculation for both the past and the future. Old pensions and subsidiary and principals will be recalculated so that by the maturity of the system in five, ten years, all pensioners will be at a speed, not like in the past that the political system, which did not want to assume its responsibilities, sent the account in the future and were insured under another regime before 1993, after 1993, before 2011, after 2011, before 2015, after 2015, after 2015. As far as subsidiary services are concerned, the last reduction you made to ancillary services in partial implementation of the zero deficit clause was 5.2% in 2014. If we applied the zero deficit clause, having to deal with the deficit you inherited us - 869 million, ladies and gentlemen - of the subsidiary funds, we should reduce all supplementary pensions by 26%. Instead, with the sustainability clause that we agreed in July, we can cover these deficits using the instrument of relative increase in contributions and the tool of using the reserves, which you had not negotiated and had not received. The adjustment of the subsidiary is therefore less than 10% of the current pensioners, namely 7.5% - two hundred and one thousand pensioners - and instead of covering 869 million of the deficit, all from this adjustment, only 300 million will be charged to 7.5% of the relatively wealthiest pensioners. With regard to disability pensions: no disability pension is affected. We have not introduced new rules on disability pensions. Just because we faced an anarchist system of arrangements, we have maintained in force all existing regulations on disability pensions until we replace them, in 2016, on the basis of a Commission in which people with disabilities will participate, the ESDC and other representatives of disabled people. I ask you again about your objection to increasing contributions: what would you like us to do? Can we cut the pensions? You tell us, because if you don't tell us, you are - as I said before - demagogues and hypocrites. For young people, now, I have repeatedly said that our system gives us better pensions and less contributions for those with an income of less than EUR 1,000. Do you know how many of them are? 87% of employees, 90% of self-employed, 99.4% of farmers. Ladies and gentlemen of PASOK and New Democracy, did you hear these numbers? In the thirteenth quarter of the most prosperous Greeks - the Greeks, that is, the Greeks, who are today considered prosperous because of the policy of poverty that you have implemented for four years - are the Greeks who have only got EUR 1,000 and over. There you have become the country, to be viewed as prosperous, on the basis of the international statistics considered by those belonging to the highest 10% of the population, those who have EUR 1,000 or more. We, therefore, provide more complete protection for 90% of the population. The rates for the replacement of the new system are 98% for income up to EUR 750, 85% for income up to EUR 1,000, even if we do not calculate the subsidiary. It is therefore better for everyone, for small incomes, for short periods of insurance, not just better than L.3863/2010 and n. 3865/2010 but even better than Law 3092/2002 (Reppa), a law that had been passed when our gross domestic product, the wealth of the country, was much greater than today's. Even for the fifteen years of insurance, even for an average of only EUR 500, the new system provides a pension of EUR 403, which will be much higher than the current IKA pension, which, due to the reductions in the minimum wage, is now EUR 392.7.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u127	You did it so much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u128	The impoverishment and application of the laws of the labour market four years ago. We are overthrowing these policies.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u129	Minister, don't answer because I won't leave you more than two minutes further.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u130	Just a minute and I'll finish. The contributions I have said before, because they should temporarily remain at this level.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u131	Mr. Catalan, calm down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u132	But he did it, his government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u133	I'll talk to you later. Mr Pafilis will tell you in his speech, your rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u134	Just to have comparison measures and to hear the figures: the contributions for the main pension in Greece are 20%, in Spain it is 28.3%, in the Czech Republic it is 28%, in Slovakia it is 27%, in Slovenia it is 24.4%, in Austria it is 23%. For freelance professionals in particular, contributions range from 22% in France to 33.15% in Slovakia. It is true that if we take account of supplementary pensions and health, the burden on the selfemployed is 38%, as is the case with employees. Don't forget that. We are actually applying the rules that have been in force so far for employees, so that these standard balances are no longer the only ones that draw the burdens of the system. I have repeatedly called on the disciplines of scientists to tell us whether they would like there to be a professional fund that would take the weight of supplementary pension and health so that this 38% would be limited to 27%. I did not, however, have any such proposal from the disciplines of scientists, despite the repeated invitation to dialogue I have addressed to them. To conclude, our system brings us an incision to insurance, an incision that had taken place for decades and that the old political system, precisely because of hypocrisy, demagoguery, but above all its persistence in individual, unregulated and clientele arrangements, could not attempt. Now's the time. I have not been able to talk about many things in the bill, about the help we give to the poorest and the weakest, about the blocks that will pay 6.5% of the insurance burden and not about what they have paid so far for the overtime allowance, the extension of the benefits to the beneficiaries and those who have a cohabitation agreement. So I call on you, even at the last moment, to deal with this issue as it should, as a national issue that needs to be discussed without the burden of demagogy and hypocrisy, so that we can find a solution for the future, not only for pensioners and current workers, but also for our children.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u135	I call on the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Konstantinos Barkas, to step up the electronic registration system. However, I would like to be honest with my colleagues and say that for those who will be registered from this moment, in addition to the forty-five parties given for the three cycles, the chances of speaking are infinite. I've been saying that since today, so the nipples won't start tomorrow. You have the right, however, to register and I wish there was some time to speak. Mr. Barka, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u136	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to describe the draft legislation under discussion as the 'Single Social Security System - Pensions reform - Income taxation and gambling arrangements and other provisions' as a national issue, as it concerns all those living in our country regardless of political beliefs, socio-economic situation, religion and sex. It is a national issue, because it affects the present and the future of all of us. That's why they don't fit micro-party purposes, populism and demagogy. Instead, we need responsibility and maturity to regain the credibility of the Greek insurance system. Today the insurance system is in a marginal state and that is an objective truth. In this situation, however, we have not arrived at random. We have arrived because of political choices of old bipartisanism. May I remind you of the gambling of the insurance funds on the Stock Exchange in the late 1990s? May I remind you of the structured bonds case? May I remind you of the 2012 destructive PSI, where 12 billion Greek taxpayers were wings? That's the reality. The old political forces, New Democracy and PASOK, ignored the trouble and sweat of the citizens who consistently paid their insurance contributions in order to maintain party armies, guilds and client networks. Indeed, some colleagues even today have not only made self-criticism about crimes in the past, but are pretending to be defenders of social security. In essence, they are not interested in social state and social security. They only seek to extinguish all social protection to strengthen private insurance companies. The New Democracy said something, which continues to say today, that this agreement leads to a one-way path to insurance, to the one-way path to the complete reduction of supplementary pensions. He argued during the election period, in September, that changes in insurance will lead, whatever the government - he said at that time - to cuts in pensions, which will certainly equal one pension per year. That was what he told us at the time and presented them to us as an inevitable fate, as if it did not matter, as they said then, who would be government. Of course, it makes sense to think that way. This is the way they have learned and learned to make a policy, without second thought of the recipes proposed by the International Monetary Fund. It is clear, therefore, that the New Democracy has clearly chosen an ideological and political camp. It is the camp of extremist neoliberalism, of the unconscious market and of the economic war of all against all. Of course that is her right, but as is our right, but at the same time we must do everything in our power to ensure that this policy is defeated once and for all, not only in Greece, but also in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill was not an easy case. The Greek Government fought hard during the negotiation with the lenders. I'll report to you the following: The government managed to protect the main pensions completely, while creditors required 30% cuts in all key pensions. The government managed to protect all pensions, while creditors required cuts in supplementary pensions of EUR 800 million and the application of the zero deficit clause agreed by the New Democracy and the PASOK. Ladies and gentlemen, it will not be us who make the twelfth horizontal reduction in pensions. The government fully protected child benefit, disability pensions and disability benefits, while creditors demanded the abolition of child benefits and large reductions in disability pensions and allowances. The plenary is therefore entering today a bill that is already in open court from Genarus. Over the last few days, various media have said that we are supposed to have chosen surprise. And one wonders: Really, how courage can one have? There has never been a reform that has been so extensively debated in recent years. This is a draft law which has had the opportunity to draw up proposals or improvements, which, as far as possible, were accepted and incorporated into the text of the bill, because when we talk about dialogue, we mean it and do so. We're not playing hideout with society. This draft law of the Government is a radical part of both the organization and the functioning of social security in our country, as it is based on the principles of equality and social justice: Equality, because it is the first time that similar rules are laid down for everyone, whether old or newly insured, whether they are private workers or public sector workers, without client-private practices and without discrimination. Social justice, because through the proposed regulation, the government is alleviating social inequalities, offering greater help to the weak. Every citizen will bring his or her strength, which means most, less, those with fewer. So, while remaining faithful to respecting our principles, we will put in place a public, universal and redistributive insurance system, with uniform, equal rules for all, with respect for every citizen of our country. For us, strengthening the welfare state is our basic orientation and pursuit. We support the weaker social groups at the heart of our policy. For us, redistribution is an element of social justice and ensures social cohesion and development. At the same time, with this bill, we have a clear orientation: We aim to provide sustainability in an insurance system that is on the verge of collapse, to restore the confidence of the state-owned and its credibility, to guarantee health care and dignity pensions for all, to apply fair taxation to all our fellow citizens, as the proposed draft law is integrated and fiscal provisions. Subsequently, I will summarise some of the arrangements that are coming to change the landscape radically, supporting the weaker social groups. First of all, I would like to stress that the main pillar of the reform is the provision of a single single social security system, in which the single social security institution is set up. Of course, the necessary rules are laid down for the harmonisation of contributions and benefits, both among young and old insured persons, as they have been distinguished by the current insurance regulations and from those from the individual funds and in such a way as to minimise any injustice caused by the adjustment to the new situation. So the social security system is actually being simplified. Rules are laid down, with a redistributive character, but the long-term viability of the insurance system is ensured. The new institution of the national pension is one of the most important arrangements for the new insurance system. It is introduced by this bill for the first time in order to tackle poverty and social exclusion. National pensions shall be financed directly from the State budget. This means that no citizen will be left without income anymore. The national pension is not dependent on the amount of the contributions paid by the insured person, nor on the amount of the remuneration during his working life. National pensions, however, also stand as an impoverishment in poverty for another reason, because it is equivalent to a growth clause, and indeed only on an upward path. This means that in a growth economy, the amount of national pensions will rise as GDP increases. But at his lower threshold, he's locked the present one. The amount of the national pension comes to add the proportional part, with the percentages set at the maximum permitted, which was possible on the basis of the situation of the current Greek economy. In any event, the lowest economic categories of workers are ensured, in full harmony with the requirements of the Constitution. National pensions and pensions are the main pension of insured persons. However, the pensions already paid are also fully protected, because the personal difference for pensioners is introduced so that they are not wronged. The personal difference will remain frozen, netted annually by GDP growth, leading to an increase in the amount of new pensions. The payment of the one-off benefit is also dissociated from the accidental event of the number of applications per year of retirement. Persons shall receive the amount they are entitled to, on the basis of their contributions and as close as possible to them, in order to restore in general the injustice that has already been created. A ceiling of insurers is also laid down for the calculation of the monthly insurance contribution of employees and employers. Of course, for the first time, there is the introduction of the compulsory simultaneous payment of wages, insurance contributions and wage earners' tax through banks, so as to limit the phenomenon of unpaid work which has received appalling proportions in Greece of the crisis. Especially with regard to new free professionals and self-employed scientists, major facilities are provided to enhance their income capacity, which had been reduced by the huge contributions imposed on them regardless of income. In addition, for self-employed scientists, more favourable transitional arrangements are introduced for four years which define discounts depending on income from 5% to 50%. Particularly favourable are the arrangements for persons insured in the OGA. Without insurance reform, the basic pension for the farmer, as we all know, in the next few years would go to zero. Today it's only 172 euros. I repeat that, in ten years' time from today, the farmer's pension would be EUR 0. On the other hand, with the proposal that we will be voting on, we ensure the national pension of EUR 384 plus the compensation part based on the contributions paid, which means that an average today's farmer will receive a normal pension, like all workers. The minimum basis for calculation is 70% of the wage of the unskilled worker, while an increased period of adjustment is provided with the gradual increase in rates for both basic pension and health care. For the first time farmers are treated by the insurance system equally like all other insured persons. The full amount of the national pension will be paid to them and at the same time special attention will be paid to contributions due to the difficult circumstances of their profession. The difficult economic conditions have produced or fed two phenomena which require immediate action to be taken to combat them. We cannot continue to close our eyes to uninsured as much as unpaid work. We are taking the essential initiative to introduce a minimum number of employees per company, which will arise on the basis of specific criteria. And then, if unfair results are obtained, the employer will have the opportunity to question these results. This means that no longer can an employer speculate at the expense of workers who lack their safety. Provisional benefit is also introduced, the solidarity allowance for uninsured overtime. The very strict provisions of Law 4093/2012 that had led to exclusion from the provision of a large number of uninsured overtime are minimised. This way, no one will be left without a minimum income. Even those who are not entitled to a national pension will receive EUR 360 a month. With regard to the tax provisions of the bill, I would like to point out that they are based on the principles of equality and social justice. Equality is now becoming unified for wages and pensions and the tax system is simplified. Social justice, because the proposed provisions will streamline the system on the basis of progressive and fairer taxation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The new proposal on the tax system also takes the family situation as a basis. And we believe that this restores an injustice in recent years, where children have been essentially a tax burden, despite the increased family budget. I would also like to make a reference to the tax-free amendment. The evaluation was judged and it was given that we would not do the favor of throwing society in your own hands, because he knows what the government of New Democracy and PASOK will say. So the tax-free amount is reduced to EUR 1,900 without dependent children. The second case: The tax reduction amounts to EUR 1.950 for a taxpayer with a dependent child, EUR 2 000 for two dependent children and EUR 2.100 for three dependent children and over. We are also duty-free on farmers who have so far been out of your system.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u137	Mr. Barka, slow down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u138	I shall conclude, Mr President. In third countries and in multi-texts, on the basis of our proposal, 61% of taxpayers will pay from now on a lower tax rate. In other cases, from taxpayers without children to two children, the burden on their incomes of up to EUR 22 000 is small and on average does not exceed EUR 100 per year. In conclusion, the proposed draft law and the basic principles it introduces, including social security law, ensure the sustainability of social security institutions in a manner consistent with the constitutional guarantees and provisions of European law. At the same time, tax provisions ensure a fairer taxation for the citizens of our country. We knew from the outset that the responsibility we took is historic and that our path will be undisturbed. It is a road, however, that we will go along with the vast majority of society. And we will have many opposite: the bankrupt media, the headlines of reactionary propaganda, the frustrations of interlocutory. We are opening the way and building a Greece in which there will be social cohesion and solidarity, justice, stability and dignity. With the completion of the evaluation and, therefore, regulation of our country's public debt, it is possible to implement the major changes that our country needs, further strengthening the social state by reducing unemployment, following the path of growth.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u139	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u140	Because this state needs deep sections and rifts within it to make it fair and operational, so that Greece begins to remind a truly European country and not by name, as the previous convicted. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] For we - I conclude, Mr President - have come to these benches to serve visions, ideals and values. I'm optimistic we'll make it. In persuasive times we will take the country out of the deep crisis in the clearing of reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u141	Ladies and gentlemen, now listen to what I'm going to say. I made a calculation. On condition that we respect the time and not the one going to the Step, because it speaks, that he does not care what happens next, today the forty-five Members designated by the parties, the rapporteurs and the special speakers and the parliamentary representatives, all need about ten hours in total. There are two hours left for three - four ministers to speak today. This means that tomorrow, as long as the time is respected, and since we agree that the Members who have been written and reached a hundred - eight percent, as the service informs me - instead of seven minutes speaking for five minutes, a significant number of colleagues will speak tomorrow of those who have signed outside the party list. That is basically what we will respect all times, because when we all eat two or three minutes each, we are lacking time from our next colleague. I'm making the briefing so I don't get to be a bad guy from Stepma. Of course, the rapporteurs and speakers, if they do not have time, will have an extra one and a half minutes. Does the House agree with this?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u142	The House therefore agreed. The briefing's over. I think that tomorrow at least thirty colleagues will speak, and, of course, our leaders - and I am speaking entirely - will not do 50 minutes. Because if they do fifty, what I told you to forget. Mr. Economou, you have the floor. Come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u143	Mr President, we thought that by submitting the draft law to the committee on top - we would have the impression of the insurance - tax which the government would have submitted after several months' pregnancy and discussions. Of course, when we come to plenary today, we see that the list of measures to torture the people is endless. We have new measures today. We are not complete with the cake and this nightmare cocktail for the Greek people. Today comes the tax-free. I fear that, until Sunday at 12 o'clock, other rockets of this kind await us, Ministers. Unnecessary EUR 600 for the first time in Greece. The one who gets 600 euros a month in Greece will be paying tax. Signature Tsipras. Bravo! The philosophical and socially just government! You hit 600 euros a month and bring tax-free. Congratulations! I fear that this will not be your last surprise, but let us comment and see what we have so far. Insurance - tax. I heard an attempt by the Minister - I thought it would be more honest today - to justify unjustified, an attempt to justify the necessity of the bill, an attempt to justify the burden sharing, as it has been predicted. But, Minister, really once again - I will say it - you are inferior to the circumstances. You're not telling the truth. I will paraphrase the classical Greek proverb and say "The liar laughs, but the housekeeper laughs", as the people say. Tell me, why didn't you bring your so-called proportional study so far? Did you have anything to hide? You brought it in yesterday - and you brought it to five - a text. Brutsis very well told you that this text does not fulfil the prerequisites for calling the viewing for the future in 2060 proportionate study. If this text, the promotion, we consider it a proportionate study that you brought it to and from five, it says that with EUR 3 billion the insurance system is sustainable in the country in 2016. Until yesterday, you used to go through and question the proportional study for the end of 2014, which really didn't stay on paper, but it has its real effect on the 2015 budget with the so-called 'alternative pension cut by EUR 300 million', if you remember well. This burden was viewed by the 2014 proportional study with the so-called ‘zero deficit clause’, which the SYRIZA’s people had come out on all panels, on all balconies and poured a hot cry. The 2014 proportional study predicted a 6% reduction in adjuvants. You doubted her. You didn't talk about her. You said there was no. Yesterday you came to the committee, Mr. Katrugale, and said: "Yes, there was a 2014 actuarial, because you must justify that there is a 2016 actuarial. Do you know what the big difference between the two proportionate studies is if we say that the latter is proportionate? It's 2.5 billion euros. Where is the EUR 2.5 billion due, Mr Katrugale, the end-2014 difference by mid-2016? What has been the fact that, in one case, insurance was sustainable, as the 2014 actuarial, and now you say that it will be sustainable? We have a difference that I said. Neither a great earthquake became nor a great theory. Nothing happened to that. One thing happened, we had the government of the gentleman who left a moment ago, Mr. Tsipras. This unfortunate event took place for the country, which burdened pensioners and those insured with the failure of policy with EUR 2.5 billion. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Isn't that right, Minister? There's something you said it was a burden of 9% of GDP. You've been saying a half-time about the 2014 act. To tell you, if that were the case with the forecasts at the time, only EUR 300 million was needed, which you have actually implemented, not you, but your next-door gentleman, Mr Skourletis, as the then Minister for Labour and Social Security. You have implemented, Mr Skourletis, the zero deficit clause and EUR 400 million in 2015 were cut off by the subsidiary. In fact, that's not all happened. You've had a chance, of course, after the election...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u144	That's wrong!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u145	No, Mr. Skourletis, it's not a mistake at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u146	Don't make personal reports because there's a reply. Make general position.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u147	You were changed by Mr Tsipras after the September elections, but the additional EUR 500 million by increasing contributions - for the EEA, of course, for a good purpose - that is, 2% and 6% in the main and subsidiary sectors in both pensions could obviously not be signed because of your conscience. But the next Minister, Mr. Katrugalos, charged EUR 500 million in the last four months of 2015. Aren't these accounts? Haven't you applied them as politicians? But we have heard today that you will replace the zero deficit clause, the demonified clause, Mr Katrugale, with a sustainability clause. That's what you said, isn't it? Tell me something, Mr. Catrugale. I brought you an example. So listen to it again, even though the media have found this original way to protest by hiding your own tragic policies.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u148	The media?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u149	Yes, my Mr. Barca, but today is the deaf day, tomorrow will come the unveiling, tomorrow we'll find out the news. Today we are only heard through the channel of the Parliament. Tomorrow I don't think there's a rolling strike. Let me tell you, Mr. Catrugale, about the sustainability clause. I have given you an example in committee. Put the cutter at 1,300 euros. You said there are now the rich Greeks. EUR 1,300 are mixed supplementary and main pensions. And I brought you an example. What if a pensioner who takes EUR 1,300 is a main pensioner and receives a 300 subsidiary? Are there such examples? There are thousands of them. It shall receive a primary pension of EUR 1,200 and an ancillary EUR 400. Are there such examples? There are thousands of them. They take 1,500 euros or 1,600 euros. You're saying you guarantee at 3,300. From there on? Drop the bird! The pensions are gone! What pensions? You guarantee you won't hurt the gentlemen. So tell me, will you cut off all the subsidiary of this man, the thousands of pensioners who have over 1,300 euros, with a cutter, which is EUR 1,170, as you know very well, because you have incorporated health cover into it? You had to take a little notice of it, it's actually EUR 1,170. So tell me, Mr. Catrugale, this. I challenged you in committee and told you: How will you regulate it for more than EUR 1,400, or EUR 1,500, or EUR 1,600? You can't cut the main pensions. You will cut off all the subsidiary and you have been garnished by 6% of the zero deficit clause! What are you going to tell the world, these endless friends and people, our retired people, who have them in our families, we have them in our friendly and professional environment? What are you gonna tell them? Will you tell them that you will cut the subsidiary because they are rich, because they are rich, why are they favoured because they take EUR 1,200 and EUR 1,300 main pension? We therefore say that the EUR 2.5 billion above the pensioner bill is a result of your tragic policy in these sixteen months. Will you tell me, "But within sixteen months?" Yes, when you're a very loser, you can bring very tragic results! It's a different matter. Is the distribution fair? Laugh! Let's see who's gonna laugh last, especially with you. Is the distribution that you're making through the bill fair? We claim it's not fair at all, Mr. Katrugale. Not fair! I've got a list. And you know why he's not fair? I won't repeat it, I told you. The fifteen myths - to say so - and the fairy tales you have said I will repeat them in another way: Let me tell you: In 2016-2019 how much will you cut to ensure that you too become a good Troika Minister? The ESS is cut by 200m euros in 2016. Next year, in 2017, it will cut 400 million euros. In 2018 it will be cut by EUR 500 million and EUR 859 million in 2019. Is it like this or isn't it? Do you know how much that bill does? Of the low pensioners - out of the three hundred eighty thousand - you are cutting EUR 2.5 billion over a three-year period. And it comes to me and Katrugalos tells me here...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u150	Didn't you vote for that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u151	But don't you feel ashamed to say that? It's a shame to keep saying that. Did New Democracy vote last summer to cut off the CSCE?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u152	Of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u153	To have euros in your pocket, we have voted! You have been left by Lafazanis and by the entire parliamentary group, Mr Katrugale.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u154	The PASOK and the New Democracy voted for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u155	Mr. Economou, please contact colleagues, even if the Minister hears them. Easyer, no need for a voice.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u156	Everyone has a way, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u157	I'm saying this so we can be understood by those who are watching us on television.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u158	I don't want any suggestions. Everyone has a way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u159	That's why we don't vote for it, Mr. Economou, now. That is why we are not voting for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u160	So listen to me when we voted here last year - because you were left by the half of the parliamentary group and you could not guarantee the euro in the pocket of the Greek people - we voted to stay the country in the euro. Do you know what I would do if I were you? I'd say a thank you, and I'd be a little more humble.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u161	Can I thank you for the vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u162	That's it! Leave the rest here. Say thank you and don't be arrogant. It has the signature of Katrugalo - Tsipras the cut of ESS, Mr. Katrugale, whatever you do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u163	And your vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u164	Whatever you do, no matter what you say, you cut it off.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u165	And with your vote!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u166	Do you know what it means? Cut 1 billion each year by low pensioners. Those who take 400 euros will stay with 400 euros. The 250 euros get them out of their pocket. And you do some nice post-graduate tricks and you say "I'm going to go to national pension". What's the national pension?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u167	Tell him to bring a reinstatement order, so we can vote on it! Tell him to bring an order! To end the fun!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u168	Now I don't want to...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u169	He's guiding you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u170	Shame on you! Don't underestimate your speaker!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u171	Mr. Dendias is older in New Democracy. He's guiding you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u172	Easy, ladies! Keep going, Mr. Economou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u173	But what about Mr. Dendias unbelievable? Doesn't he know anything about the national pension?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u174	I wish there were politicians like Treasury, Mr. Barkas! Listen to him, and you're listening. You won't hurt your life. Mr. Katrugale, do you know how many millions the study says will be cut in 2016-2019 by new public pensioners? They're gonna cut 689 million! To be heard by the civil servants who thought that with SYRIZA they were getting comfortable and "all right, good, we're good." They must know that public pensioners will lose in this three-year period of 689 million! From family benefits, the pensioners will lose 44 million. From the widow's pensions, they'll lose 369 million. I'm talking about widow's pensions! From the subsidiary with the sustainability clause - we are talking about disappearing! - cut 1 billion by 2019. Am I wrong the numbers, Mr. Catrugale?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u175	You sum up for each year the same. It's 300 million!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u176	Yes, another income is in 2016, another income in 2017, another in 2018 and another in 2019. What am I supposed to do? Tell me about it! What am I supposed to do? Tell me! Not me, but every pensioner, when you get me out of my pocket 200 million in 2016 and get me another 300 million in 2017 and another 400 million in 2018 and another 400 million in 2019, I will put it all in one account and say that out of the 3.5-4 billion supplementary pensions that the state has to give today, it will be given less than 1 billion. Do you know what that means, Mr. Catrugale? That a billion "plus" Greeks in this country will not take it. But aren't we ashamed to say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u177	"One in oil, one in vinegar" is what you say!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u178	But that is not all you are doing, but you also put 1 billion additional contributions in the form of an additional 250 million for subsidiary contributions. What kind of tragic sandwich is this for people and pensioners? Take 1 billion and put them in 1 billion 250 million to all the insured. Do you cut 133 million from the one-off? And we're going to the dividends that aren't pensions. We've heard a good theory now. He said the package, but he didn't put the wrap. As far as wrapping is concerned, I asked him on the benches 'how much do you finally cut them, Christian?' Because, Mr Katrugale, at the end of June you will give the dividends. You'll give it away! The payout was per month and you've done it every quarter. Still no one knows what he'll get. Do you know what we say on the basis of your announcement? That you'll give them reduced by 35%! Well, did you really find out that the civil servants are not paying their contributions and you are coming to bring the justice by cutting the dividends of civil servants by 832 million in 2016-2019? We're talking about 832 million on dividends. Is the money for dividends you took from the pocket of civil servants, Mr. Katrugale, social policy and a fair burden-sharing?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u179	For the soldiers!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u180	The military with the civil servants will enter the single big pharaonic fund you are preparing. I asked if this bill has the signature of Kammenos, because we didn't see it when it was tabled. Along with the dividends of the EBRD, Air Force, Navy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u181	Now did you see her?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u182	You told me he had it. We hadn't seen Kammen's signature. Do you know why I asked you? Why does Kammenos come out in all the nipples of the country, on the islands and on the islands and says he loves the soldiers and the Greek Army and its officers. And as soon as he took over his office, he said that I would increase the dividends. Others he's signed, gentlemen of the Annells! But I don't see one in here. It's their prospect, anyway. But I'm saying...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u183	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u184	I don't see anyone. He's not even one! There's not one in here! Mr Katrugale, is this the guarding, safeguarding, supporting and increasing dividends of the military when the Equatorial Funds are abolished, are you effectively nullifying their dividends? And unify and integrate the soldiers into the big fund, and you call that equality! Do you know what we call it? Falseness. I'll close here, Mr. President. Because I said it - Mr. Tsipras was here earlier - that you said: 'But some people sit down and suggest three funds. Is it right to say about three funds?' Well, we might call it wrong. Tsipras did not go to Maximus with you and sat next door and you sat down, Mr. Katrugale, and because the farmers had pressed you three months with the blocks, you said, "Come to Maximus" and they came to Maximus' blocks and you said that for five years the OGA remained? Say it? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And you said so, Mr. Catrugale, don't laugh. And Tsipras, the Prime Minister of the country, when he said it a month ago, was he a liar? He said that to mislead the delegations to get out to stop the roadblocks and then he goes there?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u185	That's what he did.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u186	Well, not that kind of thing!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u187	Hey, if that's possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u188	Mr. Economou, close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u189	I shall conclude, Mr President. Mr. Katrugalos and Mr. SYRIZA's good rapporteur, Mr. Barkas, said that New Democracy was talking about private insurance and so on. Mr Katrugale, I told you yesterday in committee - and we have not at all hesitated to say our thoughts and views on insurance - that we are defenders of the professional funds. Because in all the panels I have succeeded and found myself with many of SYRIZA colleagues, when I say professional funds, they fly up and say "you're in favour of private insurance", because that's how you've been given the non paper. I have listened to you, Mr Katrugale, yesterday and said: 'We are in favour'. Will you decide what you're doing? Are you in favour of the professional funds as an alternative that the New Democracy has proposed? If you are in favour, tell the children not to come to the panels and to the TVs and say other things and to understand, first and foremost, that the professional funds are not private insurance; secondly, when you talk about public pensions and a public distribution system you have to explain - Mr Barkas said so, but you do not notice - that he only speaks of the pension scheme of the national pension you say, that is, the one that from EUR 486 when Mr Katrugalos found it, it is now up to 345. Within a year and a half, you drop the national pension. It's the only one you guarantee because of taxation. The other ones, the interpretation Mr. Katrugalos gave,
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u190	Mr. Economou, can you hear me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u191	I'm hanging up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u192	Hang up now!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u193	All right, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u194	Hey, yeah!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u195	I'm hanging up now. The interpretation he gave is false. The State shall not ensure either the single fund, the dividends or the AS. That's where a pension disappearance clause works! We are not going to vote on such a tragic bill, which impoverishes the Greek pensioner!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u196	The reason is the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Ilias Panagiotaros. Here, Mr. Panayotare, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin, I would like to say that he's uploaded the Internet that the Minister plays Tetris on his computer. I don't know. Check this out. With everything we heard from the Prime Minister yesterday in his speech to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, by the SYRIZA rapporteur today, but also from the SYRIZA executives in general, you would think that a draft redemption bill for Greek society is coming. Then, since it is so, in a few days that will be the end of the month, you can go to a National Bank or to another pension bank, sit down to listen to Greek citizens' comments when they get what they get from the so-called pension or what is left of it. And I'd like to say one more thing. Even until yesterday, SYRIZA executives in the various panels said - or rather the day before yesterday, because yesterday it was strike - that growth would come in the second half of '16, that is in about twenty days. Let's see you, because you've lost both the days with the lies and everything you're saying. Hearing of course the rapporteur of the New Democracy before, you would think that this party came from abroad, came out of nowhere, has not ruled this place for decades. Let us remind them that on 14 August the New Democracy, which voted together with PASOK, the third memorandum of SYRIZA, also voted for all these measures which are now coming, because they were written in the third memorandum and in the medium and the previous ones, but also in what they are now coming. In order not to sell a fairy tale that everything was going well up ahead, and now the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict, this truly devastating conflict, has made roses. Yeah, that's right. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Mrs CRISTOULOPOULOU, takes over the President's seat.]] One more comment - you see, with what is happening in our country, only comments we can make - about the strike of the ESA, this not Marxist, but in the euros, because if we remember any memoranda and difficult measures, and with the previous governments, the ESA did a strike, and the world had no knowledge of anything at all, but a card. However, they all have their explanation, when the tens of millions of euros of euros were made public, sponsorships from the banks to the various media - sponsorships, we say - so that they do not talk about the ruthless things taking place at the expense of the Greek people, regardless of who is a government, because the bankers of this country are bankers. The foundation of all kinds of activity in the society of an organised state is the existence of a stable, well-established and comprehensive insurance system, an insurance system covering horizontally all production classes in the primary and secondary sectors of production, in the private and public sectors, in trade, in the free professions, by laying down regulations aimed at creating all the conditions to ensure the present and future of all workers and by achieving the objectives of production, development, achieving self-sufficiency and ultimately the well-being of the state and its citizens. Just what you bring with that bill. The government - fully subdued to the guilds of lenders, like the previous one, and the orders of the memoranda - is going to dismantle any remaining social structure, accepting further billions of additional measures to the detriment of the Greek people. It should be noted, of course, that in the Court of Auditors' opinion on this insurance bill, which is not binding, but that the Government had to take it seriously, there were considerable objections of non-constitutionality. The most important thing? There are no proportionate studies and what the Minister has brought to us and, in part, they are not saying anything at all. Secondly, the Court of Auditors says that it is not constitutionally acceptable to incorporate in an insurer of public and private employees. The Government ignores these two main parameters of the Court of Auditors' view and promotes measures not to rescue the insurance system, but to remove, under the terms of the third Memorandum, EUR 1.8 billion for a start from the incomes of pensioners and return them to creditors for the repayment of the public debt. As for the proportionate study supposedly brought by the Minister, the main insurance funds deficit IKA - OSH will increase in 2019, instead of decreasing. In other words, despite the dramatic cuts in wages and pensions, increases in contributions that will run over the period 16'-19', the deficit of the Funds will rise. Based on the Ministry of Labour's forecasts, the only thing that the forthcoming reform will achieve will be this: not to increase the deficit even further and to reach EUR 17.7 billion, but to cut the deficit of EUR 1 billion. But the impressive thing is that the potential to prevent an uncontrolled increase in the deficit, by EUR 1 billion, will be made thanks to measures that go far beyond EUR 1 billion. That is again damaged and lost! However, the Ministry noted that it did not provide data on the deficit of the subsidiary funds as well, for which they have already declared a payment stop. And, of course, the measures don't come out, no matter how crisp they are the introduction to the Ministry's proportional study. This bill comes exclusively at the request of the IMF creditors, which has so far made two tragic mistakes that have cost the lives of tens of thousands of Greek citizens and everything else that has happened, but which is why nothing is wrong. They just said, "I'm sorry, wrong" and continue their same ethnic policy. The International Monetary Fund itself has continued for many years now hated politicians and government officials to constantly take loans to buy overcompensated weapons or to do large-scale public works and all of them over-costed - so that in the end we would have to fall into its arms to have the totalitarian blow. The members of the International Monetary Fund themselves, Mr Rumeliotis - a member of the International Monetary Fund - were - saying and saying that the memorandum is illegal and void as a product of extortion. Since 2008, in the hidden agenda of the International Monetary Fund, there has been what Mr Provopoulou revealed and warned about 800% of total debt as a percentage of GDP, a total of the same debt, the state, the banks, everyone. The International Monetary Fund itself always states that this debt is not sustainable and therefore all these measures that you bring do not have any sense at all. The American foreign policy body - because this is about the International Monetary Fund and nothing else - has two measures and two weights. In the case of Ukraine, while its loans were not repaid, they gave it more, because it now suits them geostrategically and geopolitically. In the case of Greece, we have a knife in the bone, not to mention anything else. You can see this, of course, with the speech of the President of the United States, Obama, when last year at West Point, the corresponding School of Hope, he spoke in a word that after World War II America had the wisdom to establish organisations and institutes such as NATO, the United Nations, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, in order to have a multiplier of power, and the United States alone and of course for no Greek or no other people's salvation. Nevertheless, the International Monetary Fund insists on the measures it brings here. And you, the Left Government, with great pleasure in the end, are showing that you are accepting these measures and trying with various excuses to tell us things. It is also not just the International Monetary Fund. The rest of the "quartet" are as well as their local stains. We are suddenly seeing one of the architects of this country's destruction, Mr Stournara, who until first you found him, but now you accept everything, give us instructions on how to get out of the crisis, a crisis in which he has played an important role as minister and as bank commander over the years and has completely destroyed us. We see - I repeat - the hypocrisy of the New Democracy and PASOK, who think that forty years some others have been ruling and not them, and that all is due to the last sixteen months. Yes, over the last sixteen months, they have become orgy, disgusting because of the inability of SYRIZA - ANEL coexistence. But that's not enough on its own. What have you done for six years now with the three Memorandums, in the medium term, which you have all voted on here together and you have absolutely no excuse, because each memorandum is a continuation of the previous memorandum? Since 2008 244,712 businesses have been lost, minus 29%. Private workers decreased from 2,77 million to 1,93 million, minus 31%. Debt as a percentage of GDP from 112.9% in 2009 was launched at 176.9% in 2015. The GDP itself in 2008 was EUR 232,9 billion and fell to EUR 176 billion in 2015. The dues from 32 billion in 2012 were launched at 87 billion every year and each month are dramatically increasing. National savings collapsed to unprecedented low levels of 8.4% of GDP, while the average of the European Union is 21%. We have a new fall of 1.2 billion in January that passed us. "BLOOMBERG" has made a ranking. Greece has the fourth worst economy in 2016. Congratulations to all who have ruled so far and to those who are now ruling! And it turns out you're going to save and well, make us the first worst economy in the whole world. We have been first to unemployment for many years throughout Europe, with unemployment of 24% to 26%. We are the first to youth unemployment, with 50% -49.7% - together with Spain. One in three households owes more than two hundred thousand euros, according to EMCDDA figures. We have an increase in the trade deficit in the month we spent 5.2%. Of course, how else will it be when illegal immigrants have shut down Idomen for a month and a half now and those heroes who export products cannot export or have to do something else? Analysis of the "Economic Intelligence Unit" for the world economy in 2016: Listen, Greece is on the list with the fastest shrinking economies along with Libya, the Syrian war and Burundi. We're going well. They will soon have created a special category for us in the world and with further negative prospects! According to the annual report of the Institute of Labour of GSEE, your own people, 48% of households live below the poverty line and 20.9% fail to meet their basic needs. Just one in ten borrowers can now go to make a further adjustment of its debts to the banks, the illegal most debts to the banks. According to the Institute of Research in GSEE three out of four companies are showing a deterioration in their financial situation. Heavy damage to PPC from festives coming in because of all the things that happen. And PPC you know it's the largest business in our country and has chain reactions in general in terms of the economy. From 2009 to 2013 - I have no evidence of what is going on so far - around EUR 17 000 have been lost on average in our homeland. They were robbed by the international lenders. In 2009 the state received EUR 50 billion tax revenue and in 2016, with all these new taxes, increases and all, less than EUR 47 billion. In 2009 VAT revenues were 16.5 billion at much lower rates and in 2016, when rates have now reached God, they are only 14 billion. In 2009 personal income tax revenues were 10.8 billion, when 2016 was less than 9 billion. 92% of the money taken by Greece since 2010 in the form of loans was returned back to the lenders and only 8% supposedly fell into Greek society, either to cover holes or anything else. And that, of course, comes from an international institute and not from our minds, so that you don't tell us what you want. In 2016 more than 50% of our payments will be in interest, i.e. you are destroying an entire Greek people, in order to pay interest and interest and interest and nothing else. Let us not talk about the public's attitude to payments with what this has to do with the private sector. We see what is going on with EEAY, who is the biggest banker and does not pay, while at the same time it requires the state of those who do not pay them the state to be okay with their tax or insurance obligations towards the Greek state. The PSI, this terrible work by Mr. Venizelos, was illegal in particular for insurance funds, educational and nursing institutions, because the PSI means Private Sector Involvement, while all that they got tired was not private. There's something else to be done, but that's how you've done it. Not that the haircut you made to microsomes was a right thing and a legitimate thing. On the contrary, it became only a la carte to them and not to the very large cords. We will be able to talk hours endless about the tragic and unbearable things that you have brought into this society. And now you're saying you're gonna save this society, save the insurance, save the tax. How? By reducing up to 30% of new pensions, 40% of disabled, 40% of supplementary pensions by recalculating, 15% of single, 32% dividends, with a reduction in CSR beneficiaries, with a reduction in widow’s pension entitlements? And what are you not bringing? All of this and you say that you do not make horizontal cuts. You're making total cuts to everyone. You really don't count on anyone. Mr Katrugale, you were talking about the fiscal capacity of the Greek citizens, who, under the Constitution, pay more and less. But with the indirect taxes you have brought in and constantly bring in, what you are doing is most of the small, the weak, those who stay here and cannot go to offshore abroad, go to tax havens, such as the 225 billion euros that only in 2016 got big companies out in tax havens abroad and didn't pay a single euro. With the new tax raid Greece becomes the country with the most expensive contributions and taxes of over 60%. On the high scale - it is funny to say 'high scale' for amounts which in other countries are considered to be small and medium-sized - Greece is the first with 61.3% with a second with Portugal. Of the 9 billion measures you bring, only one are cutbacks, and of course they are in the wrong area. It's what I told you. We have a fifth-time increase in VAT in the middle of memoranda. Indirect taxes everywhere, which will increase the greedy economy, smuggling and anything else. And the Commission itself, which asks you to take these measures, tells you that the excise duty anywhere equals less revenue for the State. However, you do. Only EUR 3.6 billion for cigarettes is the loss of revenue for the State from cigarette smuggling due to the unbearable taxation you put as indirect taxation on cigarettes. The same applies to fuels, to focus and to tourism. Your bell's ringing. These are too many tourist units, and since last year, when the illegal immigration was launched, they work under the cost simply to maintain themselves. This year, some people can withstand marginally. No one can last next year. The Lafer curve shows that from a certain level and then the citizens' tax capacity has been exhausted and this has been done in our country over the last few years. We don't have time to analyse that. You said that with the new insurance and tax burden 88% of farmers who have an income below EUR 5,000 will have no problem. But that doesn't say anything. First of all, all people are trying to improve and get better. Secondly, when you abolish small businesses in villages with less than two thousand inhabitants at the same time, where you will be forced to enter OSCE and have a contribution, how can you keep, for example, a cafeteria, which has never been collected? Everyone knows. That's what you do, and at the same time you're talking about tax-free. Together with other activities, with the overtaxation of farmland, where we are now uncompetitive with anyone, how can we do all of this? We're talking about a hypocrisy unbelievable. Exemptions are made all the time and we vote for them here. A month ago, we talked about a link between the European States to tax evasion and tax exemption, but at the same time all states have tax havens. For ethnic alteration - most importantly - we called here on the third-party committees and the multitude, and you never invited them to come here. These are the ones who have children, and tomorrow these children will have to work, work, and someone will pay for these insurance contributions. You're kicking them all out. The bureaucracy keeps you well. The new agreements brought by the European Union end what remains of our country. Without Greeks, with your genocide, there will be neither insurance nor tax. Solutions - we have told them - there are many, but they should be at a completely different wavelength. It is not possible for 92% of economists to be in favour of debt haircuts. Everyone says that there must be auditing of the debt, which you also said beforehand, but now you have "done arrogance".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u198	Mr. Panayotus, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u199	I'll be done in a minute. The recapitalisation of insurance funds and not banks should be done in a last resort. You keep recapitulating the banks, the many bankruptcies. Why? Because they gave the parties millions of euros and the vicious entrepreneurs billions of euros? Is that why they're here? Why not the insurance funds that you've been scorning? A lot should have been done, a competitive environment, a national development policy for a productive and not a parasitic economy. We could talk hours for the reasons. But that is not the least time you have given us, for such a serious bill, which must, as a matter of urgency, be discussed throughout Parliament in one and a half days. Finally, I would like to remind you of something. "The aim of tyranny is for citizens to go bankrupt, on the one hand, so that the guard of the regime is maintained and, on the other hand, for citizens to be busy and for them not to have time for the survivors. In this result, both the imposition of large taxes, the absorption of citizens' property and the construction of pharmacy projects, which deplete public finances, stipulates.' Aristotle "Policies". It's always timely. Unfortunately, our country is in possession. Clearly we are voting against both the principle and the articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u200	Mrs Christophilopoulou, a special speaker in the Democratic Partnership, has the floor. I would ask everyone and everyone to respect a little bit of time, because I do not see a Member being able to speak off the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Madam President. Really, where's Mr. Chakalotos? I think I'd seen him and he'd come in. It seems that the troika has released him - institutions. He had left him a little bit of the bucket, because only as her package could he have agreed to the amendment he tabled to us. We heard Mr Tsakalotos last week confirm that there is no possibility of duty being reduced further. So great a negotiator! He assured us. Ladies and gentlemen, with a night's amendment, literally and transporting, duty-free went to EUR 8,600.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u202	For those who don't have children.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u203	For the three kids?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u204	For those who don't have children. What do you want? Your fig sheet has fallen whatever you say to us, great negotiators. The last fig sheet of the naked King Tsipra has fallen. It was the last fig sheet you had on your tax-free. You said that you would abolish the HPAI, you people who were saying about the thirteenth pension, you who said you would tax the great wealth, brought a bill that breaks the middle class and small incomes. And King Tsipra's last card of fig tree fell, and the king is full of juveniles.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u205	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u206	People'sism, Mr. Comrade. The king of populism. He's nothing more than that. From a resalt occupation and a resalto Prime Minister. He's nothing more than that. The other words are words to leave, I was flying. So you would have abolished the ENPIA, you would have taxed the great wealth. In fact, where is a provision on the great wealth, because, of course, the ones we have brought to the bank secret, for the financial prosecutor, were you voting against them after abomination then? So where is one, number one, to break the great wealth? Mercy! You're kicking the free professionals with Article 114. Every thousand more than twenty thousand euros has a tax of 34%, a scale and a contribution of solidarity. Every thousand over thirty thousand euros has a 45%, a scale and a contribution of solidarity. Every thousand over forty thousand euros has a tax of 52.5%, a scale and a contribution of solidarity. Middle-class raid, free-traded raid and self-employed. First time left. Invasion of the village's cafes. I'll see you later. I'll see you there with OGA. A raid on the little bakery, where the neighborhood gathers, where the world speaks, where Members enter and chat. Why are you doing this? To close and not to talk to the villages, because they'll close the way they're going. They'll close all the small cafes. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] That's what you want. Muga, nobody speaks. Apart from free professionals, let us not forget business, of course. Of course, you're left. You don't want them. Up to 50% gains, we increase the 3% rate, again with an amendment of the night. So the tax account with an article and two amendments amounts to about two billion, 1.9 in fact. This is the policy of complete collapse of every creative power of the Greek society, every initiative, every entrepreneurship. Of course, there is also the possibility of not collecting revenue from the State. That is what the budget figures tell you. You are not going to collect, ladies and gentlemen. What you collected, you collected it from Capital Controls and the fear of the world that was going to pay his tax. People have stopped paying because they don't. Result? Two hundred and thirty-three million euros - says the first quarter of the 2016 budget report - is a reduction in revenue. So, unfortunately, the raid is incomplete. Now let's go to the insurance, which is the main issue. Look, I'm going to call it an abortion insurance because it's reinsurance in the sense that all contributions and benefits are abolished, that's why it's on the basis of unfair. It is based on an extremely unfair system. To say that all these accumulated injustices - which I will speak about - guaranteed the future of insurance, the future of pensions for younger generations! One would say, ladies and gentlemen, 'Let me think about it twice and three times if I may vote'. Sadly, though, you're here and here we are. Because we'll be seeing you in a while, Mr. Catrugale, you'll see that soon there'll be a need for a new raid. Therefore, this insurance not only does not solve the problem, but it is clearly an insurance policy that is budgetary alone. The fiscal issue of the country from your disastrous government pays the insurance. Only the Tsipra - Kammen account says it all. Who's that? Of the EUR 30 million deficit of the insurance funds existing in the 2015 budget, the account has totalled EUR 2.2 billion. Hardouvelis e-mail had only 280 million difference for the insurance funds. This difference in just one year amounted to EUR 2.2 billion for two years. It's the measures you're taking. It's the Tsipras - Kammenos measures. Whatever you say, you can't undo this. Even the lie we heard from the Minister - I'm sorry to say it. He told us a moment ago that he inherited 860 million euros of subsidiary deficits. It's not like that. It's 300m euros in the 1915 budget. Of course, one more lie, one less lie, hay! And we've had plenty of hay from the Prime Minister. Let us just talk about the first batch of hay, when the Prime Minister told us - and the Minister a moment ago - that there was a dialogue. Ladies and gentlemen, when was that exactly a debate? Minister, I will agree with everything you have said about the Committee of Experts. You made it, you got the finding - most of it, the majority conclusion - and then you threw it away. From the first moment the expert findings came out, we, as a Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR, took our responsibilities. We have tabled a proposal, we have started to hold a dialogue and we have asked you, Minister, on several occasions - and I personally and not just myself, but I, as a competent person - to 'promote dialogue, present a proposal on this and make a dialogue'. And we arrived at Christmas and arrived at New Year's Eve to bring your proposal, take her for a walk to the heads and once to the Committee, and that's it. Then what? Then Mr. Tsipras, in the middle of Greece burning, excluded from everywhere and before closing the borders for the refugee, suffocating, summoned the institutions, when the other one, to see them and ferment them and convince them. That was the dialogue on insurance. That's not dialogue. Dialogue you do when you go in coordination with society, with the social actors, with the political forces and say: "Here, I have a problem. Will we all discuss pensions for our children together?' And then we, Minister, because we want to take our responsibilities, told you: 'although now - February, we told you - back up, take back your proposal, we will also bring ours, the Civic Reformation of its own, the social partners who submitted them to us and - I am sure - and to you, the GSE, the GSE, the BSE, which you completely ignored and never invited to Maximos'. Why didn't you do that if you really wanted a dialogue? But, as you did not want to see cooperation - which we told you not to have elections, the country goes to the rocks - so you did not want dialogue and consensus on insurance, because you are deeply splitting and first - the Prime Minister. Deeply dissecting your logic. Two things you want: Pulse the world, divide the world and take it all down. So, let's see your insurance, how's everything going down? The second batch of hay: 'The vast majority of subsidiary members are not reduced'. What's the lie? One - one, then. Let us start with the new pensioners who are the major victims. Whatever you say, Minister, what is in the bill and what you have to say, I think, is incontrovertible. All pensions of people who come out after this law is passed are cut from 15% to 35%. And that is it, ladies and gentlemen, whatever you say, whatever you do not say. Unfortunately, people will see it in their pocket. Another will get the one who came out the other day and established, another will get the one who retires in two weeks from now or after the FEK, in two days, depending on when you get the FEK. I have brought you two examples and you did not want to comment on them at all. I say this again to you, so that my colleagues here in Parliament can hear it - and I have spoken to the Commission - and to answer it to you, not to say good words again. I said that a staffer with a salary of EUR 1,500, who would receive a pension of EUR 1.102, will today get EUR 956. It'll have 13% reduction. This is one of those whose pension is lower. A civilian IP with thirty-five years of service that would take with the old 1,220 euro system, with the new system, will get 886 euros. It's 27.37% down. He's getting a little lower on him. And let's go to the low-pension deserts. What kind of hay is this with the NSA? As with the previous scheme there was a basic pension. Okay, you baptize them. The basic pension you told her national, you'll tell us again isn't like that. All right, you can live the christmas. Therefore, the basic pension cannot be replaced by the NRA because it is another function of the NRA for low-pensioners. You abolished it. And don't tell us, because we put our backs on the disgraceful summer and the flooding of the country, that we voted, instead of you telling us, and I thank you. We voted in favour of the third Memorandum of Tsipras - Kammenos, so that the country does not leave the euro when half the SYRIZA parliamentary group had left. And we hear them from above. If that's possible! So let's go to S.H.I.E.L.D. Let us, for example, take a man, a fellow citizen, who has left after the sixty-fifth year of his age and had a full pension, but he had no other income, so he gets an ESA, that is, 716 euros, main subsidiary and CSCE. This pensioner, Mr. Catrugale, with your system, will go to 514 euros. It is the "first time left" policy for the low pensioner. The other about the replacement rates where you are slapping with the principal and the adjunct is to convince who? Whatever you say, once the bill starts, he'll feel it in his pocket. No way, he'll feel it in his pocket. So I'm continuing with the last chapter. I said it was uninsured and anti-insurance, because it's avenged. He's also avenged by the pensions paid. He's been avenged by the retired man who's been working for so many years and has more to do. I will, for example, bring a man who has worked for years in the steel industry and who has had heavy feelings, a man who worked at a ECHO for too many years and paid too much contributions - he and his employer - and gets a good supplementary pension. This man with the cut-off of EUR 1,300 - not 1,300 - is about 1,200, i.e. 1,150, 1,170, because the contributions he pays for health funds are not counted. Another trick, because you say for 1,300 euros, and it's not 1,300 euros. So this man will either be cut off by the entire subsidiary or cut off by 90% of his subsidiary, Minister. So everything you're telling us doesn't have a base. You go and get those who've already paid and those who think they have to be insured, because a man who wants to have a better pension has a stimulus, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, it will work for many years and will only get 50 euros more than the national pension, which is at 345 euros - take care - with fifteen years of insurance. You have negotiated so hard, but so hard and hard with the troika institutions, which we had to go to the 20-year-olds for the 384 euros! The EUR 384 is the so-called fertilizer of the government, ladies and gentlemen. We're talking about "muddling" properly! But we will not let you make Greece Venezuela, we will resist. Unfortunately, farmers also pay the marble. And because a lot of you lied about the OGA, we, as a Democratic Incorporation, tabled an amendment, Minister. The amendment says to us: 'Take it back'. Let's be one time in what you say right and fix the OGA now. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I would also like the tolerance you have shown to the others. I'm not asking for anything more. And I would ask the other parties to see our amendment to the OGA, which also has a small paragraph on the return of small village cafés to the OGA insurance. This measure has been in force since 1966 and SYRIZA and ANELs have come to abolish it and shut down the cafes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u207	That's true.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u208	Ladies and gentlemen, please look at this amendment and vote on it, because it is very important for farmers to retain their fund, because it was a genocide of what you told them. With regard to pogrom against free professionals, and especially to scientists, I say: You wanted to make discounts for four years. After four years, this man will stop working? Why? Is discounts related to the election cycle? But if you'd like to even make these grim discounts for four years, why do you exclude traders, why do you exclude crafters? Why don't they have a discount? So we have tabled an amendment and we ask for this modest discount that you make for four years for both merchants and craftsmen, who are currently doomed to Kaidas, in relation to the others, and for tax and insurance. So, ladies and gentlemen, you understand that this insurance creates strong incentives for tax evasion and avoidance for too many reasons. It's going to be a stimulus to be insured when beyond the national pension, as I said, your contribution payroll will be poor. We therefore believe that this insurance condemns the new generation, which we should all do together for the pensions of young people, to speak truths in this Parliament. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government comes, puts the cutter on middle income, makes a raid, tax raid and a raid on what it has to do with Greek society and considers this reform. One word: SYRIZA Spent a monster!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u209	The reason is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Madam President. We want as a JRC, from this Step forward, to welcome the thousands of workers who were kidnapped yesterday, who are strikers today and tomorrow, all those who participate yesterday and participate today, who will descend from the rest of Greece to Athens, who will protest, who will protest against this law - crime. We want to greet the self-employed who close their shops tomorrow, all who will be in the Constitution tomorrow morning at 10:00. We invite them, with a narrow voice, to demand once again that the government stop the crime. We call on them not to legitimise in their conscience the slaughter of pensions, benefits of insurance rights, taxation. Nobody misses these games. What you all want to ensure - because I have already heard Mrs Christophilopoulou - is not insurance, it is the needs of capital. You've given written samples. That is the policy of all of you. Your strategy, despite the individual differences, is unified. No anti-subsidy law was abolished by SYRIZA. Yours comes to load his own, with which you agree, but reasons for opposition do not allow you to say 'yes' or allow you to say 'no'. Last year, however, you voted unifiedly with the third memorandum all that the government brings now and what it will bring next, because it will not stop here. The workers, the people's layers, need to draw conclusions from all of you and do not come back, see forward, go subversively, go along with the JRC, who did not lie to them, who did not betray them, who did not suffocate sacrifices in the struggles for popular interests. The JRC has described this legislation as a cause of war by the government. We have described this law as 'legal - collapsible' for insurance rights, benefits, pensions for workers and pensioners. The government fully confirmed us with this bill. We expect to see what will happen with the 3.6 billion, because it is committed to bringing concrete measures or the mechanism, as it says, automatic adjustment, automatic cutting, as has been called. Employees know very well who you're gonna cut. Anti-grass measures have no end. The memorials will be lasting for the people. Yesterday, the Prime Minister, in his speech to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, gave a recital of lies and hypocrisy. Prime Minister, lying has close legs, says our people. You presented the nectar convoy yesterday, the reduction of pensions as a safeguard, even as an increase. Someone can make fun of once and twice, but not forever. The designation "Pinochio" may not render the deception of pensioners, workers and all other groups of insured persons. The Prime Minister yesterday put forward the dilemma from the old ones: either our bill or the evil of New Democracy. No, the people do not want either, they want to satisfy their needs, to pay those who owe them, to stop the sacrifices for pluralism. The bar won't put him down where you're calling him to settle. Private and public workers, self-employed, farmers, disabled people, women, lawyers, engineers, uniforms, young and old pensioners, with the 115 articles, are invited to pay for both cuts, on the one hand, and huge increases in contributions, on the other. This is not what we say, the report by the General Accounting Office of the State says. It is EUR 8,234 billion. These are all called upon to pay in this draft law brought by the government today and says that it ensures pensions. They are also invited to pay EUR 1.7 billion with the tax rate provided for in the latest Articles, Article 114, but also with the new amendment on taxfreeability that Mr Tsakalotos said he would not accept going below EUR 9,100 and now going to EUR 8,663 if I am not mistaken. All of this is in response to what you say, as you say that pensions will not be reduced, that pensioners and other words of equality, of protection of the weak and of other kinds of strife are not affected. You are breaking down the minimum pension that so far has been on the payroll of the unskilled worker. You know that very well. You decouple it permanently and completely. It was 486 euros. Your government took her to 392 euros with Circular Haikalis, as described. What was that Circular Circular? He went to the fifteen days of the unskilled worker with the 586 euros established by the New Democracy. Of course, SYRIZA, if he really defended the interests of workers and pensioners, the EUR 586 will be at EUR 751. Where's Mr. Skourlet? Here in this Chamber he swore that 751 would come. So you went and disconnect the pension from the unskilled worker with this bill you bring today. And what are you doing? You are breaking the pension into two parts, the national and the payroll. So far, then, it has been EUR 486 the minimum pension plus the ESA for the fifteen years. Now what do you think? You say that those who have 15 years - and it is the vast majority of workers, because flexible forms of employment, the working jungle you have established, do not allow for more insurance days - will now have a national pension of EUR 345 plus EUR 63 that comes out of payroll, with a pension of EUR 600. For the 15 years they will have 414 euros. Who are you lying to? The pensioner has so far taken EUR 486 plus EKRF as a threshold and now takes EUR 414 without the EKRF. Where are you lying? Aren't the pensioners going to see their pension tomorrow? Aren't they gonna spit on you no matter where they find you? Aren't they gonna take you back? What's that? Retirement insurance? Increase? State funding will be about now, says, only the national one. The Minister said here, above all, that 6.5% of GDP is going to be spent on insurance from 17% that it was. In other words, this is the goal that comes in, that government funding should be reduced on GDP from 17% to 6.5%, and that is a total of insurance rights, pensions, benefits against workers. So the national pension from the budget. But this is how the European Union defines in its directive on changes in insurance systems. This stipulates that these conditions must be created so that the state and the employer can be exempted. It is, therefore, a pillar and, of course, the reinforcement of the overall capitalisation system you are doing with the payroll, where you call a contribution-benefit link, where the State budget will not be involved. And yesterday we had a conversation about this. Tell us, where does the payroll guarantee? Nowhere is guaranteed through the draft law. And what you say about Article 2 is blessed, because it says the law clearly, the one you bring, that only the national pension will be included in the State Budget, anywhere else. What does it say, too? That in the proportionate studies, which will take place every three years, if the system is not to be viable, pensions, even national pensions, EUR 384 and not only the reward, which will go to the tartars, will be redefined. What do you claim, too? You're talking about how it is calculated, that the pension will be calculated on the basis of the whole life insurance. So far it has been based on the five best years of the last ten. He's going all the way to insurance. You say and claim that this will not bring about a reduction. But what kind of symmatic math are these? It's like '0+0=14'. Do you remember that? That's exactly what you're saying. Forty years, that is, we will add it all, we will see how much pension pay goes out and he will be equal to the five best years in the last ten. What can I tell you? You want nobel deception, not math I said the other day, but nobel deception! The replacement rate so far - and we're not talking about you, but we're talking about hearing us out, listening to your lies - was in forty years 70% and now you in forty years do 40.7%. Is it the same, gentlemen? It's half. How can with half a replacement rate not be reduced by pension? What math are these? Who are you addressing? In cocoons? You definitively incorporate the thirteenth pension you would give - you have already committed yourself - and also the tenth one, for which the insured continue to pay contributions now. You permanently bury her, why do you say? The pension will be paid every month, so 12 months a year. So you had it before and because you were crippled by unions etc., you put it every month, like they eat spoon and don't know that "every month" means 12 months. Does it say in the fifth paragraph that the State has a full guarantee obligation for all insurance benefits and that this sentence is immediately undone with the next one, which it says? The specific provisions relating to the State financing of the scheme shall be repealed. We have already said what you are doing with the tripartite funding that has been established, and it is finally over by the system. As far as the so-called 'personal difference' is concerned, on the basis of the uniform rules for 2016, if it is - it says - up to 20%, then the cut will be made immediately. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] The percentage of the reduction, which will be over 20%, will be given half. Half as a personal difference will be abolished. I say it, so people can figure it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u211	What if it's 19%?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u212	If it's up to 20%, the pension will be cut. Over 20%, if there's a cut...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u213	If there's a cut...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u214	Don't give up on that. Look at the bill. Over 20%, half will be given for 2016, 1/3 for 2017 and 1/4 for 2018. Where are the lies? That's exactly what your proposal says.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u215	It's written.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u216	They're written and we know how to read. We don't read Chinese. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Remove the ESS. By who? You say you defend the weak. Of those weak people you say you're protecting, cut off the ESS. The General Accounting Office of the State values it 2,933,000,000 euros. Remove these from those that are below levels. So who are you protecting? Who are you protecting? What are you talking about? What did the Minister say here now? We're cutting off the ESS, but we're gonna give up - he says - the national pension. What does that mean? In other words, he took the ESS 460 euro plus the ESS, and now he will take 345 euros - because the ESS usually takes it at the lowest level - plus the reward, which, as I said, is very small. In fact, it will be even smaller for them than the CSCE. He ensures - he tells them a decent living! Mercy! Mercy! As regards pensions of death and widowhood, leave these unfortunate people to God’s mercy, as the world says, who are left behind without any protection. And if he had paid for many years contributions by the insured who lost his life, he who was left behind will be entitled to a pension for three years, if he is under 55 years on the basis of the correction you made, and then he will be interrupted, that is, he will eat air cut off until he goes back to 67! These are extremely unacceptable things. You condemn these cases of hunger and impoverishment. In the case of supplementary pensions, those other than the increase in contributions are carrotated. The zero deficit clause has become a sustainability clause and you say that automatic adjustment or reduction will be provided for supplementary pensions. Already, of course, these will go very low. But, with the trick you are doing, that is, if the masters and subsidiarys together are 1,300 euros, then there the massacre will be very great for those who have a main and an ancillary EUR 1,300. The overall cuts, based on the report, are EUR 1,026,000,000 and EUR 123 million for young pensioners. As regards the allowance of uninsured youths from OGA, you set as a condition that they stay permanently in Greece for 15 years from the 17th to the 67th year of their age. In the following paragraph, for the amount of the allowance, it is conditional that they have thirty-five years of residence in order to qualify for the full benefit. Otherwise, they will be reduced by 1/35 for each remaining year. This means that the vast majority of the over-aged, particularly repatriated, will get a very poor allowance, because in Greece it is a very few years old. And we've got a lot of recurring people you're supposed to care about and their survival. As far as the single market is concerned, we are talking about'slaughter'. Here the new mathematical formula brings cuts of up to 35%. A large reduction is also provided for in the dividends of civil servants. Civil servants will lose 832m euros from dividends, again based on the report of the General Accounting Office of the State. Losses are very large and are of concern to everyone. As far as farmers are concerned, you are trilling their contributions, thus destroying thousands of them. What does it mean? And the one with the cafeteria and going to the OGA won't pay the three-fold contributions you add through this draft law?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u217	Mr. Katsotis, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u218	I shall conclude, Madam President. The free professionals, too, will close their shops, because they will not withstand large contributions. This draft law will lead the great mass of retired people in impoverishment and work to the deep ageing. Finally, as far as we are concerned, we are calling on the rise - to say this - everyone. Today and tomorrow we all go to the streets and Athens sinks. Get that abortion back. Don't go on with this crime. That's what we can say. Of course, we do not need to say that we will not just vote, but even now, at the last minute, we say to withdraw this draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u219	The special speaker from Potami, Mr Constantine Barriotas, now has the floor. Of course, one of the special speakers has not respected the time. So we take this into account for the further. Here, Mr Barriotta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Madam President. I'm sorry I can't assure you I'll do it first. I'll try. We have today to talk about insurance. But I will necessarily start with a comment on taxation, since we have slept with another one and we are voting today. It would be desirable to stabilise the downward trend of duty-free and the upward trend in rates. Also, it would be advisable to come to the House at a time when trends have stabilised, otherwise it would be advisable to put a screen across to watch the fluctuation curves live because they have begun to display stock behaviour on the Stock Exchange in the last few hours. I do not think this is the right way to discuss tax reform. As far as insurance is concerned, yesterday we heard the Minister say that 90% of pensioners are protected by this reform. We heard yesterday, despite the strike, too, the Prime Minister of the country saying that reform of insurance is a radical reform that brought back the insurance sector, making it sustainable, saving pensions and cutting EUR 1.8 billion. This is not called radical, ladies and gentlemen, it's called magic. And it's not a bill, it's a trick. It's not all happening together. It's like the rise of the tax-free falling. It's a magical process Harry Potter can do, but I don't think he can make it by a Greek politician. The truth is that from this Step - and not just from this Step - we would all like to say positive things to the Greek people, to talk about reintroducing pensions in 2009, about reducing contributions, about increasing pensions. Unfortunately or happily, however, we are not all populists. Some have to do the dirty work, tell the truth. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that there are no easy and painless solutions to insurance. There's no pie right and the dog is full. It's something that can't be done. But there are fair and unfair solutions, there are sustainable and mortal arrangements. The government preferred the party-favourable solutions - as usual! - indifferent to the long-term effect, which should be the case. And it should be the case because, as the Minister rightly pointed out, we are talking about the heart of the debt problem in the country. It is true that between 2006 and 2009 83% of the budget deficits came from insurance. They headed to pensions of EUR 169 billion from the budget in fifteen years, until 2014. The difference that the Minister forgets is that at that time he was on the sidewalk, claiming more, because that is the truth. In just Greek, then, with this information, we would not have had a memorandum if we hadn't had an insurance crisis, had we reformed the insurance system when we had to. However, in that case, the Partnership along with "nearly all PASOKs" and Civic Opposition was on the way against the first attempt to reform Yannitsi. You see, apart from the budget, the recession, unemployment and all that we know and discuss, the main problem with regard to insurance is an inefficient political system that has been in place and which, unfortunately, is still short-sighted, racist and irresponsible. Until May last year with the Left Government we voted for exceptions, early pensions with the Army Act, which were taken back after. What exists permanently in the political system is the refusal of long-term reforms. No one is in the mood to take over the burden of a great reform. I would remind you that the unification of the funds has been pending since the time of the Venizelos. It never happened. We're a little - very much the same. Today, therefore, we should have essentially closed down the debate on a reform which could guarantee not the level of pensioners' pensioners' pensions, but the ability of the system and the Greek economy in general to provide pensions for the next twenty years, because that is not a given one. With the crisis and demographic developments, the Greek economy's ability to provide pensions in the next few decades is not given. We should therefore discuss a sustainable and stable insurance system for the next twenty-five to thirty years. In fact, we are talking about a financial adjustment of 1.8 billion, which has been disguised in reform to pass sweeter. The guide is the stress of political costs and the vote - old-fashioned features that survive and grow in the crisis - and the aim is the temporary transfer of "hot potatoes" to the future, not far away, in 2018. The same proportional study that Mr Katrugalos brought after the feast along with the various work and studies says that it has been done and calculated the budgetary balance of the system without the personal difference that he guarantees for the pensions already provided, which means that the figures will not come out in 2018. The mechanism is created and all pensions are indeed calculated in a single way. Differences in 2018 should be cut, even according to the proportionate study presented by Mr Katrugalos. But the problem with the sustainability of insurance is not that insurance numbers are not coming out, but that this insurance does not come out of the figures of the economy. In fact, the way in which we are going to solve the insurance is also increasing the recession and economic problems. It is simply that the Greek economy can no longer withstand subsidies at the levels that exist and which are attempting to maintain them. Despite the controversy and the allegations made by Mr Katrugalos, there is no new reform. Here is the continuation, consolidation and implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding entered into by the previous governments. Only because of the capital controls and the performance of the economy, the transitional zones disappear and the implementation comes immediately. The reductions in youth pensions have now been applied since 2016 and not since 2030, while with the mathematical formula currently applicable to the replacement, the cuts are greater than the cuts provided for in the previous law, up to 30%. The truth is that the previous law was in fact a ghost law, in that no single pension was calculated in the new way. It had to be applied 1-1-2015, but it wasn't the circular. Why wasn't the circular ready? And the Left Government very gladly suspended the operation by hoping or thinking it would do something different. It actually comes back with something similar, which is just more expensive for retired people. So what was for the future comes today, the pensions are being cut off, the ground is being prepared for further cuts in 2018, because today the pension calculation mechanism that leaves differences that can be cut and responds to the problem of compliance with the decisions of the Council of State at the moment, as it pushes them for 2018 as well. This is all done, in our view, in the context of an obsolete philosophy. This plan robs young people today and at the same time has the status of being anachronistic, as we have said many times. Basically, it aims at an insurance scheme which has been bankrupt in Europe over the past twenty years many times. Dozens of countries on the planet have now reformed the systems like this, namely the purely distribution systems, because they did not come out, not for any other reason - with a new one. What is being attempted here is clear: it is the maintenance for a few years of a bankrupt solution, because no one is in the mood to go into the deep water. We are therefore asking workers to work harder, to pay more, to get - if they take - far less as a pension and at the same time, we are applying horizontal measures to pensioners by ignoring distortions, chronic injustices and differences from fund to fund, from contribution to contribution, effectively retarding the problem and its solution for after 2018. The other thing about the bill is the application of common rules, but unfortunately there are only in the declarations. Neither common rules between generations nor justice between generations exists between forms of employment, i.e. employees - self-employed. There are horizontal solutions, there are 'cutters', but that is not uniform rules. In the generations, between the new pensioners and the existing pensioners, categories of different speeds are created, which are three: the occupants, those who have been able to take what they have taken. He's not bothered. Secondly, the beneficiaries of a more favourable regulation. In 2016-2018 there is a gradual decline, which will lead to an exit explosion from the State, as was the case in previous years. As the Minister quite rightly said, pension costs go up in the country because pensions are being cut, but pensioners are growing, or - if you want - pensioners are growing and the only solution is to cut pensions. The same will be true of this transitional period. Mr. Friend of the year will be looking for a lot more teachers than this year, because anyone who can leave this year will leave with that law. And above all it creates a huge generation gap among young people who have been unhappy to retire since 2018, who will today pay excessive contributions to get very low pensions. That is the common rules between generations. I will not say much about the work, I think it has been said by many. Contributions to tax proceedings are not a uniform rule, they are something quite different. From category of workers there are different needs and different speeds. And in any case, the figures are extraordinarily unrealistic: 55% total burden - so far it has been, it remains to be seen today's changes - on the total income of the public sector is simply out of reality, it is something that cannot happen, it cannot be paid. And I think that this is where the lenders are insisting on new measures that will now be voted on for 2018, because it is more likely that they will not come out. Horizontal measures and cuts, therefore, make the bill. Instead of dealing with the distortions, as far as pensioners are concerned, he puts 'cutters'. If you get over 2,000 euros, you're cut. If you get over 1,300 euros, you'll have cutbacks. He doesn't consider a fund, no contributions, no payments, no payments, no payments, no payments. It does not even look at what we know, that the 12 famous cuts have harmed pensioners up to 50% of them over EUR 1,100. They are the ones who paid the twelve previous cuts, they will pay the new ones, the tenth that is now being made. This overthrows the principle of the contribution- benefit ratio, overthrows the confidence that the worker must have in the system. It's an injustice that leads to failure. Because the sustainable solution to insurance is not only the numbers, it is mainly confidence and the notion of recompense. The worker must believe that he will receive a pension depending on what he has given, otherwise the necessary relationship of confidence that leads to the operation of the insurance is not built up. What the government does, in the way it applies the contributions, is essentially the opposite. In practice, it ends up with the already shattered confidence of young insurance-insurance-insurance-insurance-insurance-insurance-insurance-insurance-insurance-insurance-insurance-insurance-insurance-insurance-insurance-insurance-insurance-insurance-insurance-insurance-insurance-insurance-insurance-insurance-insurance-insurance-insurance-insurance-insurance-insurance-insurance-insurance-insurance-insurance. And what's he doing? It intensifies the trend towards tax evasion, combines it with tax evasion - now one has two incentives to avoid tax evasion, concealing incomes, so it has a double incentive to tax evasion - leading to 'black labour' and, finally, to 'black labour' and can avoid - a large part of the population, namely - going to buy a private package guaranteeing it a return to the end, in which the Minister cannot intervene every two - three years with the hajara, depending on the development of budgetary problems. On the river we proposed a three-pillar system. That was the system proposed by the Committee of Wise Men. We were distributed by the Minister and the conclusion, which he greatly ignored after receiving it. The whole planet, as I said before, has been going to three-pillar systems in the last 20 years. I am not going to talk about this today, especially tomorrow, and I have already spoken to the committees. I just want to say that as regards the first pillar, the main pension, since the bill is exhausted in one pillar, the significant difference in our proposal with the existing one is how to calculate the proportional pension. Instead of mathematical formula, which is subject to political aspirations, necessities, etc., we propose intellectual capitalisation, which calculates the pension based on contributions. Each individual worker creates an ideaful capital on the basis of which he is retired. This restores the confidence, the rate of contributions - pensions, and in particular encourages the payment of contributions and the residence of the worker at work. As long as contributions and working life are increased, pensions are increased by analogy. The country does need a large, long-term reform, we all agree and the Minister has described it as a good one. The problem is, he doesn't. And even the pension contribution rate mentioned it, except that it does not. Bad lies, it's a very difficult matter. I have said this many times and I will not get tired of saying it: I do not think there is a political body or government of 153 or 165 Members who can implement such a difficult unpopular system. But the truth is, in fact, that the reform is unfavorable from the previous and unfortunately also from the present government. It is beyond the pursuits and a range of governments that we have had in recent years. Old communism has very short horizons. It is used in the financial adjustment with the least possible losses for the customer system on which it is based and which it feeds. He has no ambition any more. It has very short horizons and time. We should, unfortunately, add ideological bumpers which do not allow the government to see either European or international developments, sticking to solutions which, at best, remind the workers of the 1980s in England, that is to say, that they were crushed by Thatcher. As a government, it adopts this classic political tactic. We're sending the problem forward. We are now pretending to protect what, for some reason, is considered a privileged voter's objective, namely pensioners, knowing very well that, in fact, by transposing the problem in the future, we are increasing the risk and undermining the pensions they receive or receiving after years. Unfortunately, the dialogue which you are all referring to is a pretext for us all. It didn't happen. It was not even the Samara - Venizelos Government, because half of Greece was on the sidewalk and not just talking, but throwing stones, and it was not then because the government did not seek him. I would remind you that the draft was issued, it was given to the parties on the day it went to Troika. It was actually too late for any discussion. I would also remind you that the good principle with the Sage Commission lasted one day. It was then announced that we did not discuss this basis and we will do what we want. I don't think there can be any conversation like this. We still say that, unfortunately, this bill is not the basis for a debate on the new reform that will be needed in the future and which does not make this bill, for the simple reason that it is anachronistic and in the wrong tracks. It has objectives, which will never be verified by the evolution of the economy. From tomorrow and every day we will put our position and our proposal in a dialogue that we think should be opened from today for the reform to be done and it will necessarily be in 2018 again, because unfortunately this change, this bill simply attempts to escape the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u221	The reason is the special speaker of the Independent Greeks Mr Papachristopoulos. I'm appealing for time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Madam President. I'm afraid I'm obliged, for once, to make a return to the past. Honestly, I don't want it, but I'm obliged to take this back. I would recommend to some colleagues, very well-meaningly, that they read the articles, written by Tasos Yannitzis, which has nothing to do with SYRIZA, nor with us, about the insurance. It is now certain that when unemployment is at 16%, that is, you have one and a half million unemployed, when the poverty threshold has reached to hit over a million Greeks, when there are millions uninsured and when many children have left abroad, which all economists are talking about, the famous 3 to 1 ratio that applies to all countries of Europe - and indeed some are four to 1, four are working and one is retired - has long been overturned in our country. The ratio is almost 1 to 1, that is, one working, one retiring. If there is even an economist on the planet, who will tell you that it was sustainable for this insurance under the circumstances and the reality, which is today, to see. This is not the time to account for responsibilities, how this 1 to 1 arrived, however, it is certain that in January 2015 a new government found it. Let's forget. However, instead of making a small reference to the past, let us make our self-criticism. Because neither SYRIZA nor the Independent Greeks have been ruling over the last forty years. How did we get here? This reality was recently called upon to face this government. I would also like to say this: I hear extreme words. I don't want to replicate them. I hear incredible things that my aesthetics won't allow me to repeat. What a horror I've heard I'm, what a political fraud, what a tax storm I've heard, what, what! What terrible things! I will say again, as I have said in committee, that I want the VAT to be 6%. I want workers to get salaries of over 1,000 euros. I want there to be no more tax. Question: May I? If anyone has a proposal for this, he will come and tell us, fight her together and review what is happening now. No, gentlemen, there is no. I want to say another thing because I want to be realistic: whether we like it or not, we are negotiating with some people who don't all want the good of our country. Some, in fact, want the country to be crushed. Gianni Pitella, the man representing the Euro-Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament, is extreme. He's extreme, not my opinion. Some people want to crush the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u223	You ask to leave the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u224	It is a reality that we live every day and should, if anything, make us a little more restrained, because the Monday that comes is a historic day. It is the day that I think the bases will come in for at least the next two - three weeks to finally finish the word 'evaluation', get out of there, put the debt on the table and see a new day. One would expect the danger to exist. Yes, making criticism, no objections. For God's sake! It is also the majesty of democracy. With this danger, however, for what I hear from morning to night, a thesis could be done. I would also like to remind you how much poison was spilled - tons, canteen poison - on migration. The streams were there, indeed, to be three and three and a half thousand. It's the deal, poison. NATO's here, poison. It happens that the President is present now. What that woman had heard! Unbelievable things. For those who don't know, we've gotten congratulations from Timmermans. Who's Timmermans? He is German and is Vice-President of the European Union. The Pope praised the solidarity and morality of the Greeks for the way they faced immigration. Yeah, we didn't hit them, we didn't sink them, we didn't drown them. And you know what, today, when we're talking, we've fallen out ten days or a month, yeah, but mistakes aren't him, who doesn't do anything. Criticism is easy outside. Rule and we'll see. Today, already, Bulgaria, which had that crook, who ran around with the pig and was raped, did and came to pass, said the Prime Minister: "We have a number of refugees and we are going to take them." Already in the European Union, it sounds like a fine for some sort of Hungarian and Slovak bracelets, for 250 grand for every person who has a refugee's right to asylum and who doesn't take him. What do I mean? The refugee issue is manageable, and I am glad that it is not heard anymore. The newspapers were lyssomanized with guidance from morning to night. I also did not hear - and I am glad to hear - nothing today about the 3.6 billion. The newspapers and the channels were also Lyssomanated, and unfortunately a large part of the civilian staff. This government has made it clear that preventive measures will not be voted on. He said it to all tons. All Members said so, the Prime Minister said so, the ministers said so. Luckily, today I can't hear it. I want to believe that this historic reality, which we live in, will end somewhat properly and well. I would also like to remind you, in order to go back to the opposite bank, that a large part of the insurance funds went very far. A million early retired people do you know how much they cost the funds and you know who did them? Watching people play pool at forty-five years? Do you know what was meant by the property of the funds over three hundred thousand plastic dates, just like it happened in Olympiacos? I forget the thousands of structured bonds, I forget the PSI, I forget the Stock Exchange, I forget these things, where and how and 1 to 1, and someone tell us if in two years' time they would be retired if that government did nothing. And remind the other one. We were talking four months ago about people who go and live in the trash cans. Yeah, it's 360 euros pre-innovation allowance, taken by an uninsured elderly, not only the immigrants, those who have come from Pontto, but others. A lady was pleased when I told her, during her seventy-two years, that the Church will no longer live in her or the agglomerations of the municipalities, but she will also be able to get 360 euros. We made retreat, yeah. The fifteen years we've been talking about have become twenty. We made retreats to the tax. We were talking about 9,500 euros, we went to 9,090 and we made a final retreat and went to 8,700, but not to those who have children. And we hit the big pensioners. One of them was that I was the manager of the National Health System and indeed came to me with the paper, because I have done my paperwork for a year and a half, and it tells me that I will get EUR 2.132. With Mr Katrugalos' cuts, I will get exactly EUR 86 less. The "crime" of Karugalos is that I will get 86 euros less. On the other hand, to be honest, there are the 1,000 euro blocks, the free professionals under 12 000, scientists under 20,000. Everyone who retires purely 1.170 is not tempted. How much is that rate? The Minister told you. I'll call it a bronze. It's 90%. That's the truth. I'm telling you what I'm missing, I'm not at that 90%. Yes, my only one will be reduced. I know. It's unfair. What am I supposed to do? Yeah, some people, in fact, won't benefit from this story. But for the first time, it's redistribution. It had to be done. Some people criticized me. They called me friends doctors from 'Amalia Flemming' and said: 'I work, I do...' All right, man, you're right. Find out how the country has been looted for the last 40 years. How did the money, the billions, leave the banks and go to bills? Panamas papers are almost all the friendly environment of the former prime minister. I'm not saying it. I don't want to say names now. On Lagard List, what's the problem? Because today's government is looking for them? Do you want me to remember the great conversation of the former President of the Hellenic Republic, who said that we are a nation of a sibling? Yes, this government is sneezing and against it all the complexion - and its expressors - whole, whole, whole, whole. You're picking and taking. So for me, it's an honor I'm not across the street and I'm here. Yes, when you rule, you have a political cost. I'm being caught on the street by civilians and they say, "Doc, I'm not having a good time. I'm suffering. The market is not moving.’ I know. For the first time, however, an honest effort is being made - I repeat - to get the country out of strife, from tax evasion, from the mid-term dictatorship, definitively to get into clean waters. Can I say something else? If we're going to pay political costs, because we want the country fair, honest, clean, let's pay it. It's okay. We don't have a problem. We are not 'thinkers'. We're not here to sit in chairs. It has been proved many times by this government. I won't eat any more time, just like I didn't eat before, that they gave me five minutes and I only used the two. I was expecting a "thank you" by Mr Kaklamanis. He wronged me. In conclusion, I would like to say this: I have nothing in mind but the government's financial staff. He fights the beasts. We might have Moscovisi on our side, Juncker on our side. We may have Draghi on our side who won the review and had the courage to accept the Greek bonds. Some people underestimated them. It's 18.5 billion, then. Some don't say they've given surpluses of 2-2.5 or 3.5-4.5%. How much was that? It was 20 billion. We're getting away with it. No one says in this Chamber that the NRP is not for the first time given to five families and goes where it should be and its absorption is 98%. Nobody's talking about Juncker's package. No one says that tourism has not been affected. Some people made sure to hit him with daily papers. They didn't make it. My mind is now in the financial staff and the government. He's fighting a big battle. We know the IMF - even though it's softened in the last few days - and Shoeble is there. Is that enough? I say 'yes'. Slowly we see that the correlations are changing in Europe. Elections took place in Portugal and it is our country's ally. In Spain we have elections. Renji's cleared. I want to believe that the future is ahead of us. This government must stay and fight. Thank you and forgive me for the tension.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr. Papachristopoulos. You're the only one who respected time. Now we are closing down with the special speakers, with Mr Mario Georgiadis from the Centro Association. I hope he respects the time too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u226	I'll try. I don't promise.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u227	Then we begin with the Members' list. Here, Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u228	Ladies and gentlemen, your good day. I shall start with one parentheses, saying that what is happening today, once again, is without precedent. You are bringing it into urgent form to vote on Saturday's 'Saturday' on the most important bill in recent years, which affects everyone's lives, on the grounds that an appointment with the Eurogroup has been booked and you want - he says - to have passed it. But well, you've known this date since the Great Wednesday. You waited on Easter Thursday, so you could announce it to us first to Easter and then let us know? And let's get over this. How can we go beyond the fact that you are calling us on Thursday at three o'clock at noon at a Conference of Presidents to discuss something that has already been decided by Maximos and, in fact, by information, has leaked to the press on the same day that the urgency is coming? Honestly, do you want us decorative? It's, at least, offensive to all of us and all of you. Also, does not the fact that it is not a prerequisite for the Eurogroup discussion tell you something? Could not the Eurogroup meeting and the normal procedure be voted on in the next week? Apparently, the truth is the Minister wants it in his suitcase for the conversation. I don't understand how hypocrisy we can take anymore. I'm closing the parentheses. I have to tell you that in the debate in the committee I referred to the scandalous way in which you are actually burdening the market and the private sector with additional taxation, with a great advance payment of tax, with solidarity contributions, which go up according to the level of income, with huge insurance contributions even on average incomes. I would therefore like, in my speech today, to show politically the size of the hypocrisy of the current government. So many times we've told you that, with big taxes, we don't have a lot of money. They act as a tax incentive. You, however, estimate that "if with alpha my receipts are ten, with two alpha my receipts will be twenty". It's not like that, though. The more you increase taxation, the less the tax revenues will be reduced. While you're chasing with the workman's whip to pay, the bigger "holes" you'll have. This has also demonstrated the recent data produced by the General Secretariat of Income in the Committee on Economic Affairs. Total revenue, before tax reimbursements, from the ILO and audit centres amounted to 31.67 billion in 2015 and, in fact, less than 7.7% of the annual target of 34.4 billion euros. On the contrary, the number of checks carried out was more than double over the previous year. Do you want a lot of brains to understand that the more you abuse the private sector, the less revenue you get? Stir a lemon butt and you believe that the solution to make more juice is to stir it even more, instead of finding a new one. That's exactly what you're doing. With these bills, which you want to pass, that is what you want to continue as political in the years to come. What's your excuse? That the bad IMF is pushing you to tax and exhaust society, so you want to blackmail it by intercepting talks, as we were told the day before yesterday and a government MP. What happened Thursday night? Mrs Lagard, the IMF chiefly responsible, sends an urgent letter to the nineteen finance ministers in the euro area. What did the letter say? I would like, please, to pay attention to all of you, especially those who are following us. So Mrs Lagard says, among other things: "Unfortunately, the emergency mechanism that Greece has proposed does not include specific economic reforms. Instead, the authorities suggested making short-term horizontal cuts. Based on previous experience, such measures are not very reliable, but are also unwanted, as they enhance uncertainty and are unable to resolve the underlying imbalances.’ And what else does Mrs. Lagard tell us in her letter? "That the IMF has often proposed to relax the austerity measures, but the Greek Government insists not to want it". It also stresses that "the IMF is wrongly accused of not being flexible, which leads to a negotiating deadlock". These, ladies and gentlemen, I am not taking them off my head. They are official publications and so forth, which Mrs Lagard herself said the day before yesterday, and I submit for the FINANCIAL TIMES minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We, as the Central Association, have been telling you from the outset that we need to move to a voluntary memorandum, with a key focus on reforms and not horizontal cuts. We said that if we support such a political line, we would accept our requests from the lenders. Well, there's no more passive proof. Creditors admit that the path of reforms is the only acceptable to them, neither overtax nor unnecessary cuts in ordinary victims. What do we tell you to do, in other words, over the last few months, at the very first moment, when we entered Parliament? Cut off the big pensions above EUR 1,500 and suspend - it is important what I say to you, not cut - pensions in rich people with incomes of more than EUR 3 000 per month, cut pensions in all hereditaries, regardless of when they were retired. Politics, ladies and gentlemen, is a recompense function, not a wage-paying profession. And the Minister, Mr Katrugalos, told us the day before yesterday that there are MPs who are not signatories and who are not retired from another profession. Let's take it, Minister. That's right. To find a solution for these people. But why should everyone else receive double salaries from their fund and parliamentary pensions? We cannot understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u229	That's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u230	It makes sense to protest. That's not what you're interested in. It makes sense to complain.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u231	But that's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u232	You want to tell me you won't get a parliamentary pension from your fund...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u233	No, of course not.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u234	It has been repealed since 2012.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u235	You won't take either.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u236	I'm not gonna call anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u237	We won't take either. Why should we take it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u238	Because I was elected after 2012. I'm talking about before 2012.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u239	You're lying! And who's going to take? You're lying!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u240	On the contrary, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you have been telling us the same thing throughout this whole time: that, in other words, our bad lenders are drinking blood and that Mrs Velkoulescu is Mr Draculescu. That's what your Minister said and he's still in his position. Here, then, the IMF officially says it is your choice to impose direct horizontal tax measures and cuts. This choice of you, in fact, to exaggerate so brutally and improperly, does not have the IMF's approval. These horizontal cuts you want are your unilateral energy. The IMF has asked you for just one thing: to do reforms and even in the long term. And what do we mean by reforms? I'll repeat, once again, what we've been telling you for so long. Cut the slow pay in the public sector, cut the huge rhyphetological pensions, stop the appointments of others. But, of course, they, ladies and gentlemen, are your clients and you don't want to hurt them. They support you in the election. So what is your solution? To impose, as a matter of urgency, all these immediate measures of overtaxation and horizontal cuts and, indeed, during the weekend with a strike by the media by the trade unions, who are, of course, also friends with a view to your ideology. And where are you finally imposing measures? To those, who are not your clients, in the personal private sector. And not only that, they will also pay it, those civil servants who are friendly for the state. Why? Because the same will cut their wages and pensions with the slow-wage civil servant. That's very fair! And since you have no provision for rewarding the good and productive civil servant, because even the assessment you have introduced as a bill is carried out between the public body itself assessed, this is your tactical and social justice you are engaged in, to find a scapegoat, a barbaric, an external enemy. It is now called the International Monetary Fund, yesterday it was called Merkel, tomorrow it will be called otherwise for you. And when any Mrs Lagard happens to make a public statement or send a letter like yesterday, then it collapses your lie, then the truth arises, that is, it is the Greek Government that chooses to apply taxes instead of substantial reforms. The bad ones are not the partners, ladies and gentlemen, nor the IMF. They do not impose taxes, they impose targets. That's the difference. You choose taxes and cuts instead of making reforms to achieve these goals. You continue the pathogens of decades even at the threshold of complete economic and social decomposition. If since 2009 - and I address all governments not only to you - you have implemented correct reforms, already in 2011, the country would be out of memoranda. There are examples of Cyprus and the Netherlands. Instead of reform, however, our political system adopted beans, passed laws in the House when it waited to get a dose and thought we were mocking the strangers, while we were actually mocking the Greek people with memoirs saying we were tearing them up. Aren't you telling me? Why are there still four hundred non-registered public bodies today? Why are there EUR 3,000 multi-retired people over and above? Why are there early privileged pensions? Why do we still have so many closed jobs when unemployment is at 25%, deflation of the worst in the world and tax revenues from legal persons at the bottom? The reason is obvious and simple, because all of this is your voters. This is the pathogen that supports you. You know that if you're reforming, you're not just going to be out of the government, but there's a very good chance that you might be out of Parliament as well. Therefore, it is convenient to continue talking about bad foreigners and transatlantic barbarians. In FINANCIAL TIMES, and in all the reliable news media in the world, the statement by Mr Papachristopoulos to the committee is spreading since yesterday, that the government itself made the intercept of the IMF talks and the whole world considers us as citizens of indigenous or stupid, that we consider an enemy to be a global institution, which proposes reforms instead of cuts and over-taxation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u241	So you're defending the IMF and its position?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u242	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u243	Take a seat, Mr. Georgiades, for the IMF.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u244	I told you that the position is reform.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u245	Mr. Famele, there's no dialogue in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u246	Why don't you take a seat? Are you with the Greeks or the IMF?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u247	Mr. Femmelle, you're capable of...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u248	Calm down, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u249	Mr. Voutsi, what does the President do? That's not behaviour!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u250	We've taken place so many times. The position is reforms, not taxes imposed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u251	Are you in favour of Mrs. Lagard?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u252	Mr. Femelle, don't interfere. There is no dialogue in this process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u253	Of course not. We are in favour of reforms, not arrogant taxes. We're telling you to cut pensions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u254	Are we gonna do it in here ringing?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u255	Go on, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u256	Make the largest pension at EUR 1,500 so that the minimum pension can also be increased. That is why in various countries, such as Austria, ladies and gentlemen, some parties supported their campaign on this, that the Greeks are sceptical and fraudulent, that they only want to collect and not make reforms. The worst part is that these parties, even though extreme, won their local elections based on propaganda against us. I am tabling a relevant decoy against the Greek on all the streets of Austria. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned articles, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Well, no longer is the situation, ladies and gentlemen. That's not the image of my country. I'm not the one you say I'm abroad. You don't represent me. I am proud of Greek and I am proud of Greece. I know the Greek works and is creative. You are the one who presents him as an international beggar who constantly asks for loans without consideration. You are the one who makes the Greek caricature on the streets of Austria. You are punished with 100% tax advance for anyone who dares to become a little creative and open up a new business in Greece. You want him to be a client of your party army, because this requires your side to be a permanent solution. No, ladies and gentlemen, we're not accomplices to this crime. Either you make reforms as the whole world asks, or you will leave power shamed and history will write you as a sad parentheses of "first time left". The weather ends, and our patience too. We are, of course, voting against this bill in principle and, as far as the articles are concerned, we will be discussing them tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u257	The list of Members of Parliament is now starting with Mr SYRIZA first. Time's seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u258	Madam President, I would like the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u259	What's going on?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u260	Here in the Chamber, when I talk, when some of my people talk to the Centro Association, some troublemakers come out who make sense, shout out. Is this going to continue and you're going to be speechless?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u261	I wasn't speechless, Mr. Leventis, they intervened. You didn't hear me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u262	Did you come in? All we didn't hear...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u263	You protested to the President. Be careful not to make remarks for no reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u264	Watch out for me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u265	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u266	Oh, not you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u267	Not me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u268	I'm the problem!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u269	I did my debt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u270	Mr. Katrugale, you want to go through the bill without being able to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u271	No, of course, we are seeking dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u272	Come on, Mr. Armachyn, you've got seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, Madam President. I'm gonna abuse a few seconds because time has already begun and the time is running. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating a bill, the insurance -'mini' tax bill, which for the first time had been put to the vote for so many months. Some of you, of course, from the Opposition, are telling us that this is a surprise, and indeed this weekend. In any case, there has never been a bill that has been discussed so widely for so many months. Secondly, when we testified, you told us that it was a unilateral energy. Now some of you tell us it's a subjection to the lenders. What, at last, do you support? Pick. What is it? Submission to lenders or unilateral energy? Thirdly, you repeat as Opposition a version of bankruptcy and catastrophe, filling up the news releases of systemic media with black propaganda and misinformation, aiming at terrorising the people. We are not celebrating, of course, the positive aspects of the economy, which we have seen as elements and not as predictions, which are constantly being disproved by the International Monetary Fund or by other institutions. We're not celebrating. In circumstances, however, I mention only five elements: First, more revenues and in 2015 and early 2016, a surplus of deficit forecasts. Secondly, minimal recession in 2015 0,2% against a recession of 2.7%. Thirdly, the absorption of the ESDP funds from all the countries of the European Union. Fourthly, a reduction in public deficits to private individuals. Fifth, a slight decline in unemployment. We're not celebrating. However, these are elements showing the systematic work and a course we have entered into. Because you are constantly telling us that the tough measures that we voted on from September to today and what we are voting on today are our only cutting, our own government, and because I have swept away Mr.4336/2015 again, that is, the agreement, Memorandum 3, if you like, I would like to freshen up the memory of the Greek people about what we have all voted on together, two hundred and twenty, except, of course, KKE and Golden Dawn. So I remind you briefly what is contained in Law No.4336, because it is not an empty shirt, this law has specific points: Firstly, the integration of all social security funds into a single entity, namely, a fund. Second, gradual abolition of the CSR by December 2019. Listen to this, because you're telling us that we're abolishing the CSCE. Thirdly, abolishing excise duty on farmers. Fourth, continuation of the procedure for the collection of HICP. Fifth, gradual abolition of preferential tax treatment for farmers, that is, tax of 20% for 2016 and 26% for 2017. We are achieving what we are voting on today much better than what we have voted on at the time. Sixth, increasing the taxation of rents to 12 000 15% instead of 11%, 35% against 33% for over 12 000 euros. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from the 2000-2006 programming period. Eighth, reform of the solidarity contribution since 2016. Ninth, three VAT rates: 23%, 13%, 6%, with an increase of 23%, including public transport tickets. Tenth, increase in rates in hotels to 13%. Eleventh, an increase in tax advance from 55% to 75% for peer-to-peer companies. Dodecanese, abolish the reduced VAT on the Aegean islands. Thirdly, a reduction in insurance costs by 1% of GDP, i.e. by 1.8 billion. That is what you have all voted on, ladies and gentlemen, and do not come here today and tell us that these are exclusively our own measures. Ladies and gentlemen, following 11 reductions in pensions, which were on average EUR 1 200 million, followed by the collapse of the insurance system, the scandals of structured bonds, the Stock Exchange, the PSI, the halving of billions of the funds reserves, the reduction of insurance costs from EUR 33 billion in 2010 to EUR 22 billion in 2014, the reduction of the State subsidy from 18.9 billion in 2010 to 8.6 billion in 2014, i.e. when the governments of New Democracy and PASOK were middle-timed, we after all, in these circumstances and in a suffocating context of a public, universal, redistributive insurance system that ensures the State, establishes equal rules and unites the system to date unrealistic and irrational with the dozens of funds and the hundreds of different ways of awarding pensions. We guarantee the main pensions and 90% of subsidiary pensions. In any case, we are introducing the national pension, based on a growth clause, namely, if we were in 2008, we would have EUR 600 and not EUR 384. Because I don't have time, because he's gonna ring the bell in a bit, I want to say this. There is one issue that has become a lot of specula, the issue of villages under two thousand inhabitants, which concerns many islands and small businessmen in these villages who are insured in the OGA. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I tell you that these people, these people, those who had an agricultural activity or those who were insured in the OGA from another activity, continue to be insured in the institution that follows the OGA, but under conditions described in Article 40, namely, the minimum minimum insurance income which is 70% of the unskilled worker's monthly wage, which means with contributions for 2017 EUR 57.4 per month, EUR 689 per year and with the health industry, if you like, EUR 934 per year. This is the disaster that the SYRIZA Government brings - Independent Greeks and Efologists Greens. In any case, with regard to all this, ladies and gentlemen, what is the proposal of the Opposition and, in particular, of the New Democracy? Private insurance, compensation for farmers' contributions and a zero deficit clause, i.e. effectively abolishing supplementary pensions. These are your proposals, you have no other proposals. We, in a difficult context, are moving towards the assessment and reduction of public debt, moving upwards on a path that will succeed in relaunching and developing the economy and beyond, hopefully, for a better living for the great majority of the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u274	Finish, Mr. Symphony.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u275	These are our positions, these are our proposals. I wish you, too, had some specific proposals to discuss and not just screaming and delirious, because after the evaluation you would not have a role to play. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u276	I would like to address a special appeal to the Members. Because there are too many of their fellow Members who have been written, they have spoken with special speakers, they are parliamentary representatives, leaders, colleagues, they do not violate the time! No one will talk in the end! Mr Stavros has the floor from New Democracy. Mr. Stavura, we're not going to make any setbacks!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u277	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin with a personal reference. Yesterday, the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mrs Vaki, made a denomination on my face on a alleged incident in committee. That's not the case. We must all be absolutely careful about the use of names and incidents. I believe that Mrs Vaki, acknowledging her mistake, will have the decency to restore the truth in Parliament, in writing and in oral terms.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u278	He corrected it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u279	Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the insurance and tax bill in a problematic and uncertain environment. I will highlight five points about the situation and its dynamics, and this is necessary, because the left-wing governance, trapped in the deadlocks, which she herself created, delaying the completion of the evaluation on its own responsibility, resenting, continuously, between the left-wing idealism and the chair of power, turns asynchronously, creating a virtual reality. Let me be specific. First point: The Government argues that the situation in the economy has stabilised. The truth is that the country has been plunging since the beginning of 2015. The real economy has returned to the recession, where it remains. Business expectations, consumer confidence collapsed. The overdue private and state debts were increased. Exports of goods and services, turnover in industry, construction, wholesale and retail trade, and services declined. The enclosures in the market were multiplied. Conclusion? The inability of left-wing governance has brought enormous costs to the economy and society. Second point: Government claims it has achieved a primary surplus. I would remind you that it has led to surpluses from the previous government, but today it triumphs. Does he really not know that any achievement of the result is due to the state's attitude of payments? Does it not know that it is due to additional measures such as increasing VAT, such as cutting off major and ancillary pensions from 2015? One more thing - pay attention to - in 2013 and 2014, the country achieved primary surpluses, reducing government debts, reducing tax rates and providing a significant amount of money to deal with the humanitarian crisis. Today, the government achieves a primary surplus, increasing the dues, increasing taxes, limiting to a quarter the funds for the humanitarian crisis. This would only allow SYRIZA's political courage to be termed a success. The third point is that the Government maintains that for the first time it opens the debt issue. Who? The government, which is responsible for burdening its viability, the government which has been cultivating recital hallucinations from free old age for supposedly debt haircuts and which, today, without political here, has seen as a success the implementation of regulations discussed since 2012. Of course, it avoids double restructuring, with a 'haircut', in fact, of debt, the lengthening of bonds, the reduction of interest rates, the reduction of interest rates in previous years. It is clear that falsehood is a structural element of SYRIZA's DNA. The fourth point is: The Government argues that the measures are only EUR 5.4 billion. The truth is that the measures amount to at least EUR 12 billion. In particular, the Government has already implemented measures of EUR 1.4 billion for 2015 and EUR 2.2 billion for 2016, which were voted on in 2015. It has agreed to new measures of EUR 5.4 billion, several of which - not all - are included in this draft law. It has also agreed on additional preventive measures of around EUR 3.5 billion. This is the account of SYRIZA - ANEL governance. It is a much higher account demanded by lenders a year and a half ago to achieve far higher objectives. It is an account, which has already gone far beyond the August agreement, even without the additional measures, of EUR 1.5 billion. This account shall be equal to that of the second Memorandum. Look, measures were taken in 2012 with the economy in a deep recession -9% - and with a large primary deficit. The government is currently taking equal measures, despite the fact that in 2014 the economy had returned to a positive growth rate and to primary surpluses. This is the financial result of SYRIZA's irresponsibility. The fifth and last sentences are as follows: The Government maintains that there will be no need for additional preventive measures. But, if that's the case, why is that quantifiable? It is clear to us that this is due to the specific composition of the government's financial measures and, in particular, to the left-wing ideological insistence on increasing taxation for all citizens, households and businesses, professionals and self-employed, new scientists, wagers, pensioners, pensioners, farmers' tax cuts, so-called'red lines' by means of amendments, by increasing taxes on income tax, by permanentisation and by increasing the solidarity levy, by taxing rents, by increasing dividends, by increasing insurance contributions, by means of an amendment - agricultural subsidies again, by increasing - through a further amendment - the taxation of profits from business activity, by increasing indirect taxation, which we have not yet seen and by an insurance bill of reconstructing anti-reconversion, socially and counterproductively counterproductively, but also by noting the physiological and anti-productive principles. This mixture of budgetary policy has been demonstrated by the first memorandum, which copies it, economically ineffective and socially unfair. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would say that the left gold dust, which is again trying to throw the government - from what is left - is no longer convinced of the citizens, who are awkwardly following the theatrical work of so-called heroic negotiation in a scenario and the direction of SYRIZA, are experiencing a painful course in the rift and are waiting for the coming tsunami of hard measures, seeing that the worst is in front of them. That is why the country needs another government, with other policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u280	Mr Stavros Arahovitis, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u281	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in my position today, I would like to focus on what is provided for in the draft law on farmers. To begin with, I would remind you that the OGA has been excluded from the regulation of Law 3863, which would mean that farmers would not receive a basic benefit, since it was gradually going down to 2026, when they would be completely abolished. In accordance with Article 40 of the present Law, persons insured to date in the main insurance of farmers, OGA, from 1-1-2017, shall pay as a contribution to the main pension scheme a percentage of their income, as determined on the basis of their taxable income from the agricultural activity pursued. However, since agricultural income on average is much lower than the urban instrument, there is a fixed arrangement that the minimum insured income for farmers will be the equivalent of 70% of the unskilled worker's wage and not 100%, as is the case for the rest of the self-employed. The same logic is based on the fact that the insurance contributions to the OGA will have a longer transitional period of harmonising them with the remaining contributions by 2022. In addition, where there is a family farm, employed by the spouse or minor children, the taxable income is divided by members of the holding. The insurance contribution shall therefore be reduced for each member. However, a basic section is what is meant as taxable income for farmers, which, as we have said, is also the basis for calculating contributions. We are talking here about Article 114 and what it will mean as a profit from business from 1-1-2016 and then for farmers. Thus, paragraphs 3 and 4 of that article are excluded from taxable income and are not understood as profit for farmers and subsidies for the second pillar, as well as aid for the first pillar, other than basic. Green aid and associated income are considered to be taxable only for the amount above EUR 12 000. It is also introduced for the first time real income tax on activity, beyond what exists in subsidies. Thus, it is being forced to say that - duty-free inequality in subsidies, where those who did not receive a subsidy were not tax-free. The EUR 12,000 tax on subsidies was introduced by this government last year to protect taxation from the first euro provided for by Law 4172/2013. Suffice it to mention a few examples of the new scale of taxation for our farmers: On the basis of the agricultural income declared in 2015 in last year's tax returns, 85% of farmers declared agricultural incomes of up to EUR 5,000, without including subsidies below EUR 12 000, which were exempted by the regulation of Mrs Valabani. Also, 90% of VAT, which declared agricultural income less than 9 000 euros. It is only from this point of view that most of the farmers have declared income under the present tax-free system, from the tax, imported today. For those of them who declared agricultural income under EUR 5,000 the annual insurance contributions for the years 2017, 2018 to 2022 will then be based on their income and will be calculated as follows: For 2017, EUR 937. For 2018, EUR 1,092 for 2019, EUR 1.248 for 2020 and then EUR 1,338 for revenues, as we said, EUR 5000. In order for the image to be right for colleagues, but also for the Greek people, and not to plunder, because populism is over these days, 62% of those insured in OGA with the old, with the current law, in 2017, would pay 1.096 euros, while with our law, it will pay 1.092 euros. Therefore, in 2017, and in 2018, contributions will be lower. One more thing. With the figures of the Ministry of Finance, 83% now belongs to this category and not 62%, which currently belongs to the most populous third category. But here, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to return to the nearest past in November 2014 when seventeen Members of today's Opposition Officer, New Democracy, attempted to pass a parliamentary amendment - something like that - on the exclusion of Community subsidies and duty-free admission. This amendment was not accepted by the then Minister on the grounds of the failure to assess the impact. This amendment together with the relevant press of the time I would like to table in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Stavros Arachovitis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We, in agreement with colleagues, have already introduced the 12 000 tax on subsidies last year, and with Article 114 of the current draft law, specialisations have been introduced on this point. I therefore hope that the Members who had signed the amendment will vote on it. The tax reductions under Article 114 for farmers in our country are very important in themselves. If they are combined with the corresponding insurance contributions, the feeling of the law that we import for our country's farmers is obvious. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is obvious that this draft law serves the objective of supporting primary production in our country, which the government has sought and sought in the context of the real negotiation and dialogue with producer organisations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u282	Thank you, Mr President, for keeping time. Parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Alliance, Mr Andreas Loverdos, has the floor for twelve minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u283	Madam President, this morning when we set the procedure, we agreed on what Mr Katrugalos was proposing, who said that the State Secretary would speak. The Secretary-General would therefore speak after the rapporteurs - speakers and then the first or part of the first Members. So I want to talk after that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u284	Tomorrow, Mr. Petropoulos will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u285	Then I'll talk now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u286	Here, Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u287	Ladies and gentlemen, for the present majority of this House, it is time for this, which you called tax-insurance, that is to say, the time has come for the truth. In other words, that hour came that doesn't fit you of the majority. And it doesn't fit any of the three who you've presented to us. It does not fit either the demagogue and false self before the January 2015 elections or your later self, with the demagogues, falses and caragiozis of Varoufakis and the homicides that broke out in the capital controls and were avenged by the third unnecessarily inappropriate memorandum you brought to Parliament to vote on. It does not, however, fit neither the post-September pseudo-reformer you, who baptizes as "reformation" in taxation and insurance the billions that you get from people and citizens with the draft law that you have tabled today. This is a draft law which verifies a designation for SYRIZA, which many of us have given to the National Representation - and I too yesterday and which I repeat today - of the reform of a 'false left', 'Left Maduro'. This "reform" what does it do? Ladies and gentlemen, with this draft law and article 114 he was taking until last night EUR 1.7 billion. from taxes of all kinds at dawn, with a bouzouquet time amendment, and another EUR 200 million from the tax reduction at around EUR 8,636 billion, that is, EUR 1,9 billion from there, plus 3 billion 114 million from what is supposedly a change in insurance, namely: 337 million from existing supplementary pensions, 48 million from the new subsidiary. I repeat, to be precise: 337 million from existing supplementary pensions, 48 million from the new subsidiary, 900 million - please - from the abolition of the CSR, 345 million from the reduction of new pensions, 117 million from the widow's pensions, 187 million from the non-payment of pensions to current pensioners, 133 million from a reduction in unpaid single, 87 million from the netting of individual differences, 38 million from the pension ceiling and 21 million from a reduction in family benefits. These, plus 708 million, which you intend to take from the revenue increase, i.e. uncertain, since Article 41 and later increased dramatically and unconstitutionally - as we stressed this morning - increase contributions and creates the certainty that this money will not be taken because, as is well known to the Jerusalem people, increased contributions mean undeclared work. Total from your insurance change of EUR 3 billion 114 million and EUR 1.9 billion from Article 114 of all forms of taxes, totalling EUR 5,014 billion. You have committed yourself, as dozens of Members of Parliament and Ministers have said, that the package is ECU 5.4 billion. So, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you have not yet finished. I have told you in committee that the bill, going towards the vote in plenary tomorrow night, will be increased to the detriment of the citizen and man. Indeed, the Buzuki amendment, last night, increases it by 200. Perhaps it will continue until tomorrow night in this draft law, if the rest do not come from a next government legislative initiative, which changes the insurance - it is supposed - and changes the tax. You have tried - you have not succeeded - to transform the debate instead of a straightforward debate on it in a debate on the 3.6 billion escuders, which you are trying to prevent. What are you trying to prevent supposedly? To regulate now and not to be regulated during the implementation of your policies when deficits arise. Instead of 'cabe' you say we vote on them then. However, the debate has not been moved, it has not passed on to you, because people have been laughed at several times by you. Now, Easter, they told all of us, I imagine, to you, whoever we met and knew and watched. As much as some strikes do not let the truth come to every house, the sound of truth the citizens have taken him, they have heard him and know well what you have brought here. 'Nova verba', I told you in committee, new words, dyes. Instead of cuts and squeeze money, new insurance and reform, pseudo-reformation. Instead of troika a little earlier, institutions. Instead of basic pensions here, national pensions etc. As a citizen, no man chews, because feeders are you, the experts of unnecessary and the tape recorders of demagogy and lies. No one believes you and you have the courage to speak against us - the Minister this morning was inappropriate - having a direct connection to the time when you have had a party on your bodies and our honesty with what you were saying, with the cry of your Chief of Anti-Population, that you will not let us leave our homes. With the propulsions and beatings you had a party on our bodies and our honesty, you're the tape recorders of the lie. Some say experience is revelation to yourself about how politically stupid you have been. But you insist. Instead of self-criticism, you insist. You're insisting on inconsistency today. Instead of trying or at some point after the September elections, brother, trying to do something of what could be done, no, you let time pass. The proud negotiation charged the Greek citizen with billions every month, which passed. And because we are telling you that as long as you lose time, so much this time is money, which comes out of people's pockets, you have objected to these arguments - and today it has been heard - saying "as bad as SYRIZA has done in a year and a half now, the problem is now being born? Previously on behalf of the Group of the Previously we pay - you say - and you are trying to fish again in bluish waters. Ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, we said before the January elections, aware of what it means to rule a country in a crisis, that one weekend and five days is enough to destroy what you were trying to build in four and five years. Let me tell you what you have done this year and a half that has so much uploaded the account for Greece and the Greeks. You've brought the country back into recession. Do you know what that means? I won't count the year 2017. I will stay in the years 2015 and 2016. The forecasts of the European Central Bank, which many also praise from the majority today, said: 3% growth in 2015 and 3.6% in 2016, 6.6%. Instead, recession. And your point is if the recession is 0.3%, is it 0,2% or how much is the recession? However, this money, which has been destroyed by growth - it has not brought, ladies and gentlemen, money, which would go into the public fund, to become political funds, to become health care and pensions and not go into it. Instead of growth, the recession, so less money for all of it. And after less money, then measures. What did you still do? After you did the precedent, unemployment did not deviate at the predicted rate, not from us, from all the international organisations. And that's a problem. And after that happened, you did not, at least, try to reduce undeclared work.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u288	That's right, that's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u289	Undeclared work has increased. Efforts 2009-2014 were abandoned. It's up. And what did that mean? Even less revenues, so more measures. Fourth, Squirrels. The Minister is here. Rhodes: The last dreadful example with an investment that stopped at its birth. The Greek. Date for the attempts to begin? Date of UN designation: 1 June 2016. New date? Tsakalotos was here and I was in the front: 'I have no say to you'. Is that my assessment? In 2019 and we see. We shall not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that you have opened the insurance system without opening it. How did you open it? By taking a series of measures favouring the insured - it is true - that you voted against. By taking it, you opened the insurance to make it better and accepted in your memorandum with wide-ranging words that the basis for solving the problem is Law 3863/2010. I don't know how you're doing well with yourself. Leave the people and your voters. How do you get along well with yourself? To finish, Madam President, I want to stay in some of these. which I gave before, to see you false friends of the people, you who care about words, even here today for the many citizens, what is involved in your insurance. First and foremost, you are abolishing the CSCE. It says the Minister: 'We will give the pension'. Is the same allowance and the same is pension? Is your allowance cut unknown? What is easier to do in practice? And why either or the other? Didn't you like us having the benefits and pensions? You didn't like it. You were friends of the people. Now nine hundred million, those who raise your hands tomorrow night, leave the CSCE. Two: Hey, I'm sorry about intimacy, but do I mean her-- from widow's pensions? If you're up to fifty-five years old, do you, if you're a survivor, a wife or a man, stop your retirement from fifty-five to sixty-five years old and get it back then? Get out and work? Where to work? Working in a society of non-separate unemployment? Moreover, do you have any right - especially those who are lawyers in employment - to overthrow the disability data? For decades, colleagues of all wings, but - you all know and know that if you have more than 67% disability, you have a huge work problem and your protection system focuses on it. Over 80%? The disabled over 80% - there are many doctors in the Chamber - is almost inhabited. Is that, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, sensitivity? Who? And is that a reform of insurance? Duck the money is to get Mr. Tsakalotou's Treasury out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u290	Mr. Loverdo, you've been over three minutes a year. You've approached the speakers' time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u291	I'm telling my last sentence. Has anyone given you the right to have parties to the difficulties of previous governments, actually, to regulate contributions as you have regulated them? Didn't you have four and a half months of a dramatic strike that depleted the survival limits of an entire industry of workers, lawyers? Did you hear what they say out here? You didn't hear. [[Z' Vice-President of Parliament Ms GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS]] In conclusion, we are voting against the articles as well. We are against you and tell you that with these works and all of your words, before your Government and after that, you are a foreign body for the Greek political system. And you've started today and you're doing the main job...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u292	And you are a body!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u293	We'll see it in the next election. You're digging your political pit. You deserve the contempt of the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u294	Mr President, I would like the floor for a correction, a substantial communication to this House, so that it does not come back...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u295	Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u296	We have said this on several occasions: as many disability rates as were available, they are maintained. You come back to the same lie, and I don't understand why you're doing it. To end up, I mean...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u297	Without the amendment or our amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u298	That is the position of the government, that is in the bill you must finally read. Because you're used to not reading in your wing. And if you see that in there, you can tell us. If there isn't, why do you say it again, Mr. Loverdo? To say we're us a foreign body when you've brought the disaster over the years? We're the foreign body? Finally, re-establish the truth in order to have a real dialogue on a crucial issue for our people, which is social security. There's no such thing, I'm saying it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u299	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u300	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u301	No, Mr. Loverdo. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u302	Excuse me, but he addressed me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u303	Is there a personal matter? No, Mr. Loverdos! Mr. Rabbit has the floor from Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u304	Excuse me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u305	Excuse me, but please sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u306	Has the government accepted our amendment? She said so, but has she accepted it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u307	Mr. Loverdo, please sit down. You have the floor, Mr. Rabbit.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u308	Thank you. We are here today to have this debate on insurance and we are now listening to the verbal disputes between today's coexistence and those who have led our country into this situation, ruling forty years ago. And we hear verbal controversy, and I repeat, only because nothing else can be said about it, and nothing can be said and supported. Because you're right that the government is blaming the opposition for liars, just like the opposition is blaming the government for liars. We will agree with both of us. You're liars, and you and I are liars. Just what separates you is that you're telling some truths when you're on the counterpopulation benches and when your turn comes to do the rulers, you come and do what you've blamed the previous ones and this game changes every six months, every two years. The only thing that does not change is the remoula and the stealing of the money of the Greek people. And we come to the rhetorical question we're dealing with. Who gives you the right to steal the insurance contributions of Greek citizens? Who gives you the right to do what every Greek citizen has given you for so many years, to cut it as you wish? Who gives you the right to go through pensions - and you tell us with great pride - at EUR 385 and to tell us with great pleasure that it is a success what you have done? Go out, give your own wages and our own people we get as MPs and get 385 euros and live two weeks, not more. But don't come here to portray us as the smart ones, the left-wing government that would take care of Greek citizens! How ironically can you be against the Greek people and how much more can the Greek people tolerate you? Because you can be sure that you will not be tolerated for too long and it is a matter of time when it will erupt at some point. And there's no need to urge anyone. The Greek people will not last. That's where you drive him. And your lies are so much that I really do wonder how you're looking at each other. When you yourself leave the cabinets - because you will leave very soon with what you are doing - and go to the headquarters of the Officerate, you will blame those laws you have put in today and have implemented. And the Civic Opposition or any opposition - because there will be various conflicts - when it comes to these benches, it will defend what you are doing today. I would ask a question here: How dare the opposition parties talk when they themselves voted on 14 August 2015? Did you vote for them yourself, did anyone else vote for them? "To save Greece," you told us then. Why didn't Greece survive? Because you sold Greece and then now and now you will continue to do so. So after saving Greece with the signatures you signed on 14 August 2015 and of course, why are you today in such great controversy? I repeat: Who gives you the right to steal the Greek taxpayer's money? Nobody gave you that money and he didn't give it to you. The Greek insurer has paid them and must be remunerated. We will make another point here, and we will say why you are exactly the same thing. Because yesterday we took in our hands a list which will not be heard from anywhere else in the Greek Parliament. It will only be heard from the Golden Dawn, because this is how we are intended to do for the Greek citizen, and that is why we are constantly having consequences. So, let's see what the systemic banks of Greece, the ones we're constantly lending for, the ones for which the Greek people are constantly paying out of their pockets, so that you can run on four by asking the Troikas to get new loans, new instalments for the recapitalisation of the banks, which do nothing to give Greek citizens. But listen to what they give the media. Because the game and the trio of corruption that exists in Greece are the big-time and big-time slaves at the same time, the big-time politicians, who have been playing the game with them for so many years, the media and systemic banks. So listen to what they receive from systemic banks for the year 2015 only: "SKAY" - "KATHMERINA" 3,357, DOL "BIMA" - "NEA" 2,877,000, "ROR THEMEGA" 2,540,000, Bobola "NATIONOS" - "PHASE" and more 2,462,000, "ANDENNA" 2,288,000, "REAL", "GENIC" 2,071,000, "ALPHA" 1.634000, "MEGA" 1,976,000, "FORDER TYPOS" 699000, "AUGAS" about 490,000-500.000, "NEWSIT" 376, "WSIT" 376 000, "FIDA OF THE STATES" 310,000, "RIZOPOSIT" 310,000, "RIZOSIT" 31,000". In all this, Alpha Bank has also given a donation to support Soros's non-governmental organisation, which is at the port of Piraeus right now and welcomes and feeds immigrants, illegal immigrants! Let's give a hand there, because Soros is suffering the man and he can't pay the non-governmental organizations he has! That's the list of your scandals, that's where you're all together. And you come and tell the Greek people to make bloody sacrifices, bloody savings, to get money to give these bums with whom you've been eating them together for so many years and with whom you have set up a "democratic dictatorship", which does what they want in our homeland and whoever dares to get out, resist and speak on them expect very difficult consequences and waits for him hard days. However, I repeat that you are in a bad position, because a nationalist movement has been found, the Golden Dawn movement has been found, which believes and believes what it does and is here to defend the Greek citizen, the Greek citizen who you put him down at the moment and to seek to find in the trash foods. It is the Greek citizen of whom you come to "gold the pill" and give him a gift of 150-200 euros. Who told you he was a zealous Greek? Who told you that you have the right to ridicule and humiliate the Greek citizen by giving 150 and 200 euros of benefits? The Greek people don't want any benefits. The Greek people want what they deserve. The Greek people want what they have paid for thirty-five years and forty years, and which you have been in their pockets, in their wallets and you have stolen them, when you have no consequence on this, and when you have hundreds of millions of euros in the banks. That is the truth, and for that, you see, together with all the media, all the big politicians here are after us so much and you are so afraid of the view of the Golden Dawn. That's why the Golden Dawn never goes out on any big system channels and no newspapers, because we told them, we'll tell them, and we'll keep telling them. We are not going to buy or back in our minds. Let's just finish by saying that what you have to do is support the Greek family, the new Greek citizen, the new Greek worker. You have to help him. You have to give him motives. You must love him. But, to love him, you must feel Greek, feel patriots. You're the only ones who make candy in this phrase. You alone, hearing about Greece, go crazy and say that you are a multicultural society, which will do what you are doing here. So, if you want, what is in your pocket and not what belongs to the Greek people, you can give it from your pocket to illegal immigrants. The Greek citizen, the Greek worker, demands to get what he is entitled to.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u309	Mr. Pavlides has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u310	Ladies and gentlemen, since 1950 the policy implemented in the insurance system has been a policy of customer relations in the creation of electoral tanks and collective flirts, photographic regulations and the service of one side. Unfortunately, it's time for her to go through the fund and pay her mistakes. Sixty-five years now, the country's public insurance system pays your policies and pays them very expensively. Since you have set interest rates below market interest rates, since you have had interest rates on the reserves below current inflation, since you have been following a catastrophic policy on the reserves, you have excluded these funds from the Greek State's securities market, with a very high return on capital. The result was tragic. The reserves of the insurance funds were consistently recorded for years of negative returns and the actual value of their deposits was dramatically reduced. After forty years of introductive and disastrous lack of use of the reserves, what has unfortunately remained, you decided at the beginning of the 1990s to implement an extroverted policy on their investment. Instead of making a serious, active, fund management, you have made the gamblers, without protection, diving them in the Stock Exchange bubble with incalculable damage. I hope you remember. It's that period - you know - that you became Greek society along with her breakfast coffee reading "ENEDY" and other financial newspapers - she didn't know from an economy - to see if she would invest in the shares of sugar or in flour, which all of Greece was watching daily the prices of crude oil and if she didn't have any money, the bankers provided you, easily, warm money to throw it on the Stock Exchange. You remember - I suppose - when I speak, PASOK colleagues. Then came the structured bonds and the PSI, there, near the success story and lost the insurance funds 13 billion. The euro. You remember - I think - colleagues of the New Democracy and of PASOK, what a time I'm talking about. In the 15th years from 2000 to 2014, the state budget covered 156 billion euros of insurance funds deficits. The 92 billion in the 2000s and the remaining 64 billion in the 2010-2014 years. But of course, for you, we are the worst government in post-multiple. You're calling us to leave because we're dangerous. I guess you guys should be the harmless. You must be the ones responsible who, if we do the favor of leaving as irresponsible, will give the solution to the problem that you have created, regardless of whether you are the same persons, the same first-class party officials, the same former Deputys and Ministers, the Vice-Presidents of Governments, who have been until the day before the last 20 years. And what's the solution? No substantial proposal. Only sterile criticism. No integrated counter-proposal that responds to how we will make sustainable a public insurance system that has lost 25% of its wealth, with one out of four unemployed and a pension expenditure that almost absorbs 1/3 of the state budget. Just screaming. And because I said about cries, Mr. Christophilopoulou, small businesses in the province, in the communities of less than two thousand inhabitants and with low incomes, are covered by the provisions of the law and passes to the favorable status of those insured in the OGA, and so are the accommodations of up to five rooms or if they have farms of up to ten rooms. The law mentions it in it. Are you lying about why? So you can show up on TV in your villages? I don't get it. There is a provision in the law, clear: Article 40(1) and (3). So drop the finger. Leave the nerve out of here and don't hide behind the cheap self-criticism you've been doing for a long time, that society has punished us and put us in opposition. Even the opposition, how much more so when it is Dedicated, must have its own role, have its own responsibilities in such a historical reform. Such an important reform that does not fit hypocrisy, misinformation, catastrophe and Armageddon theories. Sadly, however, with you are in the same role as sad representatives of information, your trade unions and scientists. It is worth wondering how some people discover a new mathematical theory that supports the principle "if mathematics, do not agree with our policy, so much the worse for mathematics". I heard the rapporteur from the Centroon Union the day before yesterday, Mr Georgiadis, saying that from 70,000 we will get 60,000 and 100,000. I wish him his next mathematical venture is to square the cycle. What, really, is your policy? To convince society with your "pads" that this irreversible government makes 85% of the income of employees and professionals? So you also need to find the right science for this. How do you do it? Three the oil, three the vinegar, six the oil. Cocoa policy. It's nothing else. I'll say it very specifically. How do you get the 85% confiscation? In other words, 27% of contributions, 45% of high-income taxes, 9% of solidarity levy and something small. If it doesn't come out, you put your phone number on it, it comes to 85% on mixed income. However, first lie: 27% of the contributions are calculated on net taxable income rather than mixed income, not mixed profits, that is, what everyone starts and has taken out of their pocket, from their business to see how they will first pay the state, their tax, and their fund. So the actual percentage you add to the above added is considerably smaller. Thus, the rate of contributions is not 27% of gross income, but 21% of income up to EUR 89,000. Due to the "root" in insurance as a maximum of 18,986, for incomes above 89,000, 27% falls to 16% and falls continuously as the income rises. Second lie: Tax is calculated on net taxable income, i.e. the deduction of contributions has been deducted. So the actual rate of the gross income tax is also considerably smaller. Third lie: due to different rates of income scale, the average rate of tax calculated is much lower than the percentage of the rate to which the income belongs. Thus, the rate of the gross tax of 22% is 17%. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will not be late, Mr President. From 29% to 19%, from 37% to 21.6% and from 45% it becomes 24% and declines depending on income. Similarly, the solidarity levy. Due to the progressiveity of the EUR 12,000 tax-free scale, the rate from 2.2% is 0.69%, from 5% to 1.77%, and from 9% to 5%, depending on the level of income. These real mid-term rates of contributions and taxes add to the addition, to see what we are going to get out of the pocket to pay a state, tax and tax and not the percentages of the income category. Thus, total low income obligations do not exceed 38% to 40%, in the medium term they are close to 45% and the high incomes from 45% to 55%, i.e. meet the European average. So, for example, freelance professionals will pay with the new...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u311	Mr. Pavlidis, you're finishing up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u312	I will not be late, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u313	You've already reached eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u314	So, for example, freelance professionals will pay with the new bill two and a half thousand...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u315	Tolerance was until eight minutes. Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u316	I will not be late, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u317	You won't be late, you won't be late, but you've already been over eight minutes. That's not how it works. You are talking at the expense of future colleagues. That's clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u318	You're the first person to notice me about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u319	I didn't get it. Do you notice the Bureau because you have exceeded your speaking time? You've already decided this morning yourself? Excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u320	No, Mr. President. I'll finish. I haven't come out much of my time. I'll finish. Freedom professionals will pay with the new bill two and a half thousand less in total obligations of ten thousand in income, two thousand in fifteen thousand, a thousand hundred less in the incomes of twenty thousand euros, eight hundred euros less than twenty-five thousand and will have a minimum burden of just a hundred euros in thirty thousand. Significant progressivity and rationalisation of taxation by internal burden transfer strengthens low incomes. You, however, have allergy with the progressive tax scale. You taxed 26% and ten grand income and the income of fifty thousand. What perception of tax justice and fair burden sharing served your system? I shall conclude, Mr President, with one phrase.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u321	Well, Mr. Pavlidis...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u322	I'm ending with a phrase.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u323	No, no phrases.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u324	I'm in the dialect, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u325	You're done here. Please. You don't have any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u326	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u327	Here comes the next speaker, Mr. Panayotopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u328	Make my closure, Mr President. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u329	Is that how we're going now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u330	So you remind me of a phrase from Breech, that the grasses are talking about bread over the table of the hungry. Unfortunately, you are not illiterate, you are irresponsible with what you are saying. You are not ignorant, you are perishable and dangerous. You're not uncivilized, you're insinuating and lying. In order not to blame you, because I may be wrong, I would suggest that you do not make tax statements yourself. Trust your neighborhood accountant. He's got better understanding than you guys get out of numbers, or you're in danger of doing a great deal of damage to your business.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u331	Mr Panagiotopoulos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u332	Mr President, personal speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u333	Mr. Loverdo, please sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u334	Mr President, I have a very serious personal issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u335	I didn't mention his name.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u336	I don't understand, Mr. Loverdo, what are you in here? Excuse me, I started talking and interrupting. Sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u337	I request the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u338	I'm not giving you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u339	I have a personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u340	Please sit down, I'm telling you in a mild way. Don't make me take action. Mr. Panagiotopoulos will speak and Mrs. Gara will follow. We have already reached agreement that the parliamentary representative, Mr Dannelis, will then speak from Potami and Mr Mardas will follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u341	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u342	What do you want, Mr. Loverdo?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u343	I would like the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u344	Staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u345	Very serious staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u346	Let's hear what the staff are up to.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u347	Mr President, no matter how intense our conflicts are in the Chamber, no matter how much our confrontation with different political approaches, ideologically, we must create conditions for seriousness with regard to the regulations that have been put forward in this House. I was impatient - and for my dignity most seriously - by the State Secretary, ironically recommending that I read the regulations of the draft law on disability. Minister, Article 7(4) of the draft, which we have three hundred Members in our seats, provides for disability reductions in national pensions on the basis of its percentage, as I have said. I ask you to withdraw. I would ask you to address me from next time, as I speak, politically no matter how strongly you wish. But not tell me that I don't know what I'm criticising. And if you do not know the legislative initiative you have taken, it is bad for you and the Prime Minister who has the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u348	Mr. Panayotopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u349	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say that I do not find it unreasonable that the previous fellow Member mentions the main expression of the theater of irrationality, namely Brecht, in order to justify what he is doing today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u350	Jonesko was not Brecht.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u351	He was, though. I will oppose all the usual irregularities in the legislative process now - the Rules of Parliament are only doing for premises - or the convenient silence of the ESA which does not enable the systemic media to inform the public, which really is fighting for what is currently being legislated. I cannot, however, oppose the repetitive remorse of the Minister of Labour towards Civic Opposition for demagogy and hypocrisy. Mr. Katrugalos is gone. I hope he's watching from somewhere right now. Is it us, Minister, demagogers and you, sincerely, who are now in the ministerial headquarters to legislate what you are legislating for, because two years ago you promised, and tenth-thirds of your pension? Didn't you make a demagog at all and we're demagoging now? Are we, Minister, hypocrites and you sincere, personally, who, as a lawyer and freelance professional in April 2014 - not much old - have you applied for cancellation to the Council of State on a ministerial decision determining how one-off calculation is to retired public pensioners, in a much weaker reform than what you are bringing today? Do you, in other words, have any hypocrisy now that you, as Minister, are coming and imposing much tougher, more dramatic reforms in this area? For this reason, I am tabling the last page of the full-fledged document on the signature of the Minister. Take it as an actual hypocrisy certificate. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I admittedly made a very difficult effort to find a social group in the bill somewhere, one that wins. Are the young people going to win? Are the old workers going to win, who are now the only motive they have is to leave to retire? Are the farmers to whom the Prime Minister personally promised, among other things, that he would maintain the OGA, in a rattled and relaxed atmosphere in Maximus? Are the wagers winning? Do free professionals win? Let's not talk better about them. Are scientists gaining self-employed doctors, lawyers and engineers who, for the sake of survival now, will systematically transfer? Do the civil servants and the uniforms win the ones they get from here for example? Are people gaining with disabilities, persons carrying different forms of disability, as strong as your ‘red’ line? Are the widows winning? Are the low-retired people who are so tired of losing the NSA? Everyone loses, ladies and gentlemen. Everybody. Whether due to a reduction in pensions or a reduction in one-off dividends or a rise in contributions. Either sooner or later, everyone loses. And some even feel like they're being exterminated. These are the most productive elements of the economy and society that, as I said, will lead to systematic evasion. However, along the way, these behaviours will lead to new deficits in the insurance system, even in a fund that you intend to create - although I do not know how - given all the institutional, accounting and legislative arrangements that need to be made in a very short time. New deficits will lead with mathematical certainty to new measures. I wonder if that is why the lenders - perhaps because they too do not believe that these measures will be implemented - now force you to vote on the so-called 'preventive package'. In conclusion, whoever is redistributing deficits is dispensing tomorrow is dispensing cuts. You are doing this and you are baptizing it 'viable reform of the insurance system'. It is neither sustainable nor reformable. There is no element of architecture in a demolition work. Your insurance is only a financial contribution of EUR 3.1 billion this year to cover the account of your own management failure. Not that the system didn't have any problems and pathogens before. The derailment, however, took place in time. It is, of course, based on the basic rule of Article 11 of Law 3863/2010, according to which the State must not exceed 15.5% of GDP for the payment of pension costs. This is your main admission. So, you continue on this basis your legislation. In fact, it is taxation with a socio-security cloak. This is the only way of interpreting the income-sharing levy. The tax is essentially and in combination with the other high tax burdens - without talking about the indirect taxes that come - they lead to the State actually giving about 60% of the people's income. Not 80%. I suppose, however, ladies and gentlemen, that it is not too much to give more than half of what you are making to the state, because the state maintains this high level of spending. Of course, there is also the inevitable contribution to your increased social sensitivity, to protect the weak against privileged ones. Another story here. In your approach you identify the high pensions with the privileged and low with the non-preferential, for which you are "short". I'm taking out your "purpose" for the CSCE. In fact, high pensions can well be linked to the high contributions paid or to many years of insurance, i.e. a lot of hard work, while low pensions may also be linked to cases of early retirement - the old distortions of the system which, at some point, were trying to reform, you did not help, rather across time were opposition - may be linked to cases of a few years of insurance, even in cases of gross employment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President. I'll be out in a minute. Look, let's make it clear: we didn't come here to present our own insurance reform. You legislate. It's your bill we're talking about. That's what we're putting in. When the time comes, we'll have a lot to talk about. After all, we have already started a great debate not only on a truly sustainable reform of the insurance sector, but on a functioning social state and indeed on a new model of social security assets.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u352	I shall conclude, Mr President. Answers to key questions. How will the system continue to pay pensions? How will income be distributed between those producing and making contributions to the system and those not producing, but have acquired a right through their retirement? Is parametric changes in the system sufficient, for example, how to calculate pensions, contributions, times and others, or should the change in the example or part of the change be considered? We know the international trends and where they lead to what pillars. Can insurance be considered exclusively by insurance tools or should it be considered in the context of a more comprehensive economic policy? Are there and are fundamental principles of equality, reciprocity, solidarity between generations and synergy within the three pillars? Is there a social consensus? Apparently, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u353	Mr. Panayotopoulos, you've been talking for eight and a half minutes already. How much longer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u354	Twenty more seconds. There are basic policy texts, such as the European pillar of social rights and the European Commission's important initiatives, from which you are absent. Is there, in fact, the part of the proportionate study that you made available to us just two days before the debate in plenary? And finally, are you answering the question of greater reform with the assumption that insurance is directly linked to the overall course of the economy and, therefore, that its major challenge is to restore the economy to a positive rate of growth? Because insurance supports employment. Employment is underpinned by growth. Development will only result from the liberalisation of the creative powers of the private economy and of entrepreneurship and you do not have them very well with them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u355	You're closing, Mr. Panayotopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u356	You can't get this job done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u357	Mr. Panayotopoulos, we're closing. You've already spent nine minutes. It can't be done anymore.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u358	I think we can do better. I don't know exactly when we'll be summoned to prove it. But I know that time will come. If he comes sooner or later, it doesn't matter. The fact is, when he comes, it's only about the size of the damage that we're going to be called to manage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u359	Before giving the floor to Mrs Gara, she asked for the floor for a minute. Come on, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u360	Mr President, I always respect the parliamentary procedure in an absolute way, but I must, because I was summoned by Mr Loverdos to apologise, and I do not know what else, to read the provisions of his own law, which bears his signature, mainly because he said that I should be taken away by the Prime Minister, because I do not know what is happening to me. It says Mr Loverdou's provision: 'For pensioners receiving a reduced pension because of invalidity of up to 67% and up to 79.99% of the basic pension is granted', that is to say, 'and at a rate of 50% to 66.99%, 50% of the basic pension is granted'. I didn't say anything else. I said that we are maintaining the existing provisions. They're exactly the ones. And indeed, under 80% disability is reduced by the percentage that you, Mr Loverdo, have placed. What exactly are you fighting about? Unless you don't want someone else to talk here, only you. And because I'm not old, like you, you can say what you want!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u361	Explanation was given by the Minister. Come on, Mrs. Gara, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u362	Excuse me, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u363	Mrs. Gara has the floor from SYRIZA. Mr Maniatis, Mr. Dannelis, will be followed as Parliamentary spokesman from Potami and Minister Mardas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u364	This has never been implemented, Mr. Petropoulou!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u365	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u366	Understood?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u367	Please, be quiet! Respect the speaker in Stepma, if not the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u368	Can I get started? May I?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u369	Start, Mrs. Gara.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u370	Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the debate on insurance restructuring, at a very critical time for our country, I will be allowed to deal with an issue that is rarely or even targeted, which concerns young people in this country. When we entered our schools, we entered dreams to create, work, self-determination, evolve. And in the first few years - specifically to me, during my second year of studies - we have become the generation of 700 euros. After a few years, quickly, we became the generation of 500 euros. And the years of your memorials have become the generation of 300 euros. In fact, we were the generation of precariousness, insecurity, stage, black labour, exploitation and migration. A generation of rights-free, a generation of consumables, a generation that only fights for survival and a generation that has been hit by the undiversity and the'meson', which you were asking for to find. We were and we were an invisible generation. In youth groups there is rarely someone insured. If you find a job with 500 euros, it's considered a very good job, and if you have insurance, you're fine and don't complain. For a pension, no one is talking about and no young person is interested, precisely because we know that, if this system goes on, we will never receive a pension, because the funds are falling apart and our series will never get there. But this whole situation, which I describe, was not created at random. It has causes and behind them are specific policies that you have implemented. You have implemented them, I stress it again. I am surprised at the discussion of all these months on the insurance system that you have. Instead of apologising to all these young people for stealing their dreams, for making them consumable, you are following a path of lies. You're lying, lying, lying from morning to night. So it is courageous for you to talk about the insurance system, which you have played in gambling the insurance funds, you who have implemented PSI and depleted the reserves, you who have played in the bet on our own pensions, you who have slagged on the insurance and labour system, you who have taken down the country, which have operated collectively and client-to-people at the expense of workers and pensioners, you who have abolished the collective agreements, which you have signed thousands of redundancies, which have left an entire generation with no rights, followed anachronistic ideas, you do not want to change anything, even if the existing system collapses. Why? Because you are serving certain interests. You have created cheap workers and weak, north of the interests of large companies. You have the courage, therefore, and you are accountable to all these young people. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, are you asking for elections or universal governments, why do you miss chairs, or why do you have nothing else to suggest? Did you ask the pensioners whether they would accept the application of the zero deficit clause? Have you asked the farmers whether they are willing to accept subsidies for their insurance? You asked if they could pay private insurance? Did you ask a new scientist if he could pay 500 euros a month for his insurance? Did you ask a free professional who dramatically reduced his income if he can continue to pay the EUPM, whether he has a job or not? You know who pays the blocks, don't you? Do you have contact with society or with reality or all you care about is the destruction of this country? I know, we're ruining your plans, obviously, because you're now looking at your favourite big-time, big-time, big-time publishers, big-time businessmen, bankers, while you're the ones doing a boxing on the intercom lists. Instead of supporting society, even at the last minute, which has been tested for years by your policies and smuggling, you are only spreading lies. Aiming to falsify reality, creating a climate of frustration, destabilization, depression, preventing all young people from starting a new job. You are saddened by the positive things that are going on in the country and you are using all the unfair means to attack the crisis that you have created, you who have actually sold our country and humiliated an entire generation. One is the conclusion: You are enemies of the country and of the Greek society. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that the situation in the country is very difficult. Unfortunately, magical prosperity sticks do not exist to change in one day. However, we are making huge efforts, both to put order on the immunity of the state, to control the complexity and to protect the weakest strata of society and to lay strong foundations to pass on to a time of modernization and development. The new restructuring of the insurance system introduces the concept of justice and proportionality and provides for its viability, so that even this new generation of EUR 500 is entitled to a pension. It reflects the real needs and possibilities, as it connects the insurance contribution to income, even if this framework is particularly suffocating. At the same time, it has special protection arrangements for both young scientists and farmers, even if you do not want to see it. Ladies and gentlemen, you are accusing us of having ideas and taking the country back. Yes, I admit we have ideas and ideas. We have the ideal to protect the weakest, to tax wealth, to distribute burdens to society. We have the ideal of merit and purity. We have ideologies that are fond of your immunity and involvement. If you're accusing us of these ideas, we're proud to have these values. Ladies and gentlemen, I would again stress that magic wands do not exist. But, with steady steps and very hard work, we are sure and determined to take the country out of the crisis and move forward at another time. As hard as it may seem, no matter how hard it is, we will succeed. We will achieve this with allies in society, workers, pensioners and young people. We will achieve this with young people in particular, this invisible generation that has knowledge, skills and dynamics, with this generation that you stole their dreams from them, but they insist on fighting, with this generation that needs motivation, protection, security, security and a stable environment, a generation that is entitled to pension. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] To conclude, I would like to say that we owe these new better working and creative conditions. We owe the field that will open their wings. You just owe an apology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u371	Mr Maniotis has the floor from the Democratic Reconciliation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u372	Ladies and gentlemen, because 'they deprive the first', I remember that when SYRIZA came to the government, he said he would take the bars out of Syntagma Square, because he is not afraid of the citizens who are protesting. I don't know if the bars came out, but this morning I read a news I don't know if it's real. I read that the doors of the National Garden that they see towards Maximos are closed so that no one will pass.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u373	After the media strikes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u374	But at the National Garden, if I'm not mistaken, there are only freezes and ducks that cry... [[Laughers from the New Republic ward]] ...but they cry on other ices and other ducks. They don't cry either Prime Ministers or Ministers who live in Maximos. Why, then, the closure of the doors of the National Garden to Maximos? Because, in fact, a panic leader of lies, Mr. Tsipras, the one who would save Europe, the world's worst negotiator according to the best university, Harvard, the admirer of Maduro in the bankrupt Venezuela, where mothers fight each other for a glass of milk for their children...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u375	And that's why SYRIZA's fault?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u376	...she breaks down with his favorite partner, Mr. Kammenos, it's time to land in reality. As far as the insurance contributions of farmers are concerned, these from 7% to 27%, the tax from 13% to 22%, which was, goes to 22% to 49%. A farmer with an average income of 1,000 euros per month and with a woman will pay for him and his wife contributions and taxes of 5,400 euros. Of course, the cafes, grocery stores and manubes in the villages of less than two thousand inhabitants will be closed, because it is obviously no longer a good thing for the government in the villages to gather people and discuss their problems. Scientist - and indeed a young man - who is struggling to make EUR 15,000 a year, will pay contributions of EUR 5,700. With all that he will give his partner Mr. Tsakalotos and Mr. Katrugalo, he will only have 6,500 euros left. The Government is the golden sponsor of private insurance companies. However, because we were provoked by some colleagues to put forward proposals, we as a Democratic Incorporation, in the context of what we call "progressive patriotism" will be tabling five proposals with titles. Because, in fact, "patriotism" means Greece with confidence, extroversion, creativity and innovation and because "progressive patriotism" means reforms with a progressive political signal, we will begin with our proposals. Proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal On May 17, in ten days from today, the Prime Minister of the country will inaugurate in Thessaloniki the largest project of south-eastern Europe, the TAP gas pipeline, 1.5 billion euros budget, ten thousand jobs. We fought him. We negotiated him. We made him a law. We brought him to the House. We voted in favour of him and you voted against him. You have the courage to celebrate a play you haven't put on a penny. For a project that you voted against, in ten days will the Prime Minister graduate that this project may be his? [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Second sentence: Lost Opportunities. I table for the Practical List with a hundred and five major investments totalling EUR 6.1 billion approved when the SYRIZA - ANEL government took over in January 2015. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] All five investments of EUR 6.1 billion and of eight thousand jobs in the 'fridge' have not been implemented. These are the answers to the problem of insurance. The third proposal, entitled 'The package that is lost'. We gave, we dropped the building of 500m euros, for 'Security'. We had proposed to Juncker EUR 2.5 billion for savings in housing, public buildings and private investment. I am putting the cover and page 16 of the report of the European Commission published a month ago, which characterises the Greek 'Security' programme as Europe's second best, far better than the German, English, than the French. The second best! We're talking about 2,5 billion euros on Juncker! You're not doing anything! [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Fourth sentence: The destruction of creation, Victim. The main rail line in the country - import, export - has been closed for fifty days. The ministers drink strawberries at the cafeteria, instead of resigning or giving them up by the Prime Minister of the country. I shall end with the fifth proposal, which is very serious and I would like to put a question marker. It is entitled ‘National Minority’. I'm putting her in a question mark. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I remind you of Mr 4162/2013 who you voted against and who, despite the rabies reaction of the Troika, we voted in the Greek Parliament. It's the National Social Solidarity Fund law. It is the law that, as Norway, Australia, Canada, Great Britain, has done, it generates from the revenues of the exploitation of mineral wealth and hydrocarbons a large network of safety for the country's insurance system. Will you dare this law of 2013 to abolish it? Are you going to be in the troika or are you standing? Because you will soon be accountable for your insufficiency and irresponsibility, I tell you that your story has condemned you. A close psalm of each other will be condemned by the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u377	Mr President, I can speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u378	No, Minister. What do you want? The Parliamentary spokesman from Potami, Mr Dannelis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u379	For just a minute, I'd like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u380	I'm not giving you a minute, Mr. Skourlet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u381	Mr. President, I'm sorry! Minister, I'm sorry! It's not personal for you. However, if each speaker is posted by ministers, the time will not be enough. Three interventions are made. You can't do that!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u382	Listen. You all know very well in this Chamber that since this morning it has been repeatedly pointed out that time will not be enough to meet the needs of the list on the basis of the speakers. So it is not possible, after two or one speaker, for a minister to want to intervene for one and two minutes. Pick up what you want from what you hear and when the time of your speech comes, you can respond, gladly, at that time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u383	Okay, that's what I want to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u384	No, when the time comes for your speech, you can gladly reply at that time. Mr. Dannelis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u385	To intervene in order to respond, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u386	The Minister must intervene, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u387	Immediately after that, may I have the floor, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u388	Mr. Loverdo, I'm talking to you personally. Or maybe I'll say it another way: Pumpkins, not here! Get out and play as much fun as you want! Okay? It's not personal. I am referring to the whole of your parliamentary group which just a few seconds ago did what they did! Please. Please. So respect both the speaker and the Bureau and the other Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u389	What have we done, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u390	What did we do, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u391	Mr. Kegeroglu, sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u392	Mr President, be careful when you refer to our parliamentary group!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u393	Mr. Kegeroglu, sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u394	Thank you so much!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u395	Sit down! Let go of that now! Now make impressions and try to provoke from nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u396	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u397	Please! You don't have the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u398	But I'm not asking him, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u399	You don't have the floor! Stop talking! Here, Mr. Dannelly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u400	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, is the debate and the vote of this bill with the Eurogroup on Monday and the agreement which we obviously all wish to have? Mrs Lagard said a few days ago 'nothing is aged, undil everything is aged'. This means that nothing closes unless there's an agreement complete for everything. And I fear very much that a few things have remained and are left to the Greek Government. Ladies and gentlemen, in our collective unconsciousness it is almost a post that the Greek parent loves pathologically and sacrifices himself for his children. Myth! Proof? The insurance bill we're talking about today. It is an unfair and in the medium term non-viable bill. It is a bill attempting to hide the timeless cynicism of the political system, as well as the cynicism of the customers of this system from the next generations. We are talking about young people who are already tested by poorly paid work and loose working relationships or immigration or, of course, even worse, unemployment. We are talking about young people who, as workers, are forced to pay increased taxes and insurance contributions that eliminate their already reduced income. These are young people who, at their most productive age, live daily in degrading the charity of their own people, namely, who in many cases receive higher pensions than the wages they receive when they work. This is a zero conscience of transgenic justice. He's always distinguished us, and today he sees us. This distorting lens by which past generations have chosen to see reality also emerge one of the paradoxes of post-populationism, a paradox that is to insist on supporting social conquests of the past, but which, when they are greedy and do not follow global economic and social developments, are turned into flagrant injustices. The demographic problem has become embodied throughout its dramatic development since 2000. The relationship between workers and retired persons has since been problematic with trends in serious deterioration. It's a matter of size. On the one hand, fewer workers and, on the other, the fragmentation of public wealth, public money. And of course, let's not forget that insurance and development, development, are going together. The current insurance system is a system which is neither law nor sustainable. It has cost the Greek taxpayer the last sixteen years about 200 billion euros. And to have a picture of the sizes, I would remind you that the total public debt is about EUR 300 billion. One of the causes of the insurer's malignancy is the fragmentation of the Greek society, which, of course, also appears in the insurance system. Groups of interests, groups of influence, guilds, were linked by their customer dependence by the party state. These are political dependencies that were based on political contributory relationships, where the respective ruling party divided public property as its feud. Image of this bankruptcy recipe is also the inexperienced bodies involved in the insurance, guards fighting each other indifferent to the future of others, caught in their narrow little interest, guardians living in a real superficial vulnerability to face up to the economic crisis as an attack of foreigners to the real people. They were seeing all over malicious forces conspiring, aiming at cutting incomes, pensions and jobs. We have never realised, however, that the financial derailment primarily through the insurance is the one that has led to the collapse of the financial derailment. The State was forced to contribute more and more to the deficit insurance funds, which were constantly accumulating and more pensioners. In 2009, the State’s contribution was 17 billion of the approximately 45 billion received from direct and indirect taxation. One of the paradoxes of the crisis is the fact that, despite cuts, pension expenditure has only been reduced. Although huge cuts were made in the Memorandum to large groups of retired people, pension expenditure remained consistently high, since the political system - in full interdependence with its customers - opted with graceful arrangements to increase early retirements instead of moving towards a substantial social security reform. Even in 2012, after so many reductions in pensions and after three years of cutbacks, our country spent 17.7% of GDP on pensions, with the most expensive pension system in Europe, which was also unfair. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that a change is needed, for example, and this example can no longer be based on overtaxing small and medium-sized incomes. Although the bill also contains tax provisions, there is no talk of combating large tax evasion and avoidance, it reveals the curiosity and convenience with which you are legislating. And yet, it is known that the fight against tax evasion is the best friend of the welfare state. You're hitting the usual scale again, because you really don't have any processed solutions, and you don't know how to apply what you were unequivocally promising just before. To make it clear first of all that tackling the crisis clearly goes through the insurance reform, but not with this reform that you have brought, or with the way you have proposed it. Unfortunately, the government killed the debate on insurance without even having started the real debate with society and with all the political forces. The plan that we are debating today actually attempts to maintain in the short term a bankrupt distribution of pensions, which would overly burden today's fewer, unfortunately, workers, while undermining their pension rights. Do you not understand that you are creating incentives for further tax evasion, since no one will want to pay contributions - which are even extremely burdensome - for an uncertain pension in the future, as well as for an entrepreneurship anti-incentive because of the excessive burden on labour costs, just as the previous ones so far have done? It's the oldly tested recipe, we're hiding the problem under the carpet again to clean it up for the next ones. This, of course, does not constitute a reform, it is called a transfer of responsibility and a perpetuation of misery to the biennial, which is of course constantly being blamed as bankrupt and will employ us tomorrow. A real insurance reform should have a look at the future. Mostly in the future. It is not an end in itself, let alone reform and anticipation of another transition stage that will be two years, three years, the world as a whole. It's a repetition of a failed recipe, what we're paying today. To have a stable solution, it is now more than obvious that a new social contract is needed, a new social agreement between the whole political system and society as a whole. In fact, however, we are afraid to speak with the Greek society that must be tested when questions are asked seriously. Society must now be ready to go through not only a collective recognition of errors, but also a collective commitment of responsibility. The fact that this debate with society has not taken place and we are therefore not voting for a sustainable insurance system, shows the absence of a vision. We are proposing a system of three pillars, as already applied in Scandinavia, Italy, in various other countries. The first pillar is paid by those working towards those who are currently retired. This first pillar includes a national prostitutional pension for all, supplemented by a distribution pension, depending on each other's names. The second pillar will consist of professional funds supplementing the main pension, through real investments in which they themselves will invest, and their profits will be reinstated to their insured persons. And the third pillar is mainly based on private insurance with absolute recompense. All those who have the opportunity to invest in an individual pension scheme, part of their income, are, of course, eligible for tax incentives, so that they also help to save nationally. We must allow for flexibility, especially for free professionals and the self-employed, in terms of the level of the contribution they pay. Only in this way, ladies and gentlemen, will we motivate young people to carry out their business plan, which will be the one that will get them out of unemployment. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you have come to power by supporting very much the generation that is being condemned by this bill, a generation that is trapped in a debt crisis that undermines its future and makes a dramatic intergenerational imbalance visible. Redistribution of income, ladies and gentlemen, you are doing through the tax system, not through the insurance system. Non-remuneration insurance is not meant. Of course, we need to make it clear that it is another welfare and other insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u401	Thank you, Mr. Dannelly. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Mardas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u402	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is a debate today on the sustainability of our insurance system. So far, we have had pension cuts and from the result, it is considered that what has been implemented did not lead to a sustainable system. A system is being pursued and with the elements we have seen it can be sustainable. We must not forget the past and we must at some point see what those elements have led us to the point where we arrived. Mistakes have been made, many mistakes and I will come to one, which perhaps for the first time was discussed here in another approach in December at the time of the budget. It was the PSI. And what was that PSI really? What was the savings made in debt terms in Greece? There, with reference to a report by the Bank of Greece which is not the only one - there are other elements of this - I said that the net haircut was 52.1 billion and not 137,9 together with the debt rescheduling, which was heard. There have been various verbal extremities, which I do not care about, and I did not reply at the time, it has just been heard that we do not know how to read the various elements that are made public. Seven days later, the International Monetary Fund, in its annual report, said that the restructuring of Greece's debt, when it happened and not when it was decided, was not just too little, too little. In fact, in other words, what we said at the time and what was written by the Bank of Greece and various other analysts are confirmed. The question is: And they don't know how to read? So, nobody knows how to read numbers? Let's see exactly what happened. I am, of course, in favour of the part of the International Monetary Fund report. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Dimitrios Mardas, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] From there on a dialogue has begun with written texts which I can tell you are of interest. I am making two elements of this dialogue, where each party was trying to prove whether he was right and how right he was. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Dimitrios Mardas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The question is that, at the end of this dialogue and with the questions we raised at the time, we did not get an answer from those supporters who consider that the haircut was about 137 billion dollars. Of course, the question that arises after we leave the tree and see the forest is this: Who has finally benefited from all that process? This is the question raised in the last article, which I published as a result of a reply from previous articles, which I can say, of interest, because they were trying to establish an opinion, but which the International Monetary Fund had also shot down. And it is not, of course, that the reports are being dismantled, but that is the results we have. Our debt, as you know, in nominal terms and as a percentage of GDP has increased since then and then we have finally reached a point to see that this PSI of 137 billion was in fact nonexistent. In conclusion, I would like to refer to another technical point, which has been repeatedly heard, that according to the method of purely present value the whole project has been a successful project. I will not involve you with technical analyses and with what exactly this method of net present value is. Just, for anyone who wants, I submit another document, to which you can see how this method of net present value works. Of course, it's not about financials. It's from my book, which refers to public finances. But the guy, mathematical formula and logic are exactly the same. You can read to understand what this method means. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Dimitrios Mardas, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Here, we have this methodological mistake. Firstly, a guy does not lead to successful policies. Let's have that right in our minds. And when a guy is based on cases which can be violated, then even more so any success in politics is being questioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u403	Mr. Theonas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u404	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a little comment on the start we had this morning and the controversy surrounding the unconstitutionality of the draft law, which was mainly due to the insurance of different categories of workers, public and private workers, on the same insurance fund. Things have also been said in Parliament that have been very heavy and highly hybrid and which I believe are not honouring our debate and the level of dialogue to be held. But here I have one question: why did the fellow Members who raised this issue leave my fellow Member, my apologies to Giannis Brutsis, who, as Minister of Labour, had young civil servants insured in IKA? So the IKA at the moment - I tell you with full responsibility - is insured in the public sector and private sector employees. This is a violation and criminal responsibility, as at some point threatened, for the people who legislate and create such compositions of the insured in insurance funds. I think he was left uncovered by Yiannis. I think it needs to be covered, because man didn't commit any crime. I think it should also be approved by this bill and it is right. The second point I would like to raise is this: I, colleagues and colleagues, every time I watch - and I think a lot of people know that I am very consistent in monitoring the procedures of our Parliament, our Parliament - I am most disappointed that the level of the political speech does not honor us as persons or, above all, as parliamentarians. Here the curse is starring, the vulgar expressions are protagonists at the expense of one and the other. I think that tactics are unacceptable and we are not honoured at all and at some point a barrier must also be introduced. I would like to refer to the fact that yesterday I heard a man who I very much appreciate and respect him, Geremoni Yakoumato, who speaks critically and a little negatively about the settings of a hundred doses. As a man who was the commander of the IKA, I would first like to assure Mr Yakumato, but also the House itself, that this measure was one of the bests ever taken in our country, because it gave deep breath to all the funds. I'll only tell you, I won't confuse you with a lot of numbers. The total amount declared for regulation, as a whole from all funds, was close to EUR 6 billion. He gave deep breath to the funds, but he also gave breath to the debtors themselves, because it was a process that helped them to get rid of their debts and I think that is very important to everyone who owes them. Now, the Senate has asked to be abolished. I say our lenders are asking for it to be abolished. By addressing the Ministers and the Ministers of Labour and Finance, what I would like to stress is that at the moment the arrangements that have been made and have been interrupted because, especially for the debts to be owed to the funds, the debtor has not paid a single instalment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u405	That's what Yakumato said yesterday. I was there, too. Exactly what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u406	If he said so, I fully agree and I think that this must be done because it serves. I say to you: These billions how and when will they be paid if this arrangement does not really help the world? Finally, there has been too many constitutionalists here today in our debate, a number of constitutionalists have emerged, but they also do not respect the political reason that must be political and not abusive. In any case, we will forgive them. In the two minutes that I have to say two words about the professional funds, ladies and gentlemen, and colleagues. If you take and read the 2002 Commission Directive, you will see that it puts a lot of things. In my view, and that is why I am particularly concerned about the fact that the three-phase system which was first tested in Chile, Pinochet, opens the way, not only the doors but also the windows, to go to private insurance. This is because they promote the system of capitalisation for the performance of supplementary pensions, which is mainly where this process is developing. Second, if you want, let's see the conditions that have been shaped. In 1994, the then government of Constantine Mitsotakis took ideas from the Delore White Paper and passed flexible employment, parttime employment and informal forms of employment into Greek Labour law. If in these circumstances the worker will need eighty - 100 years to get a pension, do you realize that private insurance companies, which are already intervening today, will be able to go to the insured worker, the employee, to say to him: 'How much do you pay for the month?' "So much" "Pay me so much a month and in ten to fifteen years, you'll take this, that and that." [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll need a second and I'll be done, Mr. President. So he will be taken from the public insurance system, which we must insist is public, universal and redistributive and that promotes the bill we are discussing. We must therefore support it, because otherwise the road to private insurance will be opened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u407	Mr Tsiaras has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u408	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, if I have to make a comment on the honourable Member who has just arrived at the Step, I will say that there is indeed a very serious and registered problem in the operation of the Greek Parliament, which concerns the way in which colleagues are expressed, but also in general the parliamentary debate is being held. However, we must point out that this problem has obviously begun to take enormous proportions in recent years, during this parliamentary term. So if we must look for responsibilities and, possibly, for the good reason to change this bad reality, we must first of all make a call to the Bureau, Mr President, you will allow me - but also to the ministers present and, more generally, to do so, to hold a dialogue in this Chamber, but on the contrary, in a way that will obviously be a pedagogical example for society, to stand with dignity in any possible political confrontation and political controversy. I would like to begin by focusing on the circumvention of parliamentary procedures, the spirit and the letter of Parliament's Rules of Procedure by the government majority, in order to bring the debate on the insurance bill into the weekend. I personally placed myself on this subject in the Conference of Presidents. The question, moreover, is a burden on the majority in the House and on the Conference of Presidents, which is once again undermining Parliament's institution in the government's pursuits. As far as we are concerned, the New Democracy, I assure you that it did not surprise us. But it surprised the Greek society, which once again saw its hopes frustrated by an unacceptable legislative spirit. Minister, I will avoid temptation to refer to the results of the negotiation of your Government, a failed consultation with the Institutions, which loaded on the backs of the Greeks in 15 months of EUR 12.5 billion new taxes and new measures, namely EUR 8.5 billion more than you said last October. Of course, you can say anything, but the numbers in this case I think they are undeniable witnesses. Of course, I will also avoid the temptation to lay down responsibilities for the gap between the 300 million euro cuts envisaged in the New Democracy proportional study - Mr Brutsis recalls that - up to the 3 billion euro cuts that you call a proportionate study - this projection, however, which you have literally brought to the'more than five' Parliament. I have listened very carefully to the Minister and the majority rapporteur, but even to the Prime Minister himself, in which he spoke about insurance, referring to it as a bill, a piece of legislation, which will introduce justice into our insurance system. Do you really believe that there can be justice in the distribution of poverty? We all know very well that this bill extends and spreads poverty to all, to the officials, to the employees, to the selfemployed, to the self-employed, to the young scientists, to the farmers and is breaking down the last social security net for the weaker, in fact slaughtering widow’s pensions, to handicapped pensions and, of course, to family allowances. Ladies and gentlemen, the Congress's insurance bill is a monument of political inconsistency because it undoes all that the Prime Minister has promised the farmers himself and comes to put both hands deep in the pocket of Greek farmers. Those who do not take them from the left pocket with the tax rates, take them multiples from the right by launching insurance contributions, contributions that gradually climb over time at 20% of their income. You are all aware of what this burden entails, especially for the low agricultural incomes where the tax burden - now everyone knows - is calculated not in the real way, but with the so-called imputable income of farmers. With increases of 272% in insurance contributions, with the land of farmers promised and the status of red loans, the government does not simply impair Greek farmers, but actually turn them into columns on their own land. It breaks down in one night not only the insurance charges of farmers, but also the insurance body itself - the support of Greek farms, the OGA. It brings together, at the same time, those small businesses in the region operating in villages and towns with less than two thousand people insured - we know - with a great effort from all the previous governments to date in the OGA, as it now obliges them to bear the enormous burdens of imputable income. The insurance system, Minister, for which I am proud to say that it will devastate the Greek region. We all have to understand that, ladies and gentlemen, and it will be a consequence that we will experience - I believe - all in the time of our next lifetime. Ladies and gentlemen, the Insurance Bill of SYRIZA - ANEL comes to put both hands deep in the pocket of scientists, young and old, the most productive and hopeful part of Greek society. What does not take with the tax rates from the left pocket - I insist - takes them multiplely from the right. Even the seemingly favourable arrangements for contributions for a five-year period to young scientists become a joke as they have been presented, because they are being returned to the state at the end of insurance and, in any case, strongly or numerically adapted, as the Minister likes to say. Since all of this has a very specific one - if you like - consequence in the whole of Greek society - many of the previous speakers have mentioned it - I must point out to you that what you have been evangelized and which was hopeful, you have managed to turn it into despair for the entire Greek society. We are voting against this bill, not only because it imposes unfair burdens on all citizens. We are voting against it because it is ineffective because it leads to the break-up of generations and not to solidarity, as you think it is undeveloping and counterproductive, because it does not reform the insurance system, but deregulation it completely, because it takes away the workers and employers - you will see it in the near future - in avoidance of tax evasion and tax evasion, because it will lead to legal deficits in new deficits, new 'black holes' and probably in the end to a new painful insurance. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, the candy that you are stirring up is allegedly the bad past, you have to understand that it has melted, it is over. You, too, have your own past in governance, a past of a 15-month-old catastrophic governance that multiplys deadlocks and sufferings for citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u409	Mr. Chiara, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u410	I shall conclude, Mr President. You have managed in fifteen months to dismantle almost all the hopes of the Greek people, the thousands of representatives of productive Greece, the wide alliance of established civil servants who defend a modern and productive public sector, the creative forces of the country, the healthy entrepreneurship, the private sector that give the ultimate battle for survival and which is finally the only "cow" that can produce milk for even today undefeased public. We have one hope: Get out of here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u411	Mr. Chiara, please, you'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u412	I say this because the only way to tackle this reality is now in the absolute crisis of Greek citizens and Greek society. If we want to look forward to the real upsurge and development of our country, you know that too, ladies and gentlemen, that it will not go through this road and through these choices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u413	Mr Karathanasopoulos has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u414	Thank you, Mr President. Starting with his speech, the Minister of Labour, Mr. Katrugalos, he proudly stated that this bill promotes a reform section. That's right. It is, in fact, promoting a reformist section. Who's that? It is the eruption and demolition of the social character of the insurance. In other words, it is the completion of the work that New Democracy and PASOK had left in the middle of a project launched since the beginning of the 1990s, in order to achieve the strategic aim against the bourgeoisie. Which one? For a worker very cheap without structured labour and insurance rights and because the labour market the previous governments had led her to the jungle, today, you came to destroy the social security system. In fact, you have not only gone to demolish the social security system, but you are also making use of all the arguments of destruction used by your supposed political opponents. Did the Minister come out without a word - and Mr Mardas repeated it - and what did he say? That two-thirds, he says, of debt is about funding social security. Aren't you ashamed? Did the state debt do it to the insurance funds and pensioners? Is this where you arrived? To say these things? What those in the past few years have said to get off with social security, now you're saying it yourself? So, do you repeat their argument in this Chamber? Of course, it makes sense to repeat their arguments once your works are carried out. What did you do? You are converting the pension to an advance allowance. National pension you call it now. And not only that, but you are moving towards the logic of recompense, that is, the individualisation of the social security system and its capitalisation. For this very reason, you are seeking to support in every way the insurance of a capitalist nature which is the occupational insurance funds and private insurance companies. In other words, the private pillar of the insurance of the trixide system that I am reverently applying here as well. With this bill, you are now actually abolishing State participation, abolishing the tripartite participation, the tripartite financing of the insurance system, i.e. State involvement. You are now going to increase working life so that someone can get the lowest or national pension from the age of 15 to the age of twenty. In what circumstances? These labour markets where, in order to put a badge, do you have a bar in Koroni, where there is 25% official unemployment, black and uninsured work? When will a young man be 20 years old, twenty-five years old? How long does it take? Have you calculated? Never! It must live three lives in order to be able to fill these marks and, in fact, under the pretext of unemployment, continue to go further. You increase contributions, you reduce pensions, you calculate the pension throughout the working life that this method of calculation leads to the declining rate of replacement and comes out without shame and out of the Minister's gum and says that the rate of replacement will be increased. But your next-door minister, Mr. Chakalotos, last night sent a letter to his counterparts. What does it say in this letter, as it was published at least? It says that "beyond everything we have done, we are moving on to the reform of the insurance system, offering the same rules for all pensioners and reducing the rates of supplementation". Mr. Chakalotos writes it in his letter. Which one of you is telling you the truth? I guess Mr. Chakalotos is telling the truth. That's very reasonable. So that logic is the definition of political opportunism. Yesterday's speech by the Prime Minister to the parliamentary group was the result of political opportunism, because it was full of lies. What, for example, did Mr. Tsipras say? "We were committed in September to protecting pensions and wages." You said about pensions and salaries a little while ago. So the first place of the borrowers. In the same letter what does Mr. Chakalotos say a little bit further? What does he claim to the partners toward his counterparts? It says that the latter provisions include opening up the market as a whole to existing loans, with the exception of some temporary protection of loans relating to the first residence. So you're protecting her first residence? With these "temporary"? So, with this logic, you are escalating the anti-popular attack. This nature of your class policy is also seen in the tax package, Mr Ministers. Of course, this is a tax package that was not total. Of the 5.6 billion, 1.8 billion was insurance and 3.6 billion were tax measures. Now bring in a piece of this 3.6 billion. I am not referring to the measures - 'cava'. I am talking about the measures you need to implement, which do not include the most anti-popular measures relating to indirect taxation, the increase in the VAT rate to 24%, as has been written, the increase in excise duty on petrol, the increase in excise duty on natural gas, only on people's consumption, because you accepted an amendment of night by SYRIZA Members to exempt industrialists from taxation on gas. That's the class character. Who, really, will pay these 3.6 billion tax measures? People's strata will pay for it. A redistribution between the people’s families has been making and adding new financial burdens to what New Democracy and PASOK had brought in in previous years. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. From this point of view, and through the reduction of tax exemptions at an even lower level - and EUR 650 to have one, you will pay a tax - but also through the amendment you have tabled, which increases the rate for personal companies, from 26% today to 29% for those who had income from such enterprises up to EUR 50,000 and reduces taxation to those who had more than EUR 50,000, which was 33%, it is clear that your policy is classic. Without shame yesterday, Mr Tsipras said - and the SYRIZA rapporteur reiterated it today - that in thousands of cases and with incomes up to EUR 22 000, tax burden is too small and does not exceed an average of EUR 100.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u415	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u416	I shall conclude, Mr President. Is it a tax burden that comes to be added to the previous tax measures and you claim that this tax burden is a small one? Instead of exempting the people's family from the tax burden and trying, fighting to pay the capital, you have left the shipowners in tax, the remaining business groups as well, the plan that Mr Stathakis gave in the consultation on development law provides for a stable tax system and new tax benefits for entrepreneurs, lower rates for new investment, foreign and domestic. From this point of view, Mr President, to conclude that, of course, New Democracy and PASOK are a very easy opponent. But why would the people choose between Scylla and Harry? Who makes the greatest catastrophe in satisfying people's needs? We say that the needs of the people must be placed at the centre. They must be opposed and their claim must be satisfied. This can be done today by organising the struggle for more general ruptures, changes and overthrows, what is needed today for the working class and other people's incomes. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u417	Mr. Lykoudis from Potami has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u418	Ladies and gentlemen, every time we have a big debate in this House, which, by object, extends to more general political remarks, crises, assessments, even small-eyed ones, I always feel that we are still living a built dream in some of our own Nefelokkinias - remember her? - in some crib nest in the clouds, turning the back on the pedestrian reality, not because we don't know it, but because we don't want to face it in the eye. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, the collapse and denial came with the certainty of a natural phenomenon. A number of wicked Pierres appeared as institutions of hope and propaganda of a new state, which only in their imagination existed, portrayers, unfortunately, of political lies, to be revealed and proved quickly, before a elite spoke, as opportunists, who, while supposedly coming to save others, worked systematically only for their own party benefit and their own status. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the tax side of the bill is concerned, since I do not have the time to go into detailed analyses, I just need to stress that every time the laudable tough negotiations are being promoted, taxes are being increased. This is a real legal robbery, when, for example, free professionals, scientists and farmers are invited to pay taxes and contributions 55% of their income. Our class apostates are glorified by the destruction of small and medium-sized classes, while the poor become even poorer, and society is impoverished by their own responsibility. Instead of equal treatment, destruction and vicious circles, these are, among other things, the achievements of the government which, unfortunately, identified its own failure to do so with the failure of the left-wing policy. I am speaking from a point of view that I think a lot of people understand that it is my personal. He identified the failure of SYRIZA with the failure of left policy and this is historically unfair, extremely unfair to the value and visions of the Left. Ladies and gentlemen, we are still living and enjoying our myths in the long run. Myth first and operative: The memorials have created the crisis, and it is true - we have said it a hundred times - just the opposite. Financial derailment, with the blessings of everyone in conditions of the global economic crisis, has brought the memorials. We need to realize the decisive size of both our own mistakes and our responsibilities. Only then will we stop begging and begging, like today. Only self-criticism and self-awareness will lead us to recover the lost national dignity. Myth, second clear and exemplary: Did the crisis and the damn memorial lead the insurance to today's dead ends or was the insurance a decisive factor in the crisis? Ladies and gentlemen, you cannot unfortunately understand that it is another thing that most of the necessary insurance reform is ever needed at this place and another thing at the transitional stages of the arrangements. You bring in transitional insurance arrangements which, even though they, could well be discussed and well-meaning if they were not completely deadlocked, ineffective and criminal for the generations that come. Who are we kidding? Ladies and gentlemen, when will the fact that the cumulative deficits and total public expenditure on insurance amounted to only 80% to 83% of aggregate government deficits in 2006-2009, that the cumulative deficits of insurance covered by state funding, from the State budget, represented around 83% of the increase in public debt in the period 2000-2009, that in other words, the insurance is responsible for more than two thirds of the surplus debt that led us to the crisis and to substantial bankruptcy, that before the crisis the pension replacement rate was 100% or 110% or more? How many critics were raised in and out of it? How many were there disturbing about these relentless but welcome customer practices, under the applause and auctioning of the opposition at the time - I am speaking as a whole of a political world that tolerated this crime, because it was a crime - the trade unions, the 'family' funds, etc. - and other bodies not in the number of them? How many were willing to hear the few voices that in vain warned of the upcoming deadlocks? Even within the time of the crisis, namely in the period 2008-2015, five hundred and fifty thousand people were retired, while another three hundred thousand have made their applications and have been in queue for years. Total: eight hundred fifty thousand in just eight years. What is the average retirement age of these people? Ladies and gentlemen, there is no point in making more evidence. Just a system where wages represent 25% of GDP and pensions by 16% to 16.5%; a system that leads to wages has fallen by 27%, while the amount of pensions has increased by 13%, a system where the ratio of workers and pensioners from 1/77 in 2000 reached 1/27 in 2013 simply such a system has long since ceased to be sustainable. That is why we have rightly described this draft law as an anachronistic, inappropriate and improper. It is nothing but a spasm reaction to cover the budget gap. The regulations are intended only to serve some political clientele in the knowledge that the main pensions are also to be reduced, that is to say, to coincide with a so-called political cycle. This is the obvious micro-party calculations of all of you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, which you would give, by tearing the memorials, the thirteenth pension. Ladies and gentlemen, our debate has a huge gap. There is a great absence in this Chamber. We are discussing and deciding in the absence of it. These are the new generations, the working people and the unemployed, and those who are planning frustrated and discouraged to leave the country in which they were born and raised to seek their chances and luck elsewhere. Ladies and gentlemen, I firmly believe that only collective self-awareness will lead us to collective responsibility. We need a 15- to twenty-year-old solution. It has been said that the circulation of trust is preferable to the circulation of money. This government has not only reduced the circulation of money, but, unfortunately, I think, it is now lacking in the confidence of the citizens. It's a government unreliable. The image of the bill, in two words - and that is why I will vote against it - is a robbery of taxation and a balance without a future in insurance. We must finish, ladies and gentlemen, with the misunderstandings, we must abandon the demagogy and the manipulation of lie, so that we do not mourn more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u419	Thank you, Mr. Lykoudi. Mr Katsiantonis from the Centroon Union has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u420	Ladies and gentlemen, it is really a oxymomile to see the people who two years ago moved the world to strike mobilisations, nowadays targeted at anti-grass measures. At least, I hope, even at this very last moment, that people understand that demagogy and populism of the past must finally end in this country, because there are simply no easy solutions. Most politicians and MPs, unfortunately, have built careers, promising easy solutions. Therefore, instead of following the path of reforms, as the Centro Association has been asking for since the first day that we entered the House, we are witnessing the rescue of old-fashioned communism. The bill you urgently table in the House to prevent international developments protects loved children of the system, for example those who receive multiple pensions of up to EUR 3,000 per month, those who are entitled to personal differences and privileged treatment. Is it true, who, let's say, an OAU insured person, or TEBE, knows what a personal difference this is? Have you ever tried explaining it to him? Which one of them even knows what the one is? What kind of seasonal worker in the building industry can he understand why a fifty-five-year-old retired IKO gets around EUR 2,000 a month? Can you look him in the eye and tell him that this seasonal worker, when he barely fills 15 years of service, will only receive a national pension of EUR 384 a month? We even saw the President of Parliament go up on this Step here and argue that the former MPs, who were retired before 2012, cannot live with the pension they are going to receive. So don't cut them off. If they can't live with the pension they get, someone who takes only one third of them, how can he live? Does he, in general, have the person who gets the national pension less needs? After all, because the former Members of Parliament and, in general, the former Members of Parliament cannot live, since you have guaranteed them the minimum guaranteed national pension, since you are telling us that this pension is sufficient to guarantee the survival of citizens. Let them take the 384 euros if they have completed twenty years of political service. We, as the Central Association, claim that the former Members of Parliament, either nomadic or mayors, or whatever concerns a heresy public office, should not receive any pension based on their political service, because it is simply a function and not a profession. Also, shame and challenge for everyone is to provide in the insurance bill multiple pensioners of 3,000 euros. It's a challenge above all for those of whom you want to get contributions. I remind you of the distribution of our pension system, that is, the current workers are paying those who are currently in retirement. How, then, will you convince a small and medium-sized businessman to pay the huge contributions of TEVE 20% on their net income? How are you going to convince someone who maintains a family business that you will have to reduce their supermarket shopping to receive a multiple pension of EUR 3,000 a former ECHO official? If this is not a pathetic cause of unreliability, then what is it? Deep down, you know the evil you've done to society. As DIMAR's colleague said earlier, you closed the National Garden yesterday, as you are afraid of a diversion, and indeed with the media closed down. One question I would like to ask: do you want to convert the National Garden to "Kasian" again? Mr Katrugalos, who has just left, said that the insurance and tax reform burdens the free professional of EUR 25,000 per year and for all other cases, there is a relief for anyone under 25 000 euros. The available income, that is, living in his pocket is higher. But do you not understand, gentlemen, that unemployment will only be reduced when the small and medium-sized enterprises make more money? You themselves accept that a private person who makes more than EUR 25,000 is the loser of the new insurance bill. This man, however, who you are targeting today, would be the one who would open up jobs. Now not only will it not open up jobs, not only will it not increase the State's revenue through insurance contributions, but it will also fire people, because its account is simply not coming out. With percentage trade fees, with 100% tax advances, with a monstrous tax rate of 45% on high incomes, man in his first year of operation is "inside". Not only will he have no room for recruitment, but he will not be able to make a living for his family. This same man, if he does not declare 2 000 euros in his tax declaration, to be able, for example, to pay for his children's education, you will call him "fortunately", you will pass him through and send him personal control to shut down his business. We, as a Centro Association, support the people they produce, whether they are in the public or in the private sector. But we do not tolerate continuing with the pathogens of the past and say that within the current bill you put the country in a multi-annual plaster and you mortgage the future of our children. So you will not find us allies in this unacceptable direction. We are voting against in principle and we will be placed in the articles tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u421	Mr Theocharis has the floor as an Independent MEP.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u422	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, someone needs to tell you that the bill is yours. I heard Mrs Gara before, and I didn't believe in my ears. He totally degraded it. He talked about the young, the freelance professionals. He collapsed. Shouldn't someone tell you it's your bill? Since you can't support it, do at least what the political cowards, the ANELs, don't dare get up to talking. Not one has been written to speak by the ANELs, because they cannot support it. But they'll vote. The Greek people will reward their political cowardice by voting for the destruction they bring. We have the bill in front of us that will lead to your fall. Fortunately! You have to go. This bill completes the crime against the weak, to the detriment of Greece, at the expense of the hope of those who believed you. 29% is the new episode in the horror movie you produce. Anyone with a trace of dignity, a trace of sensitivity, a trace of empathy, cannot vote for this bill. I won't. I owe it to my conscience. I owe it to the citizens who have voted for me. I owe it, above all, to the new generations who still have no right to vote. The insurance you bring to us - we are told by the studies presented by Mr Katrugalos himself to the committee - does not solve the problem. The expenditure, but also the subsidies from the State budget, will continue to increase to an absolute figure and will only decrease as a percentage of GDP from 2017 onwards. But that's a lie, too. With a reduction - because you do not say it directly - we see the increase in GDP that you expect, which you have put into your calculations. It is 3.3% for 2017, 4.1% for 2018 and 4.2% for 2019. I would remind you that just a few days ago the European Commission with spring estimates spoke of 2.7% increase for 2017. We are therefore talking about a conscious misled by the people. You must leave immediately. You insist on bringing in an insurance that the people do not want. First, public. I mean, my pension in the same bucket as your mistress. No, gentlemen of the government, I won't. I prefer it not to be my pension in the hands of politicians. That's what the citizens say. The retirement of the world has always lost, because waste and corruption have always been defeated. The system should be isolated from the state budget and the political establishment. Secondly, it's unfair and unequal. Other pensions will be paid by the current pensioners, the next one. Other contributions will be made by today's workers, greater than by the previous ones. No, gentlemen of the government, I won't. I prefer justice. Thirdly, it's the distribution that you call us redistributive, that is my money you steal and don't go to my pension. They go into a black hole to get the early retired and the favored. No, gentlemen of the government, I won't. I prefer black work. The only right thing you're doing is unification of the funds. Those who oppose you are only thinking about their customers. Bring a hole in the water. You grow the holes and you will need a new insurance before 2018. That's why I won't vote for it. That's why you need to leave right now, before it's too late for the country. In tax you do the same: smuggling without logic. One example is enough. Reinstate the institution of the different tax rate depending on the children. You give 50 euros for the first child, even the one who makes 1 million euros. When are you going to find out? Modern social policy do with benefits. Yes, duty-free changes depending on children, another without children and another with children. Give EUR 50 and more to an increase in the child benefit and it will cost you the same - over EUR 50 will cost you - and it will take this allowance and the one who makes EUR 5,000 that now gets nothing from your tax. In other words, you do not even make a proper policy in line with your stated objectives. You must leave immediately and not come back. Farmers forget tax-free subsidies. You're taxing from the first euro. Your next victim will be civil servants. The spring report has revealed to us that you agreed to a reduction in the wages paid to civil servants. But that won't be enough. When you bring new deficits - and bring new deficits, VAT is already off target by EUR 156 million in the first quarter - you will no longer increase taxes. Then you'll fire civil servants. Let me say it again. Others may do so by ideology, you will do so by incapacity. You'll cry as you do, according to Mr. Spirtzi's model. Sure. You won't, but you will. You'll fire civil servants or you won't have money to pay them and leave them at God's mercy. You're the main enemies of civil servants now. That's why your friends from abroad are supporting you, so you can break this taboo in the country as well. You laughed at the antimony, buried their debt cut, humiliated the election promises, smuggled the concept of the Left. There's one thing left, and then they'll throw you out: to fire civil servants. You'll do it. You need to leave as long as it's time you didn't come back again. I shall dare and say, even if I am the only politician who says so: the International Monetary Fund is today with the Greek people. He asks you to put them with your clients, civil servants and retired people, as he asked previous people to do with their own customers, farmers and uniforms, and before with the trade unionists for work. It also calls on Europeans to curb the debt. You don't want to mess with your customers like the previous ones didn't want to. So go into political negotiation. But then Merkel and Holland put their own political sensitivities "not in debt haircuts, not now, I have elections, since 2017 we will discuss" etc. We are told again by Mr Siomple and by Grexit again at the table: nine in favour of them, one in favour of us. One in ten, but also one not in favour of the country, but in favour of the philosophical political system. This is your proud political negotiation. You are a victory of the darkness, of the political pheasantness toward the light of the interests of the country and of the citizens. But you're, I'm sure, temporary victory. You're leaving, and I hope you don't come back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u423	With Mr. Theocharis, the first circle of speakers has been completed. Before going to the second circle of speakers, which begins with Mr Santorinios, I would like to inform you that in Stepma Mrs Kefaliannis will follow and the Minister of Finance Mr Tsakalotos will continue. Mrs Pappigiga has already asked for the floor, and after Mrs Pappigiga, the Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, Mr Karras, will speak. Mr. Santorinier, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u424	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, I should like to start with something I would not begin with. Mr Theocharis, even in the amendment that has been tabled, the tax-free is up to 20,000. Then there's no tax free. I don't know if you've gotten it. You were Secretary General of Public Income. Let's go down. So we are discussing today the bill written by the Greek Government on insurance and tax reform under the summer agreement. It's a bill that has caused reactions. It's true. But you will allow me to say that, to a large extent, they are reactions to a system of cosmics that had become accustomed to in the years of the crisis and also to post-multi-policy years to send the account to ordinary mortgages, wage earners, pensioners, small and medium-sized enterprises. It is a bill that many of you in here said that it is a unilateral energy and you were even happy because you couldn't believe that the SYRIZA - ANEL government would finally be able to protect low and middle incomes without the institutions blocking it. Because you were used to sending the bills, translating them, and then voting on them. You cannot understand what the terms 'negotiation' and red lines mean. Besides, it brings you red allergy. I forgot about that. Well, we are here today to vote on two reforms, but at their core they have common features: the redistribution, the protection of low and medium-income incomes, social justice. Insurance reform is also characterised by the feature of the intergenerational justice and equality of all, without patronages and pitfalls, without favoured and unjustified. It is likely that we have not resorted to the easy way of a horizontal pension cut, the twelfth if I'm not mistaken - is it not? - as you did, 11 times in previous years. Obviously, it seems incomprehensible that in the insurance system everyone must contribute according to their real economic potential. You cannot understand, for example, that an engineer, a colleague of mine, who, because of your own policies, cannot have a decent income, so far has not been able to pay the contributions that a few, once again engineers, paid with much greater incomes easily. Perhaps these few, the privileged, and the officials of the New Democracy ministerial office are threatening us today that we will be removed from the TEU. We inform them that we were defending and defending these engineers that the governments of PASOK and New Democracy have led to tolerance. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, the debts to the insurance funds of the self-employed have been disbursed, because everyone has to pay the same premium regardless of the level of their income. With the proposed arrangements, my fellow engineers who have seen their income in recent years nullified have now been able to pay significantly less contributions, especially for incomes of between 7 000 and 13 000, and for incomes above them, the discount is reduced by 1% for each additional EUR 1,000 net income. As a result, it is the vast majority of scientists and free professionals are called upon to pay less insurance contributions. Really, ladies and gentlemen, how many engineers do you think have been left with a net income of over EUR 20,000? The recession you caused in the country first hit the construction industry's workers. With your policies, you have led young fellow engineers to beg for a piece of bread in the worst form of flexible work that you have done in the middle ages of employment. These engineers and, in general, - within introductory - "freel professionals" scientists defend today's bill with the introduction of the employer's obligation to pay employers' contributions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u425	Double.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u426	Why? All right, all right. Also taxly, free professionals, with a net income of less than EUR 32 000, minus the insurance contributions, which you forget strangely - have not understood why - they will be asked to pay a clearly lower sum of taxes. It is characteristic that 92% of taxpayers with income from business only will pay less tax. The conclusion from what I have said is that, with the double reform that we are proposing today, we are trying to transfer the insurance and taxation burdens from the low and medium-income incomes to the high incomes, which have been unsatisfactory for so many years. Ladies and gentlemen, we have an insurance system which has not been brought to ruin now. It's come from the sea loans you gave your friends. Do you remember them? It ended up with the gambling on the stock exchange, when you had the funds gamble with the ordinary citizens, when the Prime Minister and the ministers were calling us to play on the stock market. It was occupied by the structured bonds and accepted the charismatic shot by the destructive PSI of 13 billion. This insurance system was not sustainable, and this is because the policies pursued in recent years have been policies that have led to unemployment from 12% to 25%. You brought unemployment to 25% with your policies. Since I do not have much time, and I do not want to abuse him, I would like to refer to two important regulations that exist within this bill, which have both been passed on to the changeover. The first is to combat tax evasion and black work. It is the provision for the objective determination of the insurance contributions to be paid by each undertaking on the basis of the volume and intensity of work. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The second, which existed inside the n. 3863/2010, but it was never implemented because the joint ministerial decisions were not taken, it is as follows: At last, wages must be paid electronically throughout the private sector. I believe that this is a measure which will help reduce black and uninsured work, but also to combat the phenomenon of not paying workers by many businesses. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that you and the systemic instruments are making friendly efforts, which is why you are also saddened that these days are closed - but do not worry, tomorrow, they will open up - to convince the employees, the pensioners and the small and medium-sized enterprises that the measures we propose are unpopular. However, you can be sure that once they have been implemented, citizens will understand your political fraud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u427	Mrs. Kefaliannis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u428	Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in a rain of amendments which create a chaotic parliamentary situation in a process that is downgrading - with your responsibility - even more so our parliamentaryism, the draft law on the single social security system, the reform of the insurance and pension system, as well as the rules on income taxation. This is a real fiscal looting, a chaotic stitching of unfair tax measures, a slogan of direct or indirect taxes, which create an unprecedented suffocating fiscal framework that strangles Greek citizens and unfortunately gives the charismatic shot at the middle class and the Greek households. It is an insurance system that reduces public expenditure on pensions by EUR 1.2 billion. The EUR 855 million will come from cuts in the main pensions, while the remaining EUR 385 million will come from cuts in supplementary pensions. These figures are the only response to the propaganda hearings of the relevant Minister and Prime Minister that pensions are supposedly not cut. From the pre-election promise of the thirteenth pension we have passed the unfair and incomplete reform of the insurance system, essentially in the creation of a second parallel tax system with a redistributive character, whose only purpose is to pave budgetary holes. No problem is solved and it is obviously not a reform, because it is not a reform, and I do not believe that it is a reform of the CSCE for three hundred thousand low-wage pensioners or, of course, the weakening of vulnerable groups by reducing the pensions for widows and invalidity. That is why, in a very short time, we will be called again and in even more difficult conditions to deal with the huge issue of our insurance system. Then things will be worse. The price of populism, the price of your own weakness will be unbearable for all. Your responsibility for the impasse of the insurance system, whether as a opposition in previous years and your recital populism, which made any attempt to reform almost impossible, or today as a government, is enormous, is of historic importance and is crucial to the tide in which we are in. Ladies and gentlemen, the multi-project leads with mathematical accuracy to the break-up of generations and has nothing to do with solidarity and social justice. The very opposite, in fact. It gives rise to injustices for today's workers and for tomorrow's pensioners, as it provides for reductions in main pensions, while punishing workers who work for more than twenty-five years. We are talking about a completely undevelopment plan, as it affects the productive parts of Greek society, namely scientists, self-employed and farmers. As a result of all this, unemployment and tax avoidance will be fuelled, as the burden of obligations on the State and the insurance funds will exceed 60% of income. The lowest premiums for young scientists for the first five years are a movement of communication, as the resulting difference will be paid off at the time of the issue of the pension or even earlier on the basis of taxable income. This is your supposedly high support for young scientists: thousands of black-blocked workers will pay double insurance contributions in the case of parallel employment. But on the farmers' side, the bill actually cancels Mr. Tsipras' two-month announcements in practice. Insurance contributions are increasing. On 1-1-2017 the existing insurance categories are abolished. Farmers should pay insurance contributions linked to income real or imputable and increase incrementally. At the same time, the rural insurer OGA is being abolished, and here the government seems to be inconsistent with it. The rural world has also fallen victim to a government that promises everything to everyone without any shame. Minister, the amendment on the taxation of aid does not refer to the exclusion of the compensation for the most disadvantaged part of the rural world, mountain and mountain regions, as well as the exclusion of investment and development aid from the second pillar. I would say that you should see this, Minister, and perhaps cover it. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the tax section of the bill, the burden is on the vast majority of citizens, especially low and medium-income incomes. A single scale of taxation for salaries, pensions, business and rural activity shall be applied. The indirect tax exemption of EUR 9,550 is reduced by yesterday's amendment to EUR 8.636 for wage and pension incomes. The tax deduction shall be reduced from EUR 2.100 to EUR 1,900. The employees of 600 euros for the first time with a left government will pay tax. Free professionals with an annual income of more than EUR 32,000 will pay an additional tax from EUR 350 to EUR 8,851 for incomes of up to EUR 100,000 and these should also be added to the charges for the main pension now associated with income. The total tax burden of a natural person, a selfemployed person holding an individual company, will be much higher than the tax burden of a company. With your amendment yesterday, thousands of small businesses and professionals with a rate of 26% for profits of up to EUR 50 000 will now be taxed at 29%. We are now talking about the absolute tax storm that will hit all households in a violent way, all Greek professionals. Ladies and gentlemen, the country is again marginal. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government is led to another failed negotiation, because only a failure can be termed a negotiation that lasts for so long and ultimately brings these results. Unfortunately, Minister, Mr Chakaloto, we are 'burned' because we are in May without any results. The famous red lines proved once again false. From the level of tax to pension cuts none of what you have said is valid. You are completely unreliable and Greece, unfortunately, is sinking into this unreliableness. Demolition is not limited to the economy alone. It now runs all sides of Greek society. The Prime Minister celebrates because the country has recurred. Greece in this environment has been turning back many decades. And we have in front of us to face a government that is deeply anti-reformist, anti-developing, a government that brings the country back to a bankrupt past that strangles creativity, choking everything productive, profitable and healthy. Ladies and gentlemen, this government shows up after each other all the paths of the past. Incorporate and express the most conservative ones, the most amoralist political ones have appeared in post-populationism.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u429	Mrs. Kefaliannis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u430	Your elastic consciousness votes and serves blindly, without any humiliation, your only goal is to stay in power. This unites you, that sustains you. The sooner you leave the best for the place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u431	The Minister for Finance, Mr Euclidis Tsakalotos, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u432	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with a criticism that has reached my ears, that I am hiding, that I am not ready to face the sacred monsters of PASOK and New Democracy. And where am I going to hide? I'm going to see Wolfgang Shoebble and Paul Thompsen to keep our soul quiet. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And when I go to our Wolfgang and our Paul - proclaimed 'Poul' - I say to them - where they give me coffee - 'Thank you very much for the protection you give me from Mr. Loverdos and Mr. Brutsi'. Let's talk a little bit seriously. Last month, and what haven't we heard? That it will fail to negotiate, that we are returning to the crisis, that it is July days again, that the government ends. Some newspapers say that we will have elections, some newspapers say we will have elections and referendums and some newspapers - which are not enough - write that we will also have elections and referendums and reshapes, all together. I would like, because these do not seem so serious to me, to give you a picture of the negotiation and what is the real picture. The real picture is that I am going on Monday to Eurogroup to present the positions of the Greek Government and the end of the agreed summer. All the institutions are convinced that what we promised was done. There is an exception to what is to be discussed, that is, there is one parentheses we need to discuss and we have done what we have promised. The difference is that in this budgetary package and the reforms - for which we will have time to talk later, when the other drafts come - we and the Europeans say that it will reach a surplus in 2018 of 3.5% and the IMF says that the surplus will be 1.5%. That is why the IMF has asked for 2% to be taken, under a mandate. We have explained - and our position has not changed - and we have convinced most people, than you can see from the announcements and parties of social democracy in Europe and the People's Party, that they are not constitutional. In addition, we have convinced them that even more than 5.4 billion, that is, 3%, which we have agreed, would be counterproductive both economically and socially. And this issue came to find a compromise, this mechanism, which our Eurostat numbers and numbers say they will not need. You, the ladies and gentlemen who PASOK and the New Democracy, what do you say? Is Eurostat right or is the IMF right? [[Protests from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] Plus, what do you think? Do we have to take these measures?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u433	You tell us first.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u434	Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u435	Because in the previous conversation here, when Kyriakos Mitsotakis announced my letter calling on the IMF to take part in the program, he probably wanted to remind you of what you voted on this summer. Because the summer PASOK and the New Democracy voted to be inside the IMF. I can imagine now - to speak only about the Members of the New Democracy - that this revelation was so shocked to you, with the paper that it has moved, which I expect tomorrow to announce to you that the Pope is still Catholic and Bartholomew is not or to announce to you that winter is coming in the southern hemisphere, while we are not here. So, at 2% there are no such measures. We will propose this mechanism, which has been explained and discussed, and I ask for your help and support. Do you support the Greek Government against the IMF, that we do not need and do not need to take any further measures, or do we not? Do you support our calculations, too, of the Commission or not? That needs a clear word. It's not like you brought the IMF. That's the controversy. The politicians who are serious are approached by the political arguments and do not throw the ball in the platform, Mr Economou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u436	Do you know what month it is? It's the month we were burned.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u437	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u438	So let's go now to the IMF, after I told you the position of Greece. The position of the IMF, as you can see, is that it is pushing us for this mechanism. However, as you will read from Lagard's letter, too - and I say more than that, there are multiple readings on this letter - it urges Europeans to give something about the debt. We also have the attitude of some countries in Europe - to end the triangle - like Germany, which says that it actually wants an impossible triangle. Because Germany says: 'I certainly want an agreement, I would like the IMF in no way to give too much for the debt'. As you can see, these three things cannot be applied at the same time. So the Greek position is that we have done what we have promised, so the IMF and Germany must discuss and give a solution that is possible, which will give a solution to the debt, which will give us a clear corridor for both investors and citizens. Because the package that will come, which will be both measures and reforms, but also debt, must be credible not only for the institutions, not only for creditors, but also for the Greek people. To know where the Greek citizens are going, who this clean corridor is, to know investors, to get out of this vicious circle that has put us in PASOK and New Democracy in 2010. To return to a virtuous circle and to be able, with investment, to look forward and to do what we promised - Mrs Kefaliannis escapes that we had an election battle between Genaris and today - what we promised in the last election, not in the last race. What did we promise? That we will make the programme that we agreed on, we will negotiate hard for a few things and then, when the recapitalisation of the banks is done and the first assessment is over, and we will be able to unfold our Parallel Programme, which will be able to do something completely different for health, something completely different for education, for the social state and for society. Finally, I won't get ten minutes, Mr. President, so I'm going to wait for some tolerance. I'm telling you right now. What have we negotiated and what would you have negotiated on the two issues we are discussing at the moment, namely insurance and taxation? What's up with the insurance? First of all, we have the national pension. This is the battle against neoliberals, because neoliberals do not want the national pension that everyone takes without exception. And that's why Giorgos Katrugalos was pushing for three months so that there wouldn't be this national pension, but take it depending on income. Because what neoliberals want is national pensions only for the poor and the rich to decide accordingly. When they feel generous, take more and when they don't feel so generous, take less. This is the battle that Giorgos Katrugalos gave to have a national pension. Does anyone think that New Democracy and PASOK would have fought this battle? Or do they believe that they would have fought other battles, such as for the subsidiary and so that there is no zero deficit clause, in the way we solved it, so that there is no great social impact? Or does anyone think that, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, will the replacement rates be reduced? But you don't take good care of Mr. Katrugalo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u439	I'm looking out for you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u440	What we are doing is that the replacement rate for the rich is very low, not for the poor. Read what the bill says.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u441	With the 1,000 euros rich?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u442	The 1,300 are the rich?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u443	Now we're going to the tax-free so you don't have to tell me we're hiding. We said our pension proposal is also redistributive and is trying to protect the most popular layers. Let's go to the tax-free. First we agree not to lose the forest from the trees. Is anyone who disputes that the tax rate is one of the largest tax-free rates across Europe? Are you questioning it? Are you questioning it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u444	The 12,000?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u445	Well, you're not questioning it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u446	We question you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u447	So the first thing we've earned. A left government kept the highest tax-free almost across Europe. Secondly, our proposal for EUR 9,100...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u448	The IMF says that!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u449	Mr. President, will we have some protection? Is this going to continue?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u450	We have a change right now, but please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u451	Yeah, but please have some protection, so I can talk. I can't hear myself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u452	You're upset. Don't get upset.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u453	The Minister's upset.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u454	Mr. Economou, please don't interrupt the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u455	Mr. Brutsi, you're telling me I'm hiding. Are you hiding from reality? So I keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u456	I didn't say that. I'll answer later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u457	Minister, I would ask you to avoid rhetoric, because you are being interrupted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u458	I'm interrupted, and now you're interrupting me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u459	I'm the one who's here, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u460	I will continue if the Bureau and the opposition allow me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u461	They don't censor you. Calm down now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u462	Our proposal was 9,100 euros. And we put this proposal down on an average of 8,800 euros. This means that one who has no children is currently taking less than EUR 200 a year and EUR 100 less than our first proposal for EUR 9,100. One with three children will get exactly the same thing today and in relation to our original proposal it gets 100 euros more. So we tried to make a compromise that protects families with the children. Because if you look at the evidence of poverty and the chances of poverty, children are the biggest problem. And that's the compromise. Let's see how classic our proposal on taxation is, we need to take income tax together and contribute solidarity. If you stand out for these two, you'll be wrong. The truth is in three elements. To those with over two children there is a tax reduction for those with incomes of up to 60,000 euros. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, I imagine that covers you in class. For those with two children or a child, a total of 99% of those with two children and 98% of those with a child have a small to zero burden. And from those who have no children, a total of 99% either has a very low burden or has a benefit. Now let's go to the small businessmen, we couldn't give them the tax-free, what we tried, as you say. But what we've managed is to reduce the scale from 26% to 22%.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u463	With the amendment you made 29%.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u464	From 26% we did it 22%. I'm done and I'm done. We have said from the outset that this government has cut the strategy into three layers. One is the one we agreed on. You tell us unreliable, you tell us no one believes us. Ask the leaders of the Socialists in Europe or the Peoples if they share what you say. The whole of Europe is aware that what this government agrees may have been problematic, they may have had many thorns, but our word is a contract. That's what we said. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] [[Laughers from the New Republic ward]] Secondly, we have negotiated hard both on income tax and on insurance. No one believes that you would have protected the basic pension, no one believes that you would have done nothing to hit farmers, because everyone remembers that in the referendum on the Yunger solution, you said to vote 'yes'. The Greek people don't forget it. All you are fighting now said to the Greek people "We accept them". [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And thirdly, the Greek people do not forget when he hears what he has heard from you, but even more from Mr. Theocharis, who really got out of clothes than he said, that "I want pensions not to be state, but to be private." It's my pleasure to take you to Britain to take you to the people who lost the pensions from insurance companies and the problems they had. The whole Greek people know if we want public health, public education, if we want pensions. They know where to look and where to look.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u465	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u466	Mrs. Pappiga has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u467	No, Mr President, he mentioned me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u468	What's not? He has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u469	Mrs. Papariga, do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u470	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u471	Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u472	Mr President, I was personally mentioned by the Minister. Minister, I have never said or said in my political formation to refer to ministers and say they are hiding. I was just wondering this morning if the Minister, Mr Chakalotos, has the moral courage to come to the Chamber to support his amendment. And I say this, Minister, because what you promised the Greek people about duty-free - the first deception - was not 9,100. Did you win the election by promising each Greek 12,000 tax free and you come today and say that your proposal is 9,100? That is, 9,100 was SYRIZA's proposal. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Minister, there was something else in between. On all the networks - television and newspapers - your statement that you will resign and it is the absolute red line for you in 9,100 and today you are bringing us 8,600. That is what I am asking myself, in other words, your moral ability and seriousness to come today to support such an amendment. That is what I said, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, because this is a major change. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] And along with this you are bringing taxes on businesses, from 26% to 29%.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u473	Please, Mr. Brutsi, on staff...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u474	That is why you have not answered, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u475	Mr Brutsis, you have asked for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u476	I'm closing, Mr. President. With regard to invoking the New Democracy, if it is with the IMF or the institutions, I will simply say to you that this party called the New Democracy is a party that over time supports Greece, above all, above all, a party interest, completely different from you. And the interest of Greece at the moment is to leave the government as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u477	Mr. Brutsi, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u478	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u479	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, are you asking for the floor on personal grounds or as a parliamentary representative?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u480	I ask for the floor on personal grounds. The Minister asked me something.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u481	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u482	Mr. Chakalotos asked me how I view your tax measures. I asked you to tell me a measure that affects the interests of the bourgeoisie. Because, based on the Marxist theory, which you, as far as I know, enjoy in capitalism, there are two classes: labour and urban and intermediate strata. There is not one measure which affects the interests of the bourgeoisie. You maintain the favourable scandalous privileges for shipowners, and even with Mr Stathakis' development law you will also give new tax incentives to business groups.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u483	Mr President, I am also asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u484	Mr. Loverdo, on personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u485	Likewise!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u486	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u487	I don't want more than thirty seconds. It started, referring to me...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u488	Mr Loverdos, I have asked before, and I have disturbed the Minister not to ask rhetorical questions, because staff issues are being produced.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u489	But he did!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u490	Nothing is produced.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u491	What did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u492	In the speech there are rhetorical questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u493	Yes, but that creates problems and we take away time from the Members' speeches. Mr. Loverdo, what is the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u494	Mr President, unfortunately he had made the personal references to something said about him, but they were not here and were wrong to him. No one told you that you were hiding in relation to your speech today or tomorrow, or where you go or in your organs. We told you that you had 114 in the draft law, an article from which you received the public, you, from the citizens 1,7 billion, and an amendment that came from you last night, Minister, that you violated the reason you gave with Stathakis and Katrugalo, that under the 9,100 euros you will resign, get from people...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u495	They didn't say so, they say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u496	There's the video, it's played at all stations and sites since last night. With the midnight amendment from people who have an annual income from EUR 8,638 to EUR 9,100, you receive EUR 200 million. Goals, we're central! Hello, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u497	That's a nice culture! Bravo!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u498	Mr. Papariga, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u499	Mr President, I request the floor. The Minister referred to me too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u500	Does he represent a party?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u501	I ask why the Minister referred to me. I want to talk to the Minister, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u502	Please! It's about...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u503	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, the Minister referred to the fact...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u504	Please! I didn't give you the floor. Mrs. Pappiga will speak, the Minister will speak, and then we will go to the staff. Mrs. Papariga, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u505	Let me speak and answer to the Minister as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u506	The Minister will talk, then. Mrs. Papariga, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u507	It is not right to do what you are doing, Mr President! After he answers, I'll have to answer. I will also ask for the floor on personal grounds. I ask personally, I apologize to Mrs. Pappigga. It is not right what has happened, but after they have taken the floor on staff and attacked me, I have to answer. I'm sorry, Mrs. Papariga. You're right, but that's...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u508	Mr. Chakalato, don't you answer the world that's concentrated outside? Does it matter if you answer one of the other Members? But that's your sensitivity.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u509	Since Mrs. Papariga is already in Stepma, she'll talk and then I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u510	The whole world must have forgotten what the debate was.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u511	He won't have forgotten, Mr. Chakaloto. He's in Stepma. It's not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u512	It's not right what you're doing. It is not right, Mr President, that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u513	To answer the world that's outside.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u514	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u515	It's not right. I want to talk for a minute. Listen...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u516	You asked for the floor when Mrs. Pappyga was here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u517	No, I asked you right away, but it took another reason, and I sat down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u518	You didn't tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u519	No, Mr. President! You don't see. I need a minute. Let me go for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u520	Please! Mrs. Papariga?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u521	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u522	I gave you the floor. If you want to grant him, I have no objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u523	Look, we don't play theatre in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u524	Why, are we playing?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u525	Hey, okay!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u526	I have a right to say it, Mr. Mada. We're not playing theatre. Well, let the Minister speak, 'cause I saw that the sensitivity that exists here is personal, for each other. You don't care what's going on outside this room and answer there, not justify it. You don't care. Well, I let him take the floor and answer the personal things that were created. What personally? These are political issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u527	Mr President, I should like to speak before the Minister speaks, because he has to answer to me too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u528	Wait a minute. The concept of staff is to say something that has been touched upon you. If he has said something that interprets as politics, it is not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u529	He referred to me and said something I didn't say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u530	It is not a personal reason to say that. If you're hurt, I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u531	He referred to what I said, saying things I didn't say. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u532	You're welcome. Minister, you have the floor, but please avoid rhetorical questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u533	But he referred to what I said. You have to give me a chance to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u534	I'll just be a minute. If you had left me when I had asked for the floor, we'd be done now. I just need a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u535	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u536	Mr President, that is not possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u537	Mr. Chaakalot, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u538	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u539	He's yelling. What can I say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u540	The Minister will talk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u541	Will you do it twice?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u542	I told you, it is not a personal reason to say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u543	They all talk and you're just sneezing at me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u544	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u545	Where and where? There's no reason to do this for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u546	Please. It's not a personal thing to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u547	But, Mr President, it has distorted what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u548	You can't direct the meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u549	It has distorted what I said, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u550	You're welcome. It's not personal what he said about you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u551	I'm only asking for thirty seconds. We'd be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u552	But what do you want? All retreat for you? I can't understand what you're asking for.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u553	But could everyone have spoken and humiliated me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u554	Tell me what the staff are made up of.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u555	Give me a minute to explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u556	No, tell me what the staff is made up of.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u557	Under the Rules of Procedure, Rule 67 gives me a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u558	Tell me what the staff consists of, to give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u559	Give me a minute with the microphone, let me explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u560	Tell me what the staff are made up of. That's what the Rules of Procedure say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u561	Rule 67 gives me a minute to explain what the staff consists of.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u562	I said, you'll tell first what the staff are then. Tell what it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u563	Mr. Minister... Open the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u564	I said: what does the staff make up?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u565	Open the microphone, let me explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u566	The Rules of Procedure say that the President-in-Office or the President ask what the staff are composed of. So I ask you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u567	The Rules of Procedure give me a minute with the microphone on. Wait a minute says Article 67...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u568	It doesn't give a minute without saying what, because all three hundred MPs could say that thing, give them a minute. The staff to what is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u569	The Rules of Procedure, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u570	The Rules of Procedure say to analyse what the staff consists of.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u571	Mr President, give me a minute to explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u572	Good, I'll give you the floor. But tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u573	That's what I'm telling you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u574	To what is the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u575	Good. Thank you, Mr President. The Rules of Procedure say that I have a minute to explain what it consists of. The Minister, Mr Chakalotos, referred to me and in his friendly practice he used the example of Great Britain. Of course, this may be the case in Great Britain. But in Greece people think that his money is going for retirement. And with the system brought by the government, they don't take his money for retirement. The state budget takes them along with hatred, corruption and waste.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u576	Is that the staff? Good. Okay. So you saw that the staff aren't that. Minister, you have the floor. Please do not address yourself with names, because it is not helping.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u577	I want to clear up two, three things with calm tones. All I want to say is that somewhere between January and September there must have been a tchef fly and tche that went to Congress, because you seem not to have realised that there were after the January elections and the September elections. Don't tell us about 12,000 euros tax-free when you know that this was a January promise.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u578	Oh, okay! I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u579	Yes, Mr. Economou, that's right. Because we're on schedule. And we went and that's what we promised. That's the first.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u580	We misunderstood you. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u581	Secondly, I am ready to put it to the Greek people, if they think I am strong, and to answer either here or in Europe. And I put it in the Greek people's crisis whether we negotiate hard or what you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u582	Is that an argument?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u583	And I think that the Greek people have given the answer to who is negotiating and who is not negotiating. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Finally, I will ask Mr Karathanasopoulos - because we do not have time to go into detail - to see where the maximum rate of taxation was, where was the maximum rate for the contribution of solidarity and where is it now and to tell me whether it is classic or not it is classic. And I will ask him to look more carefully at the law of the Karugalos George to see how this reduction in the rate of replacement is distributed. That's what you look at and then answer me. To close, I say again, Mrs. Papapaiga, that I apologize for being like this. But please don't touch us by saying that we don't care what they're doing outside. Every day all SYRIZA MPs have this anguish for this world.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u584	Mrs. Papariga, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u585	In the latter I will not answer you, Minister, because then there will really be a personal issue and I do not want it. You try to be a good fisherman. You keep throwing bait, waiting for the fish to catch the baits. I'm not saying, there are fish that catch these baits, but you still haven't seen what you'll see in the next period. The people didn't get to sleep. However, there is a way forward which can be of counter-attack and can be relevant - in terms of political criteria, not with narrow, timely - long and demanding. You haven't seen what you should see yet. And we are not talking now about movements in the squares or vigilances taking place in Paris, etc. We're talking about a movement that has legs where it should be, in factories, in places of work, by branch, where it hurts the real opponent of the people, who are not just you, it's an entire class. We are talking about a movement that, of course, will have specific demands at every stage. It will have mature demands, what workers decide, not what the alpha or the beta party can impose. Of course, the movement is massive. It cannot and should not be narrow party. But we are talking about a movement that, if it wants to have results, prevent the application of laws where it can, overthrow laws and extract conquests - and, of course, within the framework of capitalism, there is the possibility of taking some temporary conquests - it must have two features: First - first, he must have a choice. And I don't mean the choice of voting right now. When you say "election", you mean what you will vote on in the next election. That's the account you're making. That's not what we're talking about. We are talking about a choice of a development path, whether growth will be done with a view to profits or whether it will be done with a view to human needs. Secondly, it must also be based on an understanding of who the producer of wealth and services is in this place and in every place where capitalism exists. What the slogan says - which is not enough, of course, to see as a slogan, one must understand the substance - 'Without you a working gear, a worker you can without bosses', is that if there is no understanding, there is no possibility today of taking some conquests and preventing measures. Mr Tsakalotos, we do not invoke you - and I say this in general for the government - from the very beginning that the other parties in this House are invoking you. We don't tell you that as human beings, as parliamentarians, you as ministers are liars and crooks. But you also lie about deception inevitably with your policy. You cannot convince the Greek people - and you have convinced him and I tell you that indignation will still not be expressed in political deterioration - without lying, without cheating and without bait. We want to make this clear: Is the main lie that you promised a thirteenth pension, that you promised a minimum of EUR 751? It might have been a conscious lie. I can't know that. It may have been a delusion, you may have seen your stature the same as your shade. You can tell me that, yes, we thought we could give this. I have no proof to say that it was a conscious lie. But the Thessaloniki Program, which was crumbs - we talked about it at the time - was based on a much thicker lie and more deception. And you used to say that when you were still 4% and maybe the other one wasn't careful. But now that you're government, it's dangerous. You didn't mutate. You've been revealed as a government. We don't agree you've been mutated. What were the lies and myths you used? "Government of the Left - Man above Wins". Look, or the man will be there or the profits. These are, on the contrary, competitive. There can't be any profits in capitalist and man not be underneath it, but be above it. It is another thing if with his struggle, the worker can achieve a better wage in some alpha or beta phase. Second lie and myth: “Another world is possible without overturning.” These were the fat lies, which were unreadable for the people, they were not legible. Yes, the people were left with their thirteenth pension. Deal. And I'm telling you that it wasn't necessarily a conscious lie. But it was the conscious lies you were telling. When you said, for example, that the European Union will become the European Union of workers, when you said - and you say - that the war can be abolished by political agreement and by the application of international law, were these not gross lies and gross cheating of the people? We blame you for that. And I hear you. I heard Mr. Friend from the committee. Don't look, I may not be in this House, but I don't miss any committees of the House. I'm watching them. And you all say the same thing, and Mr. Fotakis: "What the KKE says is not bad, is good. But it is not realistic today, it is not possible." So, our disagreement is that you're reforming and we want revolution? Is that the dispute between the two parties? Is it that we want hundreds of things to happen and you're 20? Our disagreement is because you are the pillars of this rotten system, both at the level of the political system and at the level of the socio-economic system. You're the pencils! It's not like you're doing a little bit. I wish that was our difference, you'd run forty miles and we'd like you to run with sixty and eighty. That's not the difference. And that's what we have to understand. And don't answer us in the same way as you answer the other parties. You say, 'the possible'. So, is that the law possible? He's a horror. He's glowing. The only possible is that wages, pensions, tax, etc. be deducted. Uh, no, gentlemen, we disagree. That's where we disagree. We do not disagree with the pace, for example, of solving the problems. And, indeed, you have the nerve to appear here too! - that you are the heirs of the class and social struggles that took place throughout the 20th century. I will tell you clearly what you are: The most irresponsible, compromised and degenerated has appeared in the lines of class struggle, not outside it. You are the worst descendants of Eurocommunism and other associated flows. That's why we're fighting you. We don't fight you because we have some differences only to ask. We do not question that you may get a very good degree in evaluation. I'm telling you, you're gonna get 10 minutes or 20 seconds, I don't know how they rate. The degree and success are depending on the measures you take, the anti-grass and the anti-grassers. There are two criteria, regardless of their differences between the European institutions - as has now been done - and the technical mechanisms and the IMF. All right! What's the difference? What are their criteria? Single criteria may have scores in numbers or rates. Firstly, what capitalism turns into a merchandise, the ability to provide work for the labour force, to be as cheap as possible and, secondly, there is no obstacle - nor is it typical - to start capital and investment in Greece, whether domestic or foreign capital. The possibility for Greece to have the full conditions for the profitability of investments. So we tell you that, yes, you may get 20 seconds. This for us is an additional proof of the insanity of the measures you have taken. Secondly, yes, you are running,'screaming' - I am sorry for the expression - to cause investment. But there is no bourgeois government, as we say, or urban party or party - a stylist of the system that does not want investment. Didn't New Democracy want PASOK or other parties? But if capitalist profitability doesn't start again, how? What proof is that? You disprove, for example, the New Democracy - and you are doing well now among you - because you say, 'we are trusted by the partners'. And that's what we see, they trust you. But we are shaking on the criterion that your partners have confidence. We're terrified, we don't panic. You understand in what sense we say it. Another misunderstanding: Mr Tsakalotos said now that the neoliberal concept - now has become the 'extreme neoliberal', first we had 'liberal', then we made it 'neo-liberal', then we made it 'extremely neo-liberal', too many ratings - did not want the lower national pension. And the minimum national pension he wanted and the minimum guaranteed income he wanted. And that's leveling down. How did he not want them? So capitalism is just neoliberalism? Isn't that what you're doing today to resurrect the lost honor of social democracy? So, is it a classic, philosophical policy to introduce the pension? I say to you that even EUR 500 would have had the minimum pension, we would not have considered it philosophical, because for us labour force and human needs it is not a merchandise. You use it as a merchandise that you might give him a better price. It's not a merchandise for us. That's the system. You say in Europe, we have the highest tax-free rate. But that is what we are telling you, that the measures taken in Greece are being taken under crisis conditions. However, if we did not have a crisis, the same measures would be taken. Sure. The start of the measures that we are taking now is in the early 1990s. However, they are measures which have been selected since the 1973 crisis. In England they were promoted in the 1980s, as in the United States. In Greece, what happened? It is precisely thanks to the workers' movement, the trade union movement - and we will say that although it is not right to commit ourselves - and to the existence of a Communist party, which did not put water on its wine, pressure was exerted and these reforms were delayed. And that's why the New Democracy and the PASOK are self-criticizing that he retreated and did not make the reforms. That is what you are saying, too, that the insurance reform has not taken place in good time. This is what happened in Greece. And because measures have not gone any further and a little more calm, they are now going in the form of shock. But they are not measures of the crisis. To finish, the greatest deception you are making to the people - this is deception - is when you say that the memorandum has brought down the recession, that the insurance funds have lost their reserves because loans have been given to the 'buddies' and something like that. Look at that, not that there aren't any. But it turns out what I'm telling you. That is why you lead to conservativeism and degeneration of radical consciences, because you criticise the capitalist system, completely compatible within it and strengthen it. When you say, for example, - to finish - that the European Union has escaped its original objectives, what is it? On the one hand you are criticising, you are expressing a left audience, a left-hand tradition that survives - although it has been very badly altered, whatever it was - and at the same time you are putting the people in the lukewarm to think that the European Union was good, useful, but now we need to help it to be corrected. You do the same for the capitalist system. When you said that another world is possible, what did you show us? You have shown us a capitalism that would regulate itself, correct itself and become more human. Listen to me, the Communist Party of Greece knows very well what phase we are. We are in a phase of global retreat of the movement - and of the Greek - and we know very well that, to get out of the phase of retreat, you do not come out either with a general slogan, with superficial screams and insurrections, nor with strong slogans. In order to talk about the possible, we have brought you here in the House, a series of amendments and proposals which were not leaps, but a relief for the workers. You didn't find that either. So it's not the intercourse between us, that we're unrealistic, and you're realists. The intercourse is between two radically different development lines etc. At least the New Democracy and the PASOK fought us exactly as a Communist Party of Greece, with our ideology, our theory and what we supported. Of course they also had silence and distortion. You are not now criticising us, but we are confronted with the potential and the utopian. That's not what you do to do to us. Tomorrow and the repression will be used against us. We're sure. But what you are doing is doing so that you can pass on to the people the subjection and manipulation, that, otherwise, the New Democracy and the PASOK can be achieved today and otherwise you can. And that is why you accept the greetings and frustrations of those whom until they become a government you find. And now you come and say, "We are recognized as being liberated." Well - and this must be known by the people - the more they recognize you as liberates, the more the people must fight exactly in terms of counterattack, rupture and overthrow, of course, with realism. In one night, it's not all solved. But it matters where you want to go and who you see as an opponent. That's what matters.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u586	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pappigga. Before I give the floor to the Parliamentary spokesman of the Union of Centres, Mr Karras, because a matter has been created before and may be re-established, I should like to read Rule 68 on the personal matter. So Article 68(2) says: 'The invoking staff to the detriment of the matter shall ask the President for permission to speak'. In paragraph 3 it says: 'The President may not give the floor if he considers that there is no personal matter'. Paragraph 4 states: 'If the person concerned insists and raises doubts, the President may...' - if he wishes, that is to say - '... ask Parliament immediately. If the President considers that the floor may be given, the person concerned shall be invited to present his problem in one minute's time.' In other words, he'll first say what the problem is, then he'll be given the approval, and then he'll be given one minute. Why am I saying that? Because with this one minute, all three hundred Members could have invoked a minute, because in their opinion there is a personal problem for them, so the procedure is being annulled. I would therefore ask you all to respect the Rules of Procedure. Here, Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u587	Mr President, thank you. Today's debate reminded me of an old professor of law at the School of Law, who was under Financial Law. So what was he telling us at the beginning of the course? That man's worst companion is tax. Today, then, it comes to the conclusion that also a person’s equally worst companion is insurance contributions. Why am I saying that? We have a bill which seeks nothing but cutbacks and recovery. In the morning when discussing the objection to anti-constitutionality, I expressed the view that the unconstitutionality of this draft law in relation to insurance contributions is, above all, about Article 78, because it is entirely linked to income, without proportionately affecting the contributions received from income in proportion to benefits that the insurance system will provide. In this sense my understanding, my belief, that there is a need to cover gaps, to cover deficits, and not to recompense the citizen, who, after so many years of crisis, is being taken care of. And, indeed, the history of the insurance system proves that. It shows that the insurance system was used by the political system as a manipulator of politics, as a policy tool - and I do not want to speak and recall a lot - as was the use of the reserves of the insurance funds on the Stock Exchange. Large sums have been lost, which if they were allowed to remain within the system, they would have paid today. I do not want to remind you of the way in which the individual deposits of the insurance funds are deposited in the Bank of Greece and the last abstraction with the well-known bond-cutting that the insurance funds had forced them to have given their reserves to the Greek State for use - and you will allow me to express - defensive policies several times. We now come to say that we need to reform the insurance system. But the reform of the insurance system is one and only: the achievement of economic growth. As much as we speak and say that we will cut down, increase taxes and contributions, these cannot be collected. There can be no collection of these percentages which you are currently trying to legislate on. There can be no return for simple reasons. I will not bring the known example - I will be very brief - of the free professionals, because we have said it and we are all aware of it. It leads not only to tax evasion and tax evasion, but to a drastic reduction in incomes, so that professionals cannot meet the requirements of the tax and insurance system. So, instead of expecting an increase in revenue - even by the increase proposed by the government - we will see a reduction. And that's gonna create an endless vicious circle. In a short time, they'll need new measures. We're about to talk about a new insurance policy. We will soon be poorening the whole of Greece. I would also like to say something else that has bothered me very much, if not upset, personally. On the one hand, we all believe or proclaim and work - and on the other hand I am going to say to SYRIZA and ANEL colleagues, I do not understand that they do not seek the best - for the best, and on the other hand we have the creation of new conditions for a client state. I will give examples of tangible, yesterday, in this House what was discussed and what was decided. And I'll repeat it and be tired. It is yesterday's amendment for those teachers who should formally resign on 4-5 May, not to prevent them from getting the insurance so as not to reduce single pensions or pensions. So I said yesterday in full confidence that since we consider these people to be unfair - and I believe they are wronged after thirty, forty years of working life - all other Greeks who are in other categories of working life in other funds are wronged. Therefore, SYRIZA's colleagues who tried to settle the restoration of this injustice yesterday should have the perception - and have the claim if you want - to vote against the insurance bill today. Because we cannot say that we are redeeming injustice in a certain sector when the entire Greek people are wronged. And he's really not. I can give dozens of examples. This is, therefore, a good example of yesterday's legislation. I will give you a second example of good legislation, which I hadn't identified yesterday. I spotted it last night reading the research law. Do you want me to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, what happened? We remembered the time of Simitis, when a profitability bonus had been introduced again, which reached 120% of the basic earnings. It's n. 3205/2003, Mr. Koutsuko. You'll know him, I guess, very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u588	I wasn't here at the time. They ate me at the election court.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u589	Because of your experience, I refer to you, not because of your parliamentary presence. By Law 3205/2003 a remuneration allowance had been introduced, allowing the governors to reach up to 120% of the remuneration. And yesterday, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, I saw it in the law that we voted on. We voted against it, we supported it. So I saw it in Article 24 of the Research Act, which says that the management of research centres can decide to grant the remuneration allowance, which does not even call an allowance. He calls it a reward. So I went to the explanatory statement to see what this allowance is. I didn't know. I confess. Where we were talking about amended provisions, he didn't have the provisions of v. 3205/2003 to go and see what he was hiding. I was forced to investigate it. I have therefore found that there you are reintroducing an allowance to be paid, a payroll, which is 120% of the pay of all the employees in the research centres. It can be worth the wages of those who will enjoy it. On the one hand, we come and call on the people to suffer new sacrifices, to suffer new suffering, to tolerate, to bend the head to contribute to the country and, on the other hand, to open doors with which we want to serve some other friendly groups - I do not know - or to make friends of these groups to create a solid customer policy. So today I denounce it from the Step of the House, not the way of good or not legalisation. I denounce it because, on the one hand, we cannot accept that the people must suffer all these sacrifices and, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the side of the road to giving or restoring injustices - it is supposed to be! - for the protection of certain groups these things, so in such a simple way, but without saying in the House that these things are happening. Last night's third example. I don't want to get into the provisions of the bill. They have been analysed by colleagues. I, too, understand what is happening with regard to the return of those levies that have been unduly paid. All this is well known. I know the charges that young professionals and old professionals will have. However, I would like to say a third example which was particularly annoying too. Yesterday there was a violation of the constitution within the House, if you want to hear it. There was a violation of the Constitution, because the method of the parliamentary amendment was annulled for the University of Crete. (MO) Where is the Court of Auditors? You know that provision couldn't come from the government. Because if it were government, it would have to be the torture of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament. And the Scientific Committee of Parliament - if she respects herself, which I believe she respects, because I have read the reports and I have seen the level with which she operates - she has nothing but a one-way path. He would say: "Warning, it is unconstitutional." Delete assigned wanted the Court of Auditors' previous decision, i.e. the Supreme Court. We have therefore found the way to do this by means of a parliamentary amendment. I imagine - if you will, I believe - that the Members who signed this amendment did not know. It may be that they are also shown that an injustice is being remedied here. We have always taken off the Court of Auditors, we have always taken off the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, and have given forgiveness to a criminal case-file, which came days ago, we know its content, we know who it is and why it is. In fact, in conclusion - so as not to become tireless at this point - I would say that they should be charged for a single reason: Cover a contract for the provision of medical care by a private insurance company, as if they were the aristocrats, the chosen ones, while all the other Greeks, civil servants and the private sector that we have security from the state body, we have no right to have a better medical care. I won't say any more. I will only say that at the moment in this House I have met many groups, not interested but affected, I would say. They are the lawyers, the retired people, the employees of the municipalities, who go in there - and allow me the expression - in a 3% resource they give themselves and the municipalities contribute and create a reserve for the single one, which they will receive. Today I'm afraid they won't get one single with the new law that comes. Because this 3% resource disappears. They've given me numbers that I imagine the Minister knows who they are. You've been met, Minister, I know the subject. All this disappears within the state corps, supposed to restore the insurance system. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude at once, Mr President: we also have a contribution of solidarity, which is very high. Over a level of income reaches 8%. It's a tax that should actually be reciprocated. Because when I listened to a 'contribution of solidarity', I thought - naively, if you like - that it goes to a special account for the relief of some of our fellow citizens, fellow Greeks - I will not see Greeks and foreigners. I have heard nothing in this Chamber about whether this solidarity levy goes to debt service, whether it goes to welfare, which is necessary under the current circumstances, or whether it is actually available for the purpose of its name. I don't want to be too tiring. I know, ladies and gentlemen, that you are aware of the anxiety which we, the Central Association, have as an exception, that we can make a contribution to public life, that we can improve it, and that is why I am referring in particular to issues which, in our view, should not even allow the government to be affected in this House. Because, first of all, the government should respect the Greek people's vote, respect for itself, so that it can meet its obligations. We, of course, as we have said, are not thinking, but we are in a position to vote on this bill either at the outset or on the articles, as it is introduced. Thank you, Mr President, and you and colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u590	Thank you, too, Mr. Carras. Mrs. Jufi, SYRIZA Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u591	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today comes to the plenary following a debate on the relevant committees and, of course, on the subject of public debate, in a climate of fierce risk from Opposition and the systemic media, which are now transiently silent, but which we do not really hear sincerely, viable counter-proposals. What is characteristic - and we have lived here today in the House - is the extreme, demagogic, almost sometimes delusional reason, intensity, preoccupation, selective dementia, distortion of reality, obscene demagogic approach and intelligence, as well as the aggressive language of the body still, along with the millennial arguments made by the country's public affairs for many years about the pain they feel about poor people, civil servants and vulnerable people. Of course, without expressing their retrospective pains, for example, for those who had lost their jobs, they had been made free of the choices of the previous coexistence, which they made on their own, so that the troika would not take their glory, as they were saying. The government is therefore seeking an important part of this bill for the organisation and functioning of the social state, of course in the well-known drowning and sedated environment of today's neoliberal Europe. Our commitment to the Greek people was and remains one: the implementation of the difficult and painful agreement with the lenders, while protecting the weak, the social majority, which has suffered the greatest burden during the memorandum years, by developing and unfolding, as far as possible, the possible parallel policies and by redistributing burdens and benefits. In this direction we have given priority to protecting wages and pensions, despite the plans of the Opposition. Here I can refer you to statements by branded Heads of State of the New Democracy, who are now traditionally identical to the views of the most extreme portion of the lenders, who are donating it, as it says, without taboos horizontal cuts in wages and pensions and social expenditure in general and, of course, mass redundancies, but which they call'suspension of expenditure', as well as the complete demolition of labour relations. Ladies and gentlemen, it is commonly accepted that the insurance system as it stands is irrational, unfair and unsustainable financially, for reasons which have been adequately analysed by the colleagues who spoke before me and also by the relevant ministers. Our aim is to exalt and rationalise this insurance, without reducing, as we have promised, the main pensions and without affecting the vast majority of the subsidiary. It is likely that around 10% of the current beneficiaries, instead of 26%, would have been the result of applying the zero deficit clause, if the agreement had not been made to find funds from the fund reserves and the employers' contribution. This bill protects the vast majority of people who have drawn up up up up up to 1,300 euros, i.e. two million and a hundred thousand pensioners. Efforts are also being made to restore chronic distortions and injustices between insured persons, through uniform rules for calculating contributions and pensions and, of course, the introduction of national pensions, which will be granted without income criteria, and which will in particular be linked to a development clause. It also provides for the creation of a single insurance body, which, in addition to cost savings through the control and reduction of operating expenditure, also means the effective integration of social security rules by effectively reducing the disparities between the many funds and the noble funds, i.e. the few funds. At this point, you will allow me to respond to two falsehoods that the opposition is moving and, unfortunately, gives them to the fifteen-month mismanagement of the SYRIZA. We say, then, that the bill will reduce by up to 30% the dividends of civil servants, overlooking the fact that the Equity Fund had a monthly income of around EUR 47 000 000 by 2013, because it received EUR 145 000 per year from social resources, social resources, which you, the previous government, abolished in 2014, with the result that its monthly revenues now amounted to EUR 39 000 000, while the dividends that are called upon to pay amount to EUR 47 000 000, and it is clear why dividends are needed. That's a second lie. I think it has been answered, but I will try to answer that, having served the disabled family and the debate on disability pensions for about twenty years. So you say that the bill reduces disability pensions. There is, in fact, no substantial change until the end of the year, and there is also a wide debate on the homogenisation of the rules, with the participation of the representatives of people with disabilities. The predictions are the application of an old 1951 law, which, however, explicitly refers to Article 2 of Law No.3836/2010 by Mr. Loverdou, who said very strongly, demolition on this matter that it is provided for under this law. In addition, there is a positive response from the Minister to call for Members of the Co-Population, and also for the continuation of the extra-institutional 4-fold allowance, grievance to be granted to insured, pensioners and family members who fulfil the conditions, without further restrictions. The reform is certainly not favourable to everyone, and there will be charges relating to the highest incomes and, at least in the initial phase, at least for a few young people. However, ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I would like to stress that the draft budget is a serious and painful attempt to reconcile social and transgenic justice and sustainability, which has been drawn up on the basis of a more progressive and fairer burden sharing, despite the suffocating pressures of creditors. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Obviously, this will not be enough for some layers of the population, since hard memorial times have succumbed to fatigue, frustration and poverty and our government has been called upon to propose, in the context of the collapsed New Democracy and PASOK, GDP in the medium term, such as in the time of war, rules of rationalisation and justice in this structural area of the insurance system. Can this bill, then, be accepted, convince the world of honest work and the fight to succeed? It seems difficult, but not impossible. And, obviously, it is dependent on and depends on the outcome of the more comprehensive battle to reach a significant debt write-down agreement and a substantial growth recovery. So will we lose our social support, as we are threatened with, in this battle, or will we, in the circumstances, achieve the difficult bet to set a positive example in the European context? It remains to be proved, since major overthrows, ladies and gentlemen, do not appear as gifts. They are born of many long, painful activities of many young people and have a different character at a time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u592	Thank you, Mrs. Jufi. We're on number 18 of speakers. They have declared a hundred and forty-eight Members to speak, and my request is not to break time, because we remove Members. If we break time, then they won't talk much more Members. Please, therefore, stay in seven minutes, as it is now, because we will be forced to cut down. Mr. George Germenis, Member of the Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u593	Thank you. All the years I remember the Left being on the streets and bars whenever the government concerned with insurance, demonstrating, urging people to strike. But the time has come when a left-wing government is now at the wheel of the country. As the ordinary people say 'this government is in things now.' And instead of continuing to fight for the people's strata, you bring an insurance policy to the vote, which is full of anti-popular measures. So what's going on? A great, tragic poet of the century said: "If you do not make sacrifices for your ideas, then either ideas are not worthy of you." In this case the truth is somewhere in the middle and it is confirmed that the best friend of capitalism was and is communism or better the same currency with different sides. Now, if you're communists, that's another topic of discussion. It is important that, for years now, you in this pool of voters have been fishing and sold a revolution. You, Mr Katrugale, in your book "The crisis and the way out" - which I have here before me - which was recently issued, in 2012, you strongly supported and applauded the policy of Obama, the United States, asking for money of $750 billion when this economic crisis was in America. In fact, you have criticised the European Union, namely Germany, that the strict austerity imposed by Germany brings about and results in the growth of recession and intolerant growth.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u594	And now I'm saying it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u595	And now you're saying it. I'll tell you later and you'll answer what you're saying. You also share, of course, the economist, Samuelson, who mentions characteristics in the economy that, in order to combat the recession, there are two ways: to increase expenditure or reduce tax rates. Just a few years ago, you strongly condemned your current policy, Mr Katrugale. And now you're saying that? I honestly ask you: Do you think these measures will bring some growth? All you teachers, when you're in college, teach a reality. But when you are in the chairs and become Ministers, then you become the same and perform the opinion of the Memorandum bosses. You're incomprehensible. As far as the Memorandum Policies are concerned, you will specifically refer to the book here and I quote: "The recipe of the memorandum is a more lethal medicine than the disease, since it speeds up the process of abandoning the institutions of the social state and creates a vicious cycle of debt growth. However, there is a way out." In fact, you still have this book to advertise from your website. And you just wrote that in 2012. In recent years Greece has pursued a policy of extreme austerity, with excessive tax increases and a parallel reduction in public spending. The result of this paradoxical economic policy was, in the end, an increasing recession. You have no excuse. These measures have been tested and failed. In fact, as a left-wing government, that seems to have been the best thing to suggest. I mean, do the same thing the previous governments did. That's who you are. We all know that there is a need for a stable, structured and integrated insurance system. What, though, are you bringing us today? You are bringing us a bill which the Court of Auditors also says raises issues of unconstitutionality, not only specific provisions, but also the whole proposed draft law. But let us look more specifically at what pension provision is made for. While you were telling us that the main pensions are not reduced, this draft law, with a set of many secret arrangements, will actually bring about significant reductions in the final amount that enters the pensioners' pocket. As a result, the granting of new main pensions, reduced by 10% -30%, which, if combined with the other cuts, will lead to economic suffocation for pensioners. Can we talk about farmers, farmers, fishermen, fishermen? You're tearing them apart. Full impoverishment! Of course it is the sector that deals with primary production. It's the pillar of the economy. You're shrining them. Should we talk about the free-traders with the blockers? You totally humiliate them. It may be ironic of history that not only the IKA but also the welfare state as a whole - an institution that creates and sign the country's national government in the period 1936-1940 on Ioannis Metaxas - is under total collapse in the year 2016 when the country is governed for the first time by a government that claims to be left. Of course you're bound by Marxist ideas. You have been subjected to the capitalist jewels of international capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u596	Thank you, Mr. Germenis. And we move on to SYRIZA MP, Mr. Beala. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u597	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the first day of the debate in plenary on a bill that overturns the entire former regime and creates a real reform. Much has been heard and heard and will be heard by tomorrow evening, which is the final vote of the bill. But I would like to ask a question. In addition to the numbers, rates, amounts of contributions and pensions it contains, it has not even been answered whether you disagree with its philosophy of creating a single social security institution. Because on the one hand, I think you agree, but on the other hand, you disagree again. We are being created, in other words, a different view, because you say that we should not have made a single body, but we should have done three. What difference does it make? So in your sense the system with the infinite insurance funds and the incredible number of pensions - as we have the IKA with the over nine hundred forms of pensions it gives - you also agree that it is no longer done. So, if you want to contribute, agree on philosophy and discuss both the percentages and the contributions. However, these rates and contributions are not static. The philosophy of the system is the building. Its arrangements are differentiated by changing the economy, but also by reducing unemployment and all that we look forward to leaving our country from the memoranda. Even the national pension, which has the development clause within it, is different. You are speaking - too many colleagues in the opposition - these days and you are saying that we should withdraw it. ‘Remove it.’. On the other hand, if we withdraw it, what do you impart? Stay in the same status, in the same insurance system? Ladies and gentlemen, for our Government it would be easy - the commitment it had in August, which you also voted on - not to make these changes, but to save 1,8 billion by cutting down some pensions, increasing the contribution, bringing about a law of some articles and continuing the same situation. But is that what we need to do? Clearly it's not. What we need to do is take the opportunity through the crisis, through the memoranda, without it being the demand of the great reform, to do the reform, and that is what we are starting to do. Most of you are old parliamentarians here in Parliament. You know that this is the beginning of a great struggle to complete the reform and that you should contribute rather than simply oppose and only opposition to the opposition. We have heard Vice-Presidents speaking on behalf of 12 billion. Of course, you're saying that to make a setback, I imagine, and not why it's coming out of nowhere. You say arbitrary numbers. I was gonna tell you 20 billion dollars, and you don't say 30?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u598	It's 12.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u599	You don't mind. The risk and the bias, but also the misinformation and confusion you are going to create, do not pay tax, because, if they were to pay, we would have solved a significant part of the tax delay we have and would have been happy by the Minister for Finance. We hear a lot of times about Hardouvel's mail, and I wonder, is there any? Because in the elections you told us there was no mail from Hardouvelis. Now you accept it, but you are not saying that the Hardouvelis mail, in all its three parts, reaches 4.4 billion meters for a year and not for three, for which is the 5.4 billion-dollar programme, in which we vote tomorrow, with you to oppose it. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few examples, because you are talking about the low and medium-sized professionals and farmers that they pay more. I told the committee and I will repeat two figures. A free trader, a shopkeeper, a craftsman with EUR 20,000 net taxable income, with the existing law, namely the previous one, Law No 4172, yours, a 26% tax plus contributions of EUR 5.300 together - because the Minister said that tax and insurance is going together - it is EUR 10,600. With the young man, the one we vote on tomorrow night, and you report to us, 20,000 net income for 22% tax is 4,400 euros. And 20,000 by 26,95% contributions are 5,390, a total of 9,790 euros. For a free professional, not the scientific branches, but all the other OAUs, net benefit of EUR 810. Take an example of 10,000 euros, so that you do not get confused with the figures: 2,600 and 5,400 contributions are 8,000 euros. Now, 10,000 by 22% and 26.95% is 4,895 euros. For a professional with 10,000 net income there is a profit of 3,105 euros. Let's say something about the farmers. A farmer with an income of 6,000, with a grant of 10,000, the basic of which is 3,000, is taxed 2,080, the same with the number you voted on in 2013. However, for 2014 and 2015, we had the exemption of subsidies, a tax of EUR 780. With the new tax bill, there is a zero tax rate, 1,980 minus 2,000 tax rebates. Say another benefit, a benefit of EUR 2.080 from your own law, dear colleague, or from the previous one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u600	The insurance contributions why are you hiding them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u601	Insurance contributions from 1,000 went to 1,300 euros. You're absolutely right. He removed 300 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u602	The imputed income is 9,000, home and car.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u603	For the farmer, to get an example of 17 000, and a grant of 15 000, there is a benefit of 200 euros, without taking into account the wife's mistress, the benefit of which is EUR 1,300. I'll give you the numbers and see them. Ladies and gentlemen, we have waited four days for the committees to make a proposal. But you don't care about this. You are concerned with the election of the President, who took you four months to hold elections. You've dealt with the youth conference to break it down, of course. You had your conference and you were confusing yourself for hours to get results. You don't have to deal with the facts of this place. You've finally found a new job. You are concerned, and this is your interest in this period, how you will appeal your Chief to the female sex. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know if you will achieve this, but you will normally get rid of it, get in the Chamber, you will help resolve the problems of our country, make a constructive and substantial opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u604	The Minister for Education, Mr. Friends, has asked for the floor. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u605	Ladies and gentlemen, I have to make a very small speech of a historical nature because a historical inaccuracy has again been repeated today, to stay in low tones. The neonazist spokesman, who spoke earlier, argued that "the labour legislation and in particular the establishment of IKA is a task of the national government of Ioannis Metaxas". The truth is completely different. Labour law, labour law and insurance law, which was actually done in the Middle War, became under weight and after major labour mobilisations - which, as you know, were victims, great syllables of tobacco workers and other workers - the best known is in Thessaloniki in May 1936 - but there was also a series of labour mobilisations, with the climate of refugee at that time. Very serious social problems with refugees were created and the state had to take care of them. So history says that in 1931 the Labour Housing was created and in 1932 - with a Venizelos government - it was established eight hours ago in our country. In 1934 the IKA was founded. It is the Tsaldari government, with the first president of the then young preacher of sociology, Panagiotis Kanellepoulou, the later Prime Minister of the country. In 1935 the first collective labour agreement was established in Greece. All of this is before the peculiar form of fascism, the military status of Ioannis Metaxas comes into our country. It is important to say this because in school manuals the inaccuracies from the propaganda of the Nazi side have also been invaded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u606	Thank you, Minister. Mr Charakopoulos, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u607	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Varoufakis' successor, the Minister for Finance told us that after the adoption of these measures, the insurance and tax bills, the country enters a virtuous cycle with investments. I will take it as a high level of British humor, in which the Minister likes it, because only as a joke can that be heard. After the vote of the new tax-payer and those businesses that had not left Germany or Bulgaria, Minister, they will be running away. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras' speech yesterday proved to be lost to this government and the cigarette, whatever it had left. Why, how can one describe the Prime Minister's words, that the national pension of EUR 384 guarantees old dignity? How can it be explained that cuts will be made and the taxes of billions will be in place, and the citizens will be won over and over? How can it be justified that 90% of the insured are not affected when everyone is affected, especially the younger and the weaker? Here science really raises hands and words lose their meaning. Who is mocking who, but who is now convinced of such a lie, except perhaps the MPs of the Couple, who until yesterday refining the deaf and today suppressing the camel of vague? But society doesn't believe you anymore. We said that the liar in the first year rejoices, the second is sweating out of agony, because he knows that soon they will send him to his proper place. And that in your case won't be long. So, in the middle of the weekend, you come to the end of another Eurogroup, to bring the insurance bill, without financial and proportional documentation of what you propose, with the economy and the country once again with the back wall, because of your inability, with your funds empty and wages and pensions back into the air, because of your irresponsibility, with banks still having capitals controlls, because of your own tutorial policy, with the Greeks losing their optimism and hope, because of your own dissolution policy. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister had spoken of a resurrection of the people with the Resurrection of the Lord. Instead, today, you are urging the people to lift up at the bottom of the silver cross, to raise a gulgot without a resurrection. Because the measures you propose do not have tomorrow. They erase every development perspective and we will soon find ourselves in a worse situation. Because these measures are part of the same wrong and destructive philosophy that governs your entire government route. They punish those who produce, those who stayed in the years of the crisis, those who are the axis of productive Greece. As fans of the "carranic" doctrine: "The career is cholera", you decided to unleash scientists, self-employed, professionals and farmers. Especially the last, Mr. Ministers, good faith or buried by your thick words, to a large extent, have voted for you. And now, not only are you hitting them unrelentingly, but you're mocking them in front of their eyes. You increase to 20% the insurance contributions on taxable income, an increase of up to 300% compared to their current contributions. You are raising the rate of health insurance to 7% of the taxable income from 2.5% currently in force. And you appear as a lure to the national pension of EUR 384 that will be paid to pensioners after 2031. Finally, in spite of the recent commitments made by the Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, to the representatives of the Thessalonian farmers in Maximos, when he remembered the shackle Farsalon and the tsipouro Tirnavos and today gets bitters from the farmers. And with a night-old amendment, as you are now accustomed to, you are putting your hand from the first euro on agricultural subsidies. The EUR 12 000 limit applies only to green and connected. Is that what the Minister for Rural Development meant when he said that up to 12 000 euros are not taxed? Ladies and gentlemen, you will tell me, here you have said more. Is that what you'd be stuck with? As you have said to the military and those who serve in the Security Body who, like the judges, see that special allowances are not taken into account in calculating pensions. Their pensions will be reduced to 40%. I am thinking, ladies and gentlemen, of all those young people and the young people who believed you, who have voted for you, who have still danced when you defeated the elections or when you held that incredible referendum. I wonder how they feel now, now that they realize you're sacrificing them to get your little-party equations out of you. You check the basic pensions by 30-35%, which hope that they will at some point get the supplementary pensions, and up to 60%. But what should weak charges such as disabled people who will see their pensions reduced or those who receive widow’s pensions in which heavi axes fall? What will the low-pensioners say, to whom you have been cutting off the ESS since this year? These are the works and days of the "first time left", of the socially sensitive, who, as a opposition with a lot of ease, defeated every political opponent as an unexplainable, as "Germanchos", indifferent to the pain and difficulties of the weak. The solution, ladies and gentlemen, to the insurance policy lies in development. And development only creates a private initiative. Unfortunately, the government also fires the private sector with this bill, which is why it has to leave an hour ago, because it deprives the country of its hope of getting out of the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u608	Thank you. Mr. Papalieu, SYRIZA Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u609	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately in this debate on an institutional bill by the spokesmen of the New Democracy and PASOK continued the motto of what is known. Again, there have been unrealistic cries, unreasonable and inaccurate references, unreasonable descriptions and, of course, contradictions, with the top view of the bill as one-way energy and others as imposed by regulation lenders. But let's come to this bill. I'll focus on his insurance leg. Ladies and gentlemen, the current social security system is not a system. They're bricks and horns that are stray. It is unsustainable, fragmented, irrational, ineffective and therefore unsustainable and socially unjust. Moreover, the situation of the insurance funds is uncertain, because of their well-known management for years, of the criminal PSI, including the dramatic decline in employment, non-formal forms of work, prolonged unemployment, black uninsured work, wages and pensions, the inability to pay insurance contributions from thousands of insured persons, in particular from freelance professionals, and the widespread opinion of many insured persons that the payment of insurance contributions will go hand in hand, since they will never receive a pension. These factors make the draft law on the reform of the insurance system absolutely essential, given the certainty that, if this reform is not promoted, there will soon be new horizontal pension cuts. In addition, there are communiqué obligations imposed by financial arrangements under the reformed insurance system to allow the account of creditors to come out, but in fact they also touch structural, structural parameters. All this without the general reservation of equivalent measures and a general equivalent, part of the creditors' requirements, i.e. an overall reform of the insurance system, documented and quantified. In this overall reform, the current government takes part in this draft law, attempting to alleviate and reduce creditors' requirements and to integrate the Memorandum Responsibilities in a fruitful manner within an institutional framework that ensures elements of equality and social justice. Thus, the intervention of the Greek Government has two legs. One is to respect the agreement, which became a law of the State by a large majority in August 2015, and the other concerns building a real social security system, combining economic sustainability and social justice. In addition, this is also a constitutional requirement. The Constitution ensures the institution of social security, which is an organisational element directly linked to the principle of the social state, but also to the principles of social solidarity, equal participation in public burdens and proportionality. The above principles are being pursued by this reform with the establishment of a single system for the award of pension benefits. In this respect, there could be no question of an insurance reform without the removal of the many different and sometimes unjustified arrangements which undermine the institution of social security itself, both economically and socially, by depriving him of it. Unjustified early pensions are a clear example. In this context, the draft law is the principles of equality and social and transgenic justice, aiming at the economic viability and social efficiency of the insurance system, in addition to the rationalisation of the system, through the uniform treatment of insured and further saving costs, without harming the weakest social strata. There is an indicative section on the social security system: the creation of a single social security institution. The Unified Social Security Institution, which receives flesh and bone, with the inclusion of all existing institutions - main, subsidiary, one-off benefits - with uniform rules for old and new insured persons, for both the private and public sectors, for both contributions and benefits. The second element is the safeguarding of the level of the current pensions, which is achieved by maintaining for each pensioner the so-called personal difference. The third element is the introduction of uniform rules for all, old and new insured persons, on how both pensions and contributions are calculated. The introduction of a national pension, which, based on the current data, equals 60% of the average income, amounts to EUR 384 for those with twenty-years of work and is paid without income criteria, and is financed by the State budget and not insurance contributions, so the state guarantees it. The national pension therefore acts redistributively as a protection shield against poverty and the long-term unemployed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Finally, the payment by all insured persons of insurance contributions of 20% on the net taxable income of each insured person ensures a fair distribution of the insurance costs, depending on each's financial capacity, by establishing a link between income, insurance contributions and benefits. This is a level playing field, of course, in view of the fact that there are professional groups and that there are also the nature of the work that imposes this downturn. This provides for specific arrangements for individual social groups, such as free professionals and farmers, for a transitional period of up to five years - up to the end of 2021 - in order for the new system for calculating insurance contributions to be fully implemented. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] In addition, the minimum basis for calculating these contributions, both free of charge and farmers, will be 70% of the minimum basic salary. The same gradual increase in insurance contributions and the same basis of calculation apply, on a pro rata basis, to those insured as self-employed persons in the OGA. Their insurance contribution from 1-1-17 will be determined on the basis of net taxable income from the agricultural activity pursued. One final comment. The bill is introduced in the midst of the protracted economic crisis and the country's surveillance regime. The difficulties for citizens are therefore self-evident, but also the need to reform the socio-security system is self-evident. However, it is extremely challenging - I am finishing - to hear voices from those wings, New Democracy and the PASOK, which in fact are responsible for the current situation, for the looted insurance funds, for the lack of a social security system. And this recurs monotonously, unfortunately in all fields. Where the government attempts institutional changes, opposition parties, in particular the New Democracy and the PASOK, "go on tiles", in fact, with the unique neoliberal sword, lined with pension compassion. Those who have cut twelve cuts in recent years! Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u610	Thank you. Mr Alexiadis has the floor for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u611	Thank you, Mr President. Be sure I will make no personal mention in my speech, so as not to be lost after meaninglessly in various personal references and "I said this" and "I was buried" and "give me" and "do not disagree" and others. Political questions, of course, I will ask, because we are hearing a great deal of criticism here, and when you are criticising, you must be prepared to answer political questions. Alas, if some want to hide behind the political responses they must give and do not give in to this Chamber. I normally spoke about the articles in the bill and list the very many positive points it has, the too many comparisons, the too many tables we have prepared, to which we compare what we have in our legal system with what we are bringing. But here, unfortunately, also in the Committee on Economic Affairs, which I have followed, and in plenary today, what I see is that instead of the opposition to criticise individual articles, it repeats the criticism of the election period, it goes back to the general and does not answer fundamental political questions. What political system has led things here and should we bring this bill today? What political staff, what economic policy, what development model? Who brought the insurance system here? The Minister who sits here struggling and made a difficult negotiation and takes criticism and attacks from those who advertised 'yes'? Is he the one who brought things here, or are the ones who are pulling our fingers and telling us that it's wrong? Let's go out and say, if these measures were wrong, what were we supposed to do? If not these measures, what measures? Because we are constantly listening to a criticism, a whim, a catastrophe. Political proposal? None. Alternative political solution? None. Of course, I understand the political embarrassment that exists in some, because they want to hide their political slogan, which is 'fast return to yesterday', because they want to manage the power they have left, with the known benefits and the known situations, which have been recorded in the memory of the Greek people. They want to return to yesterday to continue that policy. Fortunately, the people have a memory and he understands that we cannot go back to yesterday and assign to the civilian staff who has led us here to take us out of these problems, for which he is now denouncing the government. We hear criticism of a thousand two things. We have heard criticism - the Minister of Finance has not been able to answer - and from the point of view of the Communist Party of Greece on the issue of tax immunity for shipping. You have also said so in the Committee on Economic Affairs. I am amazed that, while I responded, you are bringing it back to plenary. I understand the reasons for the communication. You asked a question like a Communist Party of Greece and we replied as a Ministry of Finance with evidence. And please bring in our answer. Does it or does it not occur that in 2015 compared to 2014 and in previous years the shipping sector has paid far more taxes than it was paying?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u612	Hey, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u613	Did he pay less?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u614	Hey, no! Seventy-five million euros. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u615	Fine. You may not be happy with that too. Probably had to pay a lot more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u616	Hey, no! Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u617	Half a day, they're pulling this off!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u618	That's enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u619	I imagine you do not match those circles abroad, which the Greek shipping industry wants to tax on that level, which is no longer competitive.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u620	Hey, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u621	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u622	We should also give them subsidies!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u623	It's another thing about the political lie, it's another thing about the political element.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u624	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u625	The political element says that, based on the information we have received from you, they have paid more tax. Not the one we should have agreed on. But not what you're saying, they didn't pay any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u626	Unnecessary oil they're getting! Sixty-five tax exemptions have!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u627	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u628	It's a challenge!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u629	We'll talk about this. With regard to taxation, I think it is challenging to hear criticism from those who were in the two hundred and twenty-one Members who voted for the agreement, namely No.4336, on articles that were then passed and we are now implementing them. And I remind you about the tax issues: has our obligation to increase the rent tax then been voted on? And they said various parrots and various media that we would do that since 2015! It did not happen in 2015, it happened in 2016. Was that our obligation? And now we who are implementing the law that has been passed by two hundred and twenty, and we are responsible for this. Let me remind you that we had to vote on the changes to income tax, on the solidarity levy and on a number of other provisions laid down by the law you voted on. But we are now critical of the New Democracy, PASOK, Potamiou, who voted for these provisions and now they say 'no, you shouldn't have done it'. We also hear various teratologies, because some make their speech depending on what the 20.00 or some media say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u630	You've done away with it! You're doing great!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u631	We have heard here and heard in the committee that tax revenues are falling apart, that the deadlines and other nice fairy tales are being 'expanded'. So let's see what the evidence is about these things. Let us see the figures from the report by the General Secretariat of Public Revenue, which was submitted to Parliament and discussed in the Committee on Economic Affairs at its meeting on 20 April. Let's see, then, how we increased revenue, not from small and medium-sized layers, but from large businesses, from large tax evasion and smuggling: Page 21: "Public income aid: Prepayments from DIO taxes and control centres: 31.67 billion, increased compared with 2014 by 3.4%." On page 31 below: ‘Fight against tax evasion: Increase in receipts from full and partial controls of the CCIMP, the Great Rich Tax Control Centre’, not a small DU, ‘14.87% compared to 2014, increase compared to 2014, receipts of 2015 amounting to 344,61 million against receipts of 300 million in 2014’. We continue on page 35, from the same report. I would remind you that the report is not from the SYRIZA Documentation Office or from our friendly media, but it is from the General Secretariat of Public Income. It says, therefore, within: “For the Great Rich Tax Control Centre: The average collection from full CIFF controls was formed at similar levels in 2014, 557 000 per case and in 2015 was 602,000 per case, contrary to the average collection by some controls, which showed significant improvement.” Note the numbers: 937,000 per case in 2015 compared to 159,000 in 2014. And I repeat the number: 937,000 per case in 2015, compared with 159,000 in 2014! Why are they doing this? Because we do not follow the practice of our predecessors in tax evasion and smuggling. We activate the mechanisms in a specific direction rather than to cover our political friends and to settle the cases of various things, both on the one hand and on the other. We are also doing this because we have a certain direction. And we do the other thing: we're looking for the Treasury wardrobes and we find laws. We found a law amazing, 2012, and that's good for you to vote for. But the political question is - and will someone answer from New Democracy and the PASOK - how did this law also happen since 2012, but has it never been implemented? Do you know what had to be implemented? We did it now, the ministerial decision came out. A decision had to be made and affixed, installed, on the floating means of transport input-output monitoring systems and electronic positioning systems, GPS, and all this was sent electronically to the center. Why, then, have these things not been done for so long while the law was passed? [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, very briefly. Give me a little more time. Some will say that this was in 2015 and now, in 2016, the revenues are falling apart. Some have already told the committee that the revenues are falling apart in 2016. I can't understand it. I will submit to the Minutes, for there to be the provisional information in April 2016 of the Collections Directorate of the General Secretariat for Public Revenue, which is very clear. I am not talking about the accounting officer's account, which has various things in mind, which are not purely tax, such as bond yields, state aid and various other matters. I'm talking about tax revenue and customs revenue. In April 2014, the total revenue was EUR 2,999.545, in 2015 it was EUR 2,945.231, while in 2016 it was EUR 3,031.812. And because some will hurry and tell the committee that 'you are doing this because you are reducing your refunds', to say that this is pre-returned. With regard to tax refunds, because we do not have them on purpose low, I should like to say that in 2014 the refunds were EUR 202.550,000, in 2015 they were EUR 147,527,000, while in 2016 they were EUR 215,892,000. And I close with the figures again for 2016, saying that the first quarter of the revenue before deduction for the whole quarter was 14.9 compared with the budget target of 14.69, that is, more than the budget targets. Refunds made were EUR 978 million compared with a target of EUR 916 million. So leave the paraphilis there, too. The same is true of late payments to the State. I analyzed it in committee. I'm going to put this in the Minutes too, to stop this parafiscality. And it turns out that the overdue public debts also go much better, as far as collectivity is concerned, than in previous years. We as a government seriously, responsiblely and above all with full awareness of the citizens' problems - of course with mistakes and delays, we are not perfect - are fighting the battle, with full awareness of the debt to the citizen and society and taking the responsibility for us. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Trif Alexiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u632	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u633	Staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u634	It's a matter of substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u635	Yes, but according to the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u636	Allow me for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u637	You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u638	As the Minister referred to taxation, we will tell him about the numbers he gave, the shipowners. In 2015, shipowners gave 17.6m euros, this glossy amount! And you're snooping? For the 17 million? Easy! Let's give the people, the worms! Easy! The point is that these are the one-day duty-free oil that they consume on ships and nothing else. And do you have the nerve to say that you increased the revenues from the shipping tax? Eliminate tax exemptions. Tax them also the immunity status they have and do not compost for 2 million euros that you have received above. In the face of the EUR 1.5 billion you are now saying that the Greek people must pay tax and 1.8 from indirect taxation, eh, it is a challenge.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u639	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u640	Minister, to avoid repeating the same thing, I will give you the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u641	I, although I cannot respond to the on-the-job, because I did not fully understand it, will I answer the political question, because our disagreement is political. I replied to your argument that nothing has changed. Since 2014, there has been an increase in taxation in the shipping sector and what you have said is only a source of tax. As you know, there are many sources of taxation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u642	It's your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u643	The answer is for the specific tax you have asked. That's why I answered. I've got a lot of pussies, but I'm always an expensive guy. I'm responding to this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u644	The rest of you say there's no evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u645	I understand you don't want me to hear it, but I'll say it. In 2014 and 2015, they paid more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u646	Two million.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u647	That is what we agree at least. It's a good start.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u648	They increased their fleet. That's why they paid 2 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u649	It was only a tax. There are other taxes. I, too - and I have said so to the committee - said that another thing is to disagree on the politician and on the mathematics.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u650	Mr Koutsukoukos, Member of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u651	I must say, Mr President, that I am not happy at all, as I am succeeding in the Minister at Step, who said that the worst is over and the worst. The worst is confirmed by this very bill. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] It's a bill that's two in one: tax and insurance. It is a deadly mixture that kills everything creative, productive left in the Greek society, because it is part of a plan of a violent budget adjustment of 12.5 billion, which we consider to be unnecessary. I reply in this way to Mr Chakaloto, who has a lot of courage from this one, the Step in asking us what we say about the IMF. The man who called the IMF to come here, by letter, to come in June, the government who invokes what the IMF says about the debt, asks us what we say about the IMF! Well, it's a lot of nerve.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u652	No story! Six years ago the IMF came!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u653	Kastelorizo. "Wake up, Santa"!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u654	Giorgakis Papandreou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u655	It's too much courageous to tell us here, by this Stepma, he's proud left, who kept the tax-free at 8,600. What were we doing with it at 9,900? The Left of the Left, Mr. Minister? [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] And let me tell you something else. You are still proud that you have fought against neoliberalism for national pensions. When we forged it, with Mr. 3863/2010, what did you and your colleagues say here from this Step? That this was a disgraceful of the insurance system, and we led to a demolition of the lower pensions. Now that you and her basics are baptizing nationally is the battle against neoliberalism? Definitely, Argits! This strife has got to stop somewhere. We have a bill that makes huge cuts, huge twists and is baptized as reform. In fact, the left-wing people are pleased to make this reform. Ladies and gentlemen, it is another thing to make cuts when you receive 36 billion deficits on an annual basis, as it was in 2009, and then bring in a reform to balance the system with No.3865/2010. You fought her while making organizational changes to three main funds. He built the system with uniform rules and went with transitional provisions by 2060. It took the credit of the European authorities as a reform that ensured sustainability. And it is another thing to overthrow these basic rules, the result of historical conquests and struggles of the workers unions of the socialist forces, in the name of a violent fiscal adjustment. Why are you doing this? Not to say that you're making horizontal cuts, like us, because we're not the same, the Minister says. Of course we are not the same, Minister. You're too much worse. In the name of this financial adjustment you make this overturn. You say to us: 'We have created the deficits?' Of course you did not create them, but you knew in 2015 what the deficits of the insurance system were when you said you would give the thirteenth pension. You knew it. It was written. And when we fought to reduce these deficits, to ensure the sustainability of the system, to create a balance, which represented the deficits in the tripartite funding that the state had firmly put in place, you were fighting us here for any policy we did. You say "we did not overturn anything in 2015, we inherited the pathogens of your own rule in the forty years of Postpopulation". It's like before the M.O., the junta, the Civil War, there was a paradise. It took Mr. Friends to intervene - I told the committee - to remind you that the Venizelos insurance bill was made in 1932. I would like to give you the page 22 of the report of the Parliament's Budget Office, which came out the other day, which says that if 2015 had not been disturbed the course that was carved in the Greek economy, we would have had growth and jobs for the first time since 2007. These are your works in 2015. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Giannis Koutsoukos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And because you have created this overthrow, you are now bringing in an insurance'reform' which, firstly, in the name of double taxation, through the increase in contributions, unites the three main funds, which we had established as well as in relation to our lenders, against the troika. What, for example, was the reason to remove the OGA? You are doing so because through increased contributions, you want to impose double taxation. And of course, through this reform, you are also overturning the competitivity of the system. The Minister presented us to the committee - it is in a report which has shared - the rates of replacement. But, oh of the miracle, it sums up the rates of replacement of the main pension to the rates of the subsidiary, to compare them to those of our own system. I have to tell you once again by this Stepma, that the replacement rates under Law No.3865/2010, the so-called "Loverd-Koutromani" law, are going to put them in the Gospel, ladies and gentlemen, because they were percentages far greater than those that give yours cumulatively. And the answer to the question, because you are attempting to make this 'drug' - let me say so - of your Members and the people, is because you want to hide the cut in supplementary pensions. Now, given the examples of the cuts that have to be made up to 30%, I do not want to mention them. We have made them public, they are known and we have invited the Minister, with the specific examples we have given him, to give his own, to see who is telling the truth or lying. I would like to refer to the rest of my time left in the class policy of Mr Tsakalotou and the government of SYRIZA. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know that the income of up to EUR 10,000 has been declared by a million six hundred and eight thousand of our fellow citizens? And if we sum up those who are from EUR 10 000 to EUR 2 000 and those of EUR 2 000 to EUR 50,000, which is caught by changing the scale, I estimate that it will be about two and a half million of whom will get two hundred from the tax reduction. Is that a class policy, ladies and gentlemen? And you're happy about that? And it is possible to provide for the General Accounting Report that you will receive one billion. I would like to ask the Commissioner if he is prepared to give us an answer to this question. Nine hundred million and there's no chance of hitting the big interests? Where are you going to get them from? Of these whacks, you'll get them! Do you know how many people report rent incomes of up to 5,000 euros? About three hundred and sixty-three thousand of our fellow citizens. Are these rich, ladies and gentlemen? They're just people who happened to have a property and rent it. If they receive a rent, you get them plus 4%! They're the ones you get it from. Of the people you took and plus 10% in VAT, you'll get 1% more with the extra measures. Consequently, it is neither progressive nor classic, but deeply reactionary, your reform. The measures would have been unjustified if the Greek economy had not been overturned. It is not shameful that Mr Tsakalotos - who has denounced us of overtaxation by Greek citizens, when he was the rapporteur of SYRIZA in the budgets - is bringing an additional overtaxation, which, as the evolution of the undeclared public debts - leads to an absolute inability to pay Greek citizens. That's why your system will collapse, and that's why you'll bring us additional measures here - both outgoings and listens - to disprove yourself. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u656	Thank you, Mr. Kutsuko. Mr Stoyannides, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u657	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, some Vice-Presidents claim that the insurance system has been derailed in the past year. Anyone who claims that the insurance was derailed over the last year, is either irrelevant or pretends to be irrelevant. Last week, from this step, the former Minister of PASOK, Mr. Giannitsis, who was Minister of Labour in 2001 for those who do not know it, was invited to committee by PASOK and from Potami as experts. So what did Mr. Yannitsis say to us? He told us that between 2000 and 2009 80% of the public debt created was due to insurance. Who were the government this decade? In 2000-2004, PASOK, 2004-2009, the New Democracy. Thanks to the efforts of these governments, what has been done in insurance, so that we do not forget. Ladies and gentlemen, we are called upon to vote on provisions on insurance, which bring about a fundamental reform for the first time. There is no doubt that the proposed reform of the social security system is in line with the constitution and the European commitments of the country, while at the same time ensuring the right of every citizen to insurance, decent living, the sustainability of the social security institutions. The reform is also governed by all the basic principles: the principle of proportionality, the principle of proportionality, the principle of confidence in the citizen, the principle of solidarity between generations and the principle of supply. On the one hand, it is clear from the draft law that there is a balance between the reasonable costs of living of the citizen and the sustainability of the social security system and, on the other hand, between the budgetary needs of the country and the maintenance of the State's guarantee responsibility towards the social security institutions. The reform under way is necessary, and we have dared and attempted to do so. We all know the deadlock of our insurance system. We need to see the reality. The current situation is as follows: First of all, the social security institutions' incomes have declined dramatically in recent years. There has been a dramatic increase in unemployment, flexible forms of work, an increase in one-sided employment time from six to nine months - you have decided - to extend the application of part-time employment, to reduce pay other than the public sector and the private sector, since 751 we have been in 586. Act of Ministerial Council of 2012. Don't forget her. So all this has brought about a reduction in the revenues of the funds. Similarly, the reduction in employment, the reduction in the employment intensity and the reduction in the wages of workers has led to a reduction in insurance contributions. We also all know that the reserves of the funds have been significantly reduced through the PSI process, in which Greek social security institutions, whose assets - available and Greek government bonds - have been reduced by 11.8 billion. The loss to social security institutions amounts to 6.3 billion. This was equivalent to 45.9% of the total assets of all the funds, as their resources decreased by 47%, around 9 billion and bonds by 42.8%, about 2.8 billion. It is clear from the above that the funds do not have any money. In this situation we also have to deal with the sloppy pensions that have been observed, due to uncertainty about the future arrangements of the insurance system. This uncertainty was caused by the spasmist and sloppy moves by the previous governments, who, instead of developing a serious legislative initiative, have been blocked. Thus, today, the number of pensioners is gradually converging with the number of people employed, and the demographic problem also contributes to this. In recent years, pension expenditure has escalated. The funds have had large deficits and the difference between revenues received annually in favour of a principal pension and the corresponding pension benefits has become even more pronounced. This annual deficit also shows the amount of State funding required annually to cover the cost of main pensions. The existing system requires that the State budget supports more than 9% of GDP annually. This necessary financing takes more than 35% of the tax revenue collected annually. The previous governments have been responsible for this situation. Insurance has been stirring the country for more than twenty-five years. No one had the courage to intervene forcefully and to ensure its viability. Changes since 2010 have been an incomplete reform that, in common, did not put the insurance on a viability path. We have a distribution social security system that depends on demographic and economic changes. No one has dealt with the observation of the basic parameters that form this system in order to make timely corrective changes. All the system's pathogens were maintained, the individual reforms took place every two, three years - every two, three years new insurance, you know, 2003, 2008, 2010, 2012 and it goes on to say - while they carried the weight of adjustment in the long term, maintaining in the medium term the high budget deficits of the system. The insurance has also been subject to the customer's liability. Thus, favourable conditions were observed for retirement and the introduction of strong job substitutability incentives, incompatible rates of replacement with the economic conditions in the country, differentiation in the rules for contributions and benefits with system fragmentation and fortifying legislation, long transitional period of application of the reforms, distortion of the system's return rules through the successive horizontal cuts implemented in recent years. The accident is that the account is being called upon to pay him not those responsible - that is, the PASOK and the New Democracy - but the Greek citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, we must reform our pension system in order to put it on a sustainable track. As many political forces as possible must be involved in this effort. We owe it to the next generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u658	Thank you, too. Mr. Apostolos Vésiropoulos, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u659	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we need an excess of shame and a moral deficit in order for the Government of Mr Tsipras to present the bill that it brings today as a huge success. In fact, the country and the citizens are called upon to pay another high account created by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. Why, ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, did you not close the evaluation last November? Why have we arrived on 7 May and the evaluation has not yet been completed? What happened last summer didn't take a class? When will you realize that the delay, the climate of instability and uncertainty has huge costs each time? When will you understand that the supposed negotiation, which is, in fact, a game of delays on your part to manage political time, the only result that has been to raise the account? The time Mr. Tsipras was buying through this so-called negotiation theatre is very expensive for the citizens. We already have a package of EUR 5.4 billion, and we also call for the setting of EUR 3.6 billion preventive measures if the targets are not met. So we have a total of EUR 9 billion and we see. Not only did you not shave any memorials, but you also brought two new and painful memorials within fifteen months. Not only did you not give the thirteenth pension and the increases that you have promised in the unsuccessful memory programme of Thessaloniki, but with the insurance you have brought, there will be reductions in pensions to four hundred thousand young pensioners and three hundred thousand low pensioners who will lose the EAS. With the post-night amendment you have brought, they will, for the first time, pay a low-retirement tax with a pension of EUR 720 and employees with a basic salary of EUR 626, while, to date, they have been covered by the tax, except, of course, the fact that the charges for freelance professionals and farmers, as far as insurance is concerned, will be great and outside reality. Do you think that when someone with an income of EUR 20,000 is forced to pay EUR 10,000, that is 50% of their annual income, on income tax and on insurance contributions, this is a sustainable model? Do you really think this can work? I also understand the difficult position of the Minister of Finance, Mr Chakalotos, who had as a red line not to reduce duty and even to threaten by resignation. Of course, none of you will resign, neither of you will vote against these measures, which we nor we have thought we could ever bring them to Parliament. With the reduction in the tax burden there is a clear burden for employees and farmers without children or a child, but also for pensioners. For employees, farmers and pensioners with a child, the tax deduction is reduced to EUR 1,950 and the tax indirect is formed at EUR 8,863. For employees, farmers and retired singles or without children, but also for their spouses, the tax rebate is reduced to EUR 1,900 and the indirect tax-free is reduced to EUR 8,636. In the Thessaloniki programme, with which you deceived the citizens, you promised a duty-free 12,000 euros. Eventually, even the EUR 9,500 tax-free you could not keep. The myth of the negotiation is over. The government's not negotiating, it's just delaying. He wants to avoid reforms that touch the deep state, choosing to increase citizens' tax and insurance burdens, in order to sustain this state. It puts continuous obstacles to investments for which the competitive process had already been completed. Remind me of the dollhouse played by regional airports, to finally sign a later date, without of course canceling the competition or renegotiation. Let me remind you of the issue of the demilitarisation of the PPA, which was accompanied by the theatre of irrationality with the statements and contradictory and undermining initiatives of the Minister for Maritime Affairs. All of this will be claimed to have signed them with soul pain, as Mr. Spirtz said. You don't hurt, though. Citizens will hurt and hurt. The government's ideas place an obstacle to investment, which is not only linked to a single price to the public, but also to the creation of thousands of jobs. The government has found a way of covering the budgetary gap it itself creates with its policy. It constantly imposes new taxes. How many companies will they be able to withstand the increase in tax rates from 26% to 29%, which was also included in the night's amendment? Ladies and gentlemen, it is time for the government to stop the fairy tale of so-called negotiation because it does not convince anyone. Negotiation with tangible results is the one conducted by the previous government, with tangible results. I would remind you of the reduction of VAT in the focus, the reduction of excise duty on heating oil, the reduction of the exceptional contribution of solidarity. All these reductions were evaporated by Mr. Tsipra's disastrous governance. What results does your Government have to present? The third and most painful memorial of last summer? The fourth memorandum before the gates? The VAT increases? The permanentisation of the exceptional solidarity levy, which is now becoming a new and permanent tax? The Capital Controls? It is also time to stop the tale of the falsification of class policy that you are doing with regard to your choices and tax burdens and the allocation of tax burdens, because with the bill we are debating today, you are imposing greater tax burdens on employees and pensioners with low and middle incomes, on taxpayers who have income from real estate, but also on those who have incomes from hired labour and blocs. At the same time, farmers' insurance contributions are increasing excessively and are an extreme form of wild taxation. From 1 January 2017, not only the OGA shall be abolished, the insurance categories of farmers shall be abolished. Farmers will pay contributions linked to their income - real or imputable - and will increase sharply, reaching 20% in 2022. At the same time there will also be an increase in health contributions of 6.95% on the declared actual or imputable income instead of 2% on the current insurance category. One single example: A farmer with a net income of EUR 9,000 had a total of EUR 1,962 tax and insurance obligations. With today's data, after the vote on this bill, the farmer with an income of EUR 9,000 will pay insurance contributions of EUR 2,430. He will, in other words, pay more than EUR 468. But there are worse things than that. For the farmer without children, the tax-free falls to 8.636 euros. At the same time, however, basic aid, as well as associated and green aid, will be added to the taxable income and will be taxed for the first time over EUR 12 000. I would remind you that, in the original form of the bill, associated and green aid is not included in taxable income, while basic aid was taxed from the amount of EUR 12 000 or more. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras is unable to inspire, form a national reform plan. The two parties that co-govern and form the government majority express the most anachronistic ones. This government is seriously harming the country. The illusions have collapsed, as have the false promises made by Mr Tsipras to overhaul the citizens' vote. They were left with the ballots of hatred and division that he himself produced against his political opponents, but also against the citizens who had an opposing view of his own. This new type of settlement has reached its limits. She was identified with this government and will end with it. The country needs a new start. The Greek society must unite again, gain a high sense of self-awareness. The country needs a large and wide-ranging reforming majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u660	Thank you, Mr. Veyropoulos. The speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Manolakos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u661	The condemnation of the government's policy on insurance and tax law was expressed by bodies called in this Chamber - with the exception of Yannitsis, which you have as a model - but also by mass participation in the militaristic, dynamic gatherings throughout the country, which continue today with the farm, but will continue on Sunday. Now that we're talking about the head of the protesters is in the Constitution and the tail in the Omonia. Our heart and voice are with them. You have not managed, despite your lies and your alchemys, to make the people a partaker in the extermination of social security. That is why there was terrorism yesterday from the employer, with the tolerance of the government, in an attempt to reduce the racing response of workers and the youth who came out in front of the law - looting. However, even the agricultural courts of farmers fighters, although the Prime Minister pledged that you will get them back, you have done so despite the amendments he has tabled twice by the Communist Party of Greece. The fear you're showing you. The struggles will increase, because the majority of the people are not compatible with the impoverishment and stumbling of their lives. However, it is challenging to say that 90% of farmers will not be charged by the combination of tax and insurance. You're lying consciously. You are fooling and causing small and medium-sized farmers. Really, don't you know that over 50% of farmers now don't have to pay the OGA 954 premium today? And you are now trilling the contribution to EUR 2,720 for an income of EUR 10,000, which concerns the majority of farms. Is that how you protect the weak? With their invasion? Is that a reform - incision? Say hello to her! Yes, you give them a slashed crust with the tax, which they won with their race forty days on the streets. But you're grabbing it back increased through the insurance, which is tax. We ask you: A farmer with 10,000 euros of income, when you are gradually grabbing him by 2022 in 27.5%, will he be able to live and grow again with the rest, namely, 7,280 euros? What's gonna stay? Will he feed the family with rice and macaroni when the VAT is in 23%, when he has to pay a contribution to ELGA, when the VAT for fertilisers, seeds, pesticides, feed is in 23%, when he has a special tax on energy, a special fee for sprays, for the UAE, for the aids, for the house, for the stove, for the warehouse, for the cooperative contribution and so much else, which they do not have in your tax? And, of course, pay meds, tests for his health and more. And with courage you say you ensure public health. What kind of state hospitals that break down and operate because of the honor of nurses and doctors? Their finances have been over for some time. So we ask you: Can a small- and medium-sized farmer live, or do you destroy him with an insurance tool? What will remain to continue the agricultural activity when the rule is to spend four and five months to get money from the production it delivers to the mechanic or industrialist? And there are years of suffering from natural disasters or zoonoses and there is no income, and then it will necessarily pay an insurance contribution to 70% of the minimum wage of the unskilled worker, namely EUR 1.339 and so much for the farmer, a total of EUR 2,678. And you forge that as a service. You don't have mercy. Who are you finally kidding? The farmer, who breaks down in dairy production, the farmer, whose Easter hails destroyed much of the production in Evros, Imathia, to Arcadia? And what about the basic pension that 2027 will be zeroed? Yes, that was past by the previous governments to zero the state contribution after stocks and reservations were looted for OGA. But you are hiding that in order to get the EUR 384 national after 2031, the farmer must have paid the new three-fold contribution for a 15-year period, while with the same money today he would have received the reward, about 600 euros. Shame on you to say that the poor, medium-sized farmer will benefit when you are destroying him, because that is what the European Union's common agricultural policy and the third memorandum, which you have all voted on in order to bring together land, production and subsidies exclusively to the large-scale capitalists. They're the ones that'll be fruitful of the primary sector. But, you're ruthless, you're not stopping anywhere, you're tearing down everything he resisted. And I'll say it because with the journalists' strike, it hasn't been known. By Ministerial Decision of Great Thursday, you decided to dismantle the Samos Association of Agricultural Cooperatives. On the basis of Article 3 of the Third Memorandum, you have at one night abolished the law of compelling, selectively for Samos, by hitting Samian winegrowers on the back - you did not ask them - and by causing the people of Samos to rise up. All institutions unanimously draw up motions for resolutions of condemnation. Your energy subtle. A great third was passed on the law on cooperatives, which contained the article that was interpreted as you wanted, and on the eve of Easter you made the ministerial decision that you had been prepared for a long time, trespassing every sanctuary and loyal, throwing the will to maintain the compelling of the cooperatives and the society of Samos. It is a great shame and take it back, like this monstrosity called insurance, and it should be called "the felony of the century". Even if the bill is passed, the majority of the people will not compromise their slaughter. This is what you call a one-way, as an alibi, and you are presenting yourself as saviors. Plates you put on the previous ones, who looted the workers' insurance contributions, disapprove them, as you despised them from the memorials, and you are their continuity and present your quarrels. In other words, you are serving the capitalists and imperialist centers themselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u662	Thank you. The Deputy Minister of Finance, Alexiadis, has requested the floor, in order to support two amendments, on arrangements for the submission of a final declaration, the reimbursement of employees' services tax for the financial year 2014 by the PPPs, insurance funds, an amendment to Article 5 of Law 4172/2013 and an exemption from the EMI for 2015 and 2016 for buildings within the Regional Units of Lefkada and Ithaca, which have proved to have been damaged by the earthquakes of November 2015, as well as on the marketing fees. Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u663	Thank you, Mr President. These are two amendments. The first is the general number 422 and special 17, which we summarily regulate the issue of electronic submission of final declarations for the insurance funds, which have not been able to do so. We are clarifying the sources of income tax, so that taxpayers do not have any problems. On this point I must tell you that there is also a note in relation to the report by the General Accounting Office of the State, where there is no reference to this provision, but from this provision there is no charge on the State budget, on the contrary, it is a rule from which revenue will be generated. So we believe that the lack of reference in the report is by mistake. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] The third point concerns alleviating the earthquakes affected in Lefkada and Ithaca from the EACH from the earthquakes. The fourth issue is the question of traffic charges. We are giving new opportunity for 2016, while we have collected the traffic charges for 2016 - I remind you that we have taken about 8 million more than the target - taxpayers to take traffic charges for either a month, for three months, or for the rest of the year. At this point we also have a legal correction for this amendment. It is the amendment with a general number of 421 and a special 16, which we are talking about on tax-free and how the tax burden on the taxpayer is reduced on the basis of the family situation. We are clarifying the taxable income, what exactly we tax individual agricultural business activities. There is a legal correction for a competence that has already been transferred to the Secretary-General of Public Revenue and the simulation of the tax rate on profits from business activities for those who keep simple books with those who keep bibliographic books. There is also a legal correction to this amendment, so that there is no problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u664	Mr President, I would remind you that Mr Kaklamani's assurance in the whole House this morning that other amendments to the Bureau will not be accepted. I'm saying that now that it's sounded that way. This Mr Alexiadis didn't sound bad. I am now saying this for an amendment which, if we understood correctly, does not have any problems, it is - if we understood it correctly, again - to prevent any more possible, on the basis of the assurance of the Bureau, by the mouth of Mr Nikita Kaklamani, that it is the Bureau's commitment not to bring any further amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u665	Mr. Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u666	Ladies and gentlemen, it is good to remember that we went to the September elections, having signed at least with you who are in the European course of our country an agreement, the last part of which we specialize today. The Greek people, with their vote, authorized us to implement it and as we had made a commitment in the run-up to the elections, we do so with as much softer consequences as possible. In particular, as regards the rural area with the bill we are discussing, the farmer ceases to be a second-class citizen. It is a historic day for the farmer for two reasons. Firstly, because individual tax-free income is introduced and secondly, because the farmer also enjoys a lower national pension. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] These are very serious regulations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u667	You go out and tell the farmers who are now out in the Constitution and who are shouting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u668	Please. We've heard you and you'll hear from us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u669	Please! Whoever wants to, let's get out of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u670	In fact, ladies and gentlemen, with the combination of the arrangements we bring to the tax insurance and the tax system, which they themselves had insisted on in their mobilisations, there are not only no consequences, but it will benefit 90% of Greek farmers. I'll see you around. What have we found, ladies and gentlemen, in tax? The n.4172/2013 that you voted for as co-governers New Democracy and PASOK, according to which all revenues from the first euro are taxed at 13%. That is to say, for the net income declared for 2014 of EUR 1.35 billion plus EUR 2.6 billion, which is aid, farmers would pay a tax in 2015 of EUR 511 million. While with our intervention, with L.4328/2015 on the duty-free payment of more than EUR 12 000, farmers paid EUR 225 million of the EUR 511 million that they would pay in your own regulation. Colleagues of the New Democracy and PASOK, don't cut yourself...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u671	Let go of them 'will'. Lies are over! 'They' and 'they' and 'they'. There are no "will"!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u672	I heard you. You'll hear it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u673	Are you afraid to hear the truth?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u674	Quiet! Mr. Besyropoulou, quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u675	Now you're taxing it all!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u676	Do not cut back on aid, because the relevant joint ministerial decision by Kucela and Scandalides, as well as the clarifications of the Sabbath Circuit, mention agricultural aid and compensation as profits for the purpose of determining agricultural income. I give the relevant documents, ladies and gentlemen. [[At this point, the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Evangelos Apostolos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] For the 2015 incomes, which are now taxed, there is no change in relation to what is happening and will therefore now pay for the 2015 incomes of EUR 225 million, instead of - I repeat - the EUR 511 million, which would pay your own regulations in 2016. If we did not accept the July agreement, just as it was formulated - and I repeat, we have all voted for it - we would have tax from the first euro of 20% and 26%. I don't want to talk about numbers. You understand what impact it would have. Because when I once described these arrangements as "flat-floor" that come, you rose up and raised the world. So what do we do today? We are establishing individual net tax duty, which, for the average agricultural family - a couple with two children - amounts to EUR 9,100, plus an average amount of EUR 1,900 from 50% of non-taxable aid, ultimately the net taxable sum for the farmer amounts to EUR 11 000. I say that because there was something said about aid. 90% of aid - connected, green - and all aid - is a compensatory, agri-environmental - total, that is, over EUR 1 billion is not counted on the taxable material.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u677	The other 1,1 billion euros, what's going on?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u678	So I'm coming...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u679	Mr. Besiropoulos, you spoke and we heard you. Be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u680	This, ladies and gentlemen, means quite simply that 90% of farmers who have declared incomes of up to EUR 11 000 will not pay a single euro, and with the existing ones and what you had set up, they will pay EUR 1.430. So hold the number 1,430 euros that the farmer would pay and does not pay with the regulation that we are bringing. Insurance. First of all, let's get one thing straight. The Prime Minister never said that the autonomy of the OGA would be maintained. He talked about transition, ladies and gentlemen. We didn't talk, we didn't commit. So we must not repeat lies, at least the entire Greek people must be informed. Today, ladies and gentlemen, do you not know that the OGA is facing major problems and I would say that it is bigger than the insurance of all other sectors?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u681	We know. You don't know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u682	We all know that 90% of its expenditure, i.e. 3,35 billion a year, is covered by the state budget, and over 300 000 farmers cannot pay their premiums. There, of course - to say it - we are committed to a long-term arrangement, while the New Democracy, as you know, has proposed withholding the specific amounts from Community aid. However, changes also need to be made to what we are proposing to preserve a favourable framework in relation to the other sectors. We take into account the specificities of the agricultural profession, but also the fact that on the same farm it is possible to employ outside the farmer, his wife and one or more children. Thus, we provide the following for those insured in the OGA or those insured in the OGA. The contribution for pensions, health and rural homes is to be gradually increased from 1-7-2015 to 1-1=2022, which reaches 27% to 20% for pensions, 6.95% for health and 0.2% for the focus on the net taxable income. I repeat: the net taxable income. In fact, it is only for those insured in the OGA who are a minimum insured monthly income, which accounts for 70% of the current minimum basic salary, currently EUR 410 per month. The result is that the monthly contribution from EUR 93 in 2015 will reach EUR 112 in 2022, i.e. an additional EUR 19 per month. This means that the contributions from EUR 1,084 per year will go EUR 1,338, i.e. we will have an increase between six years in depth, because the transitional period is six years, EUR 228 per year, that is, an increase of 20% over all years. So where are you, ladies and gentlemen, the triumphantness you claim? And these contributions, you know, will pay more than 85% of Greek farmers. So instead of the EUR 158 which in 2027, as you know will become zero, if we do not take this intervention, the farmer will receive a pension of EUR 384 that is national plus the corresponding remuneration, which will be paid according to the time of insurance, which will in any case be higher than the one he has received with the current provisions of the GAAP. You know, to these farmers, while accounting for EUR 640, with the proposed arrangement, they do not pay a tax or a single euro, and for insurance they will pay an additional EUR 228, i.e. they earn EUR 412 a year. So for all the farmers covered by the tax, there will be no burden. This negotiation was conducted by us, ladies and gentlemen, and that is what we ensured for Greek farmers. Some may get bored by numbers, but the truth is that these numbers document what is actually coming. And a few words, ladies and gentlemen, about how you are dealing with the other problems of the rural area, especially those of the New Democracy and PASOK. I will only stand in the case of the cooperatives that concern both of you. The Moraite and Short 1993-1996 packages are well known. Since 2002 you have known the Commission's decision on unlawful aid with EUR 500 million and you have done nothing! You have even referred to the competent authorities of the European Union, so that you do not negotiate and give no backing to 1 euro, because they have already become final. And for you, ladies and gentlemen, be sure that responsibility will be sought. The misinformation you made won't pass that way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u683	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u684	Listen, ladies and gentlemen, the atrocity and cynicism with which a PASOK colleague was placed in the House during the recent debate on the cooperatives' law on this matter. He said: “Why are the cooperatives responsible? Didn't the governments give these? From 1993 until today, the Greek state has not paid these recoverys. If you pay them now, the responsibility is purely yours." Please, ladies and gentlemen, what can be done when one hears such positions? That is why you were able to do so, ladies and gentlemen, and that is why the country arrived in this situation. You have finally charged with 3 billion fines and recoveries of the rural area and you know, it is about the total of Community funds on an annual basis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u685	Minister, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u686	But what can be expected of those who, while holding the Presidency of the European Union in 2014, at the same time, sold the feta, the flag of geographical indications not only of Greece, but of the European Union, to third countries and imagine, did not get it. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, we were presiding in the European Union, and we did not get the feeling that it had been initialled for the sale of the feta. Ladies and gentlemen, dig it up. Finally, the Greek people in their vote gave us the mandate to take the country on the difficult but hopeful path that can be opened after our assessment. We know we have other battles to fight, many battles, difficult battles. We have power and knowledge and you can be sure we'll make it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u687	Mr. Amyras from the river has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u688	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know what you have come here today in Parliament, others with a car, others with a leg, others with a machine, but you certainly have seen that Athens is a police officer. And I ask especially you SYRIZA and ANEL MPs, why so many cages outside the Maximos Mansion? Didn't you say and described the previous tyrants when they did the same? What are you? Are you archivals? Why did you close the Zappeion? Why did you close the National Garden for two days? What are you afraid of? The love of the people you fear? The love of the people will find you wherever you are. And cloak to even put on the roof of the Great Maximus, the love of the people will find you, your meaning.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u689	Here we go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u690	But I really wish that your partner, Mr Lafazanis, should not be verified for years as your official, Minister, MP, for the helicopter, because air means are sometimes dangerous.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u691	Why is that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u692	Understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u693	You and Lafasan are worthy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u694	Now that's what you're paying. Now you are fruiting the seeds of hatred that you have launched for so many years in a blind way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u695	What about us?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u696	You, yes, Mr. Comrade. But of course, you have surrendered unconditionally. You're a government on surrender. I don't say it, Mr. Chakalotos says it. Did you read his desperate letter to his counterparts in the Eurogroup yesterday? Listen to what he says: "We have delivered what we promised and in some cases more." What are these "even more"? It's red loans, for example. Red loans, housing, business, he says in his letter. Be more meticulous. We agreed on opening up the entire market for non-performing loans, except for some temporary protection of loans, related to first homes. Congratulations and good for you! Below, on the right hand, I imagine Mr Tsakalotos in the same letter said: "Investors need a clear picture to invest". And on the left hand he signed the provision that increases the taxation of small and medium-sized enterprises from 26% to 29% and even retroactively from 1 January. Three points in the head. Who? The little ones, the Greeks. Wasn't it you who would strengthen the small Greek? More like the multinationals. Oh, the other one? The tax-free? Flag and that, flammor. What did Mr. Chakalotos say on 15 April? "I am not prepared to submit to the Greek Parliament a bill with a tax-free rate of less than EUR 9,100." And from 9,550 euros, you, the government MPs, go to 8,600 euros. But aren't you embarrassed? Aren't you embarrassed? I want to prove to you that I'm a good believer. Dear Minister, Mr Katrugale, I am ready to vote on a provision of your bill, but I do not find it: the reintroduction of the thirteenth pension.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u697	Leave the irony now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u698	Where is he? Are we talking about insurance? Pensions. Where is he? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Oh, now you don't like it. You don't like it. When you meddling the flammur of the thirteenth pension, and we told you to be responsible, to see the finances, to see the finances, then we were the dark agents. You don't know how much Langard and Shoeble love you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u699	Have you been told?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u700	Do all the dirty work and applaud them. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Ladies and gentlemen, instead of hitting the tax evasion, instead of hitting the smuggling of fuel, tobacco, where is Mr Nicoludis, the former Minister? Where'd you disappear him? He had said about EUR 2 billion in the fight against smuggling of tobacco. Mr Mardas had put more EUR 2 billion in revenue - in 2015 I am speaking to you - from combating oil smuggling. Where did these billions go? Where did the thirteenth pension go? However, as far as insurance is concerned, Potami insists that an insurance policy to be sustainable should be set at two feet: the development of demographics, the growth of populations, and, of course, economic development. Where are the measures to support the family? Where are the measures to support entrepreneurship? Taxes, weights, too. But we have tabled a proposal for you. We're in charge. Of course, Mr SYRIZA's colleague - who I do not see now - we are proud to have called on Mr Yannitzsi to come from this Step and speak to us in the language of the truth. However, Minister, we, even now, last minute - because we are naturally not going to vote on this draft law - are proposing a pension that is going to go to three feet. The main pension will be paid by the state. This is the first pillar, as is happening throughout Europe. This pension will be equal to about half the sum of the principal and subsidiary today. The second pillar for a sustainable insurance is occupational pension. To allow journalists, doctors, builders, any professional group to set up its own self-employed, autonomous, self-employed insurance fund. The third pillar, which we propose to you - and it is an optional pension - is supplementary pension. To go to the private insurance company and, of course, to complete its pension.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u701	That's a nice trick!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u702	This is our difference. You're straving around for hearing about private entrepreneurship. Don't you know anywhere else in the world, like here in Greece, SYRIZA, anything to do with business makes giz? Is that why you're increasing taxes on small and medium-sized business? Congratulations! Ladies and gentlemen, the hay ends! Stock's over! Let's get some cloves left, but people don't eat the gossip you feed him!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u703	And it doesn't get fat!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u704	He doesn't eat the gossip you feed him! Your time is over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u705	Ms. Big Economics from the Centro Association has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u706	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for years the insurance system in Greece has been slowing down but stable. Anyway, it's falling apart! In fact, with the entry of the memoranda into our lives, the insurance funds have come into marginal situations. All of us - and above all those who are still paying insurance contributions to keep the company - know that the economic bleeding of the Greeks has now reached such a point that most of us really cannot pay for their insurance contributions. Will the average Greek therefore be consistent with its obligations with the new hard insurance system that we are debating today? I doubt it'll be consistent. An insurance reform like the government's ambition to do requires serious and good planning after dialogue with society and with all actors. But how seriously did the government take the opinions and concerns of society when the bill was put into public consultation for less than three days? Now, as far as the regulation of the bill is concerned, Article 46 is, in my view, the 'currency' of the bill. You'll ask me why. Because this bill for the first time wants insurance contributions to be a percentage of income. In Article 46, however, there is a rule that, on a proposal from the Minister for Labour, a minimum amount of contributions may be entered for categories or branches of undertakings. This article actually enables the Minister - who can at times be competent - to be incapable of acting in a fraudulent manner or simply because, once again, he does not have the revenue figures - to eliminate businessmen in a region or industry completely arbitrary. This is because the objectively implied costs are not only calculated on the basis of income, but also on the basis of an enterprise's hours or geographical position. Let me explain to you: The Minister may propose, for example, that pharmacies, because they have an extended working hours, pay more contributions, or similar businesses located in tourist islands or in mountains hosting ski resorts to pay more, regardless of whether they are ovens, if they are cafeterias, if they are jewelry stores, if they are fur shops, if they sell tourists, if they sell teas. That is, if one sells fur and gets 1,000 euros and the other sells a 10 euro jar, they both have the same insurance contributions. And, of course, the question arises: is this constitutional arrangement? I'm asking you. And in any case, what position can such an article have in an insurance bill? Such changes in the contributions to be paid by certain undertakings should certainly be done by means of a vote of the respective law and not by a 'white' delegation to the Minister concerned. Furthermore, with regard to Article 56, the resources of the ECA come from employee contributions. However, from nowhere does the actual state subsidy arise. In other words, you say that the state guarantees the Greek people's pensions, but you are essentially referring only to national pensions. What if the fund's contributions are not sufficient? What if the FBI doesn't have any money? And in any case, the EUR 384 - which is the national pension - is not, in fact, a pension, but an advance-type allowance. In other words, we are talking about the hunger pension to be given to the impoverished Greeks. And that's right! The one who's never worked to get a discount. How is it possible for a Greek citizen who has paid for so many years maximum insurance contributions of EUR 500 a month to finally receive a poor pension rather than a reward for the years he has paid? The minimum guaranteed pension is EUR 384 and, at the same time, the Minister at the last minute changed a tax section of the bill and now taxfree for a single employee will only be 616 euros a month and retrospectively from 1-1-2016. And I ask, Minister: last night did you think about it? Did you see it in your sleep? Or did you work on a plan? Where's the sense of social responsibility? A left-wing government that said the minimum wage would be EUR 751, will also give the tenth pension. Yes, sir! Good! In fact, who Greek is paid EUR 620 a month and will be able to live decently if he lives alone and is not supported by his parents? But his parents will also pay tax because you will then tell him that he has submissive income after you pay more rent. You already feed and live, so it's not 620 euros, you keep a car, so your income is imputable. My son, when he was a phantom and served at Evros, because we've made him a home for parental services, I paid 1,200 euros. When I went to the tax office, they told me that since he's in private, and you're hosting him at his house, he has to pay 1,200 euros. Why would he pay 1,200 euros? They had us on Evros, too. But he paid 1,200 euros and was unemployed. Of course, very good. With the 620 euros a month can he pay rent and bills and pay taxes? Oh, no. So in what reality do you live to believe that increasingly taxing low-wages is a solution and even waiting for growth? Did you get an example from Maria Antoinette? Because when the world cried out of the streets "bread, bread" he told the courtmen outside Versailles "give them pancakes". But then the constable waited for them and put them in the laptop. You also increase corporate taxation from 26% to 29%. And this in a country where business dies day after day. Basically, you aim to kill middle-enterprise. They're actually half-dead businessmen and you're giving them a charismatic shot. I now bring you, for example, - you may have attended the conference at 'Asteras Pallas' - the design of the Athenian Riviera, which is essentially becoming a huge store. This will essentially lead with mathematical accuracy to the destruction of all small businesses from Faliro to Sounio and all the neighbouring municipalities. What storekeeper will survive with 29% tax, 24% VAT, 100% tax advance and the insurance contributions to the height? Obviously no small business will survive, and obviously the huge stores belonging to multinationals will have the funds to operate with what you are legislating for, while small shops will be closed with rapid procedures. You do not want businessmen, but only carrots and Europeans with the lowest wage and the highest taxes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u707	Ms. Big Economics, you've wasted some time on the way to Stepma, but put an overlap now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u708	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u709	I gave it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u710	And yet another example of the place I belong to and act on for more than forty years. The silverstorm industry is in fact an excellent art that dates back to six thousand years before Christ. We have incredible creations of ancient chrysochia and infinite exhibits in all museums. Can I talk to you at Vergina? Can I talk to Maiandro? Can I tell you the phaestus album in all the museums? Silver goldstorm was the largest source of foreign exchange for our country, until we even enter the euro area now. But now 80% of the labs have been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u711	Please, Mrs. Big Housekeeper. I don't want to interrupt your ostrich, but believe me there's too many in the line.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u712	I'll be done in a minute. I don't want to spoil your mood, but I predict...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u713	No, no, no, you've made us in the mood, but make the epilogue now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u714	I hope you do not have to use the helicopters from the roof of the House to escape the outcry of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u715	The floor is for the Independent MEP, Mr. Gregorakos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u716	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to have all my colleagues in the cabinet, but in particular Mr Katrugalo. A communist minister will hear a poem from Kawafi. I dedicate it to him from my heart. "What a danger to be burnt for nice and great works and to prevent you from enjoying good habits and leaving a roadman for the Sousa," my dear Minister. We all know each other. Especially you. It's a very small world. An explanation, my dear Yannis. You got the easy solution. You compromised and decided to give up all your dreams. I've been taking the left-wing dreams very nicely, and I admire them. But the Left isn't her. He left all of them. We, therefore, also from the outset, also from the dreadful e-mail Hardouvelis, which was really oasis, said that we would not reduce either wages or pensions. Before voting on the memorandum - I can now speak because I am an independent MEP - I had sent a letter to the PASOK organs and to the President of PASOK. I said: "The package of measures that are included in the prerequisites for the new agreement with our partners and creditors, you know that it has been chosen without any serious preparation, without the economic and social consequences being carefully investigated and above all without taking into account the specificities of the Greek economy. I find it inappropriate to see the way in which the issue of farmers' taxation is dealt with." August 2015. Many of you, ladies and gentlemen, are from rural areas. I said that the agricultural sector does not have the necessary productive and economic activity to ensure an adequate level of living. If I go down to the elections next time, I'll take the speech of my dear Minister of Agriculture and put it down. This productive sector falls far short of the developed countries in Europe. It has not proceeded with the necessary modernisation. And we have our responsibilities. We've been government for so many years. Nor does it have the necessary organization that would make it more productive and competitive. 'I believe,' I said, 'Well, that these measures must be put back and recast and that they must be searched for equivalents, bearing in mind that the unreasonable taxation of the agricultural world will not only affect farmers themselves. It will primarily affect the rural economy, productivity and competitiveness. I would like you to know - and I have certainly had the worst aftermath - that I am not going to consent to the adoption of the proposed measures. This is because I have the opportunity to judge and assess whether this proposal serves the needs of the rural economy. Ladies and gentlemen, the dear Mr Tsakalotos, with the terrible red lines and red backpacks, said the terrible thing: 'The worst is over.' We'll be here in a month. We'll be friends. We'll be good friends. We'll never say anything about you. We won't blame you for anything. Neither for worshippers, nor for one, nor for the other. Nothing. These measures you are going through today are terrible. You won't be able to get out anywhere. So, my dear friend, my colleague, I did not go up to this step to conquer your terrible policy. The dead-ends faced by Greek society and facing your government for a year and a half now are unprecedented. What do you want to know? What good is it to find? Which area? Now that we're going to take the measures down, with the taxation of farmers and other social groups and the insurance, we're going to see how much waste the bag is going to get. The excellent relationship you have with the European partners, of course, is going through the greatest test ever. Greece is treated like black sheep. You all call it a special case. Unprecedented dystocia occurs in evaluation. I was now reading some blogs: "Dream was and left". False intervention in the insurance of Mr. Katrugalos is a great monument of culture, micropolarism and populism. Let us, of course, congratulate some journalists, at least having the courage and going out to inform the Greek people. But I will be very happy to have colleagues - because I was also one of those who went to the panels - if they talk to the journalists, who talked about insurance all the time and disappeared these days.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u717	Is that SYRIZA's?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u718	I am in favour of strikes and, of course, of information for the Greeks, for all the citizens of the world, because I believe that information and, in particular, information is a social asset. As is the case with health, which I believe my fellow doctors can make a strike, but my colleagues are certainly sitting in hospitals to heal citizens. So they had to come out of some media and inform the citizens. That's my opinion. Now, after forty-five years, I see NATO here. Munga of all of you! For the list of problems, what can I say? So many colleagues have said. I would like to say two things, which relate to the ethics of the Left: on the outside of the ministers, I would like both Ministers to come out and ask themselves for their immunity to be waived. That would mean left for me. Both Ministers should do so, as should some fellow Members. When it comes to 'outside', we ask for our immunity to be lifted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u719	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u720	The Left that I knew of, the Left of sensitivities, my dear Minister, and the high political culture is a past for me and you. You came to power declaring that you will be a vehicle of change and twists to get Greece out of the crisis. Your little government service just reveals the opposite. You spoke of decency everywhere and of clear positions. You got the paperwork for doctors from CDC and you made your own situations. There are no independent authorities for you because you live in your own small world. You cannot understand what is going on around you nor make the necessary adjustments. Do you know what the problem is with you? You don't know what you're doing and where you are. Most of all, you cannot meet the requirements of the country's governance. That is why those who expect new government majorities with you and new governments from the existing Parliament have not fallen victim to their delusion, but rather express their desire. We will not agree on that. I believe that the elections will soon give the solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u721	As a new Republic, did you now speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u722	Mr Dimitrios Dimitriadis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u723	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Minister, four parameters define the insurance and tax reality: The first is the 25% reduction in GDP, the second is the reduction in employment with unemployment to 26%, the third is the large proportion of the government's budget for insurance expenditure of 17% and the fourth is the major deficits of the insurance funds, which are constantly growing. The bitter and at the same time tough truth is that these indicators were building a lasting course of destruction, without visible end, without bottom. We are obliged first of all to admit that our coming to the government of the country has braked this downhill. In other words, I claim that the demand for huge sums - in billions - of loans per year, combined with the zero deficit clause would dramatically continue to reduce horizontal wage and pension cuts. We held back this dynamism that the former governments had structured with a statistical consistency at the expense of the weak social classes. And our agreement has stopped this fact. However, the reality requires further necessary solutions on the basis of where we are and what tools we have. We can no longer stay unrealistic, we cannot be misinterpreted of the lost innocence of post-population. From the very beginning we have served policies of dignity, policies of emancipation of the world of work. Our policies are the result of conflicts and compromises first and foremost. We're not the compromise party. We are his party 'no'. The burden for us is therefore overpriced and we have an absolute sense of our historical responsibility. So the bill currently being discussed in Parliament on social security is a radical reform for both the organisation and the operation of the insurance system, ensuring adequate pensions for all. It also includes a grid of tax changes aimed at rationalising the tax system and at reducing the injustices to the detriment of those who normally paid marble in taxation. Top example, which we are saving, because it is precisely because it has paid a large part of the crisis, for example, are those who have had EUR 22 000 to EUR 42 000 to date. The central philosophy of our proposal is to benefit very much, in fact, by a class calculation and biasing of particularly low incomes, to favour less small incomes and small and medium-sized enterprises, to impose little on medium and much higher incomes. We're not talking about rich people, we're just talking about those who might pay something more. It is therefore changing the social security system from a system of privileges and customer relations, which was identical to inequalities, privileges, pluralism, suffering, inadequacy and discrimination, to a universally redistributive system of equality and justice, with uniform rules and principles for all, respecting the insured, ensuring the adequacy of pensions and the rates of replacement that contribute to the fight against poverty and ensuring a decent standard of living for all, but all the elderly. Let me make a brief reference here to what has happened so far. The former Labour Ministers have disappeared along with the rights and the very concept of work. And their infamousness at this point is the least, because unrepentantly they insist on the same story, in the same account of supposedly success, that they had supposedly balanced the system and collected the deficits. The deficits, however, required an increase in the coverage of government expenditure by 405%, the agricultural pension in a few years would be zero, the ESA since the summer insisted on abolishing, because they were in agreement with the Juncker Programme and the zero deficit clause, leading the funds to further suffocation and therefore significant cuts. With this tactic, the Insurance Funds without any rescue plan were transformed into deficit-making mechanisms and were based on direct assistance from the State and the State budget to serve their obligations towards pensioners. In 2000, the state grant to the funds was about 5 billion, in 2009 it was 17 billion. The cuts in the memorandum seemed for a moment to rationalise the system, but internal disparities remained, because pensions were not recalculated, as they should. Thus, five years of memorandum cuts reduced expenditure, but only by 6%, because on the one hand they did not bring the results expected by their inspirers and, on the other, led to a significant number of public, ECO and banks leaving work. So these costs cannot be demanded that the low pensioners of IKA and OSH reinstate them again. We must also pursue solidarity and justice within the same sectors of the funds. We must first of all follow the requirement of the Constitution by applying the principle of equality. I would like to focus on the seven main pillars of this draft law. First of all, I would like to refer to the gradual liquidation of the CSCE. Although in the summer of the Yonker project all the opposition told us: "yes, to vote, because it is necessary", we maintained it with gradual impairment until 2019 and at the same time with the national basic pension that we are establishing, we solved the strategic problem in this matter for low-paid pensioners. The subsidiary bill stipulates that in the event of a deficit an automatic balancing mechanism is activated, which excludes any adjustment to pensions. Also, any adjustment is excluded from crossing the EUR 1,300 gross barrier. In the wheelchairs we do not make any change, we leave it as it has been accepted and agreeing that by December 31st, together with the wheelchair movement, we will shape the new landscape. Charges for employees: There is hardly any charge, beyond 0.5%, for the subsidiary. For free traders, contributions are deducted from gross income at first, secondly, 81% of self-employed persons and 70% of professional craftsmen will have no burden due to the linkage of contributions with taxable income. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a moment, Mr President, please. It is important for all of this to guarantee the state and the zero deficit clause is replaced by the growth clause, where it only provides for increases from now on. At the same time, we streamline the system by creating a single body. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to close by congratulating the fact that our insurance reform is the basis for a fair and fair share of today's, indeed, smaller pie. It is the first major step in our governance for a sustainable and efficient system of redistribution of wealth. The next step, however, is the institutional armour that will guarantee a short, honest and secure management of the budget and money of the working people with transparency and social control.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u724	Mr. Comrade, close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u725	A future in which the world of work and its political expressions will hold it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u726	Thank you, too. Mr Dendias has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u727	I have listened with understanding to my previous colleagues, proudly proclaiming this step 'We are his party no', and I understand that he would have had training leave in the last 12 months! Ladies and gentlemen, we have to respond here to three things: first of all, is this legislation necessary, which we are now voting on today? It's heavy. It's not debated! By the way, I saw Mrs. Kundura there. I have not seen any spokespersons on the list of speakers. Are you still supported or interrupted in view of the difficulties? In any case, we will see that. But was it necessary? They heard that the insurance was derailed anyway. That's not true. Unmistakable proof is the report by the Bureau of the Parliament's Budget Office. Law 3863/10 has dealt with the issue along with the changes made by Giannis Brutsis. And if we go back to 2000 by 2009, then I do not remember, you as a party, being in favour of any cut or election. If I remember well, in your appearance then, you kept yelling for increases. Now, what are you complaining about? Let's understand. Let's go to your second claim. That it is fair and beneficial for 99% of the population. Now, are we serious about this? So the 100% protesting against you has suffered overall paranoia? You may have learned that your offices have been occupied. You may have noticed that you have three cubes to close access to the Maximos Mansion. Nowadays, we've put one. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Where else are you going to take it? How's progress going? All this left shell of the Memorandumary Road on Ruspheological Socialism, which you call on you to see, ladies and gentlemen? You're gonna tell me why I'm telling you rhyphetologists? I'll tell you. You have passed forty-nine laws. Of the forty-nine laws, purely laws are eight. All the rest are contracts, sanctions, PPP etc. You have tabled to these eight laws - this is your legislative work - and in your total legislative work it corresponds to a hundred and forty-nine amendments of Ministers, three hundred Parliamentary amendments of the SYRIZA - we have not calculated the ANELs, we will also count them - a hundred and twenty-four legislative changes that conceal amendments, one amendment for each SYRIZA executive. Every SYRIZA official will solve his problem with this government. And yet we ask for sacrifices from the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, it was not necessary, you did so with your policy in 2015. It's not fair. Is it appropriate at least? I will give you three examples. First we start with an admission. Two million private workers cannot feed another nine million Greeks. That can't be. So let's get a mechanic who this year, in 2015, didn't get anything out of the crisis and next year makes 7,000 euros. You get him 80% of his income. 80%! We are going to a lawyer, more prosperous, who - with strikes, there are no courts, no jobs, next year, maybe the recovery will come, as you say - oh of the miracle, his year is going very well and he makes 40,000 euros. Along with the deposit, you'll get him 35,582.6 euros. I mean, he's gonna have 4,418, out of the 40,000 he's made.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u728	Take off the deposit.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u729	Why? He won't pay her? Will you lend him a loan from SYRIZA to pay the deposit? Should we go to the rich guy who makes 100,000 euros? We expect him to employ young people, hire people to stop the anxiety of youth unemployment. Because if you expect to be appointed to the public, live we're burned! At EUR 100,000, you know the taxation, along with the new insurance contributions introduced by the Minister. It's 93.409.80 euros, with two houses.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u730	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u731	What am I saying? What's terrible isn't that you're asking me what I'm saying, is you don't know what it is I'm saying. That's the terrible thing. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because you don't know what you're voting for. You don't know where you're going. You don't know what despair you lead to society. You don't know what wall you're taking us to. Is there another way? Because what this government is, we have seen it very clearly. Greek society has seen it. It is depicted in each measurement. Right now, it's hard to spend 15%. Once this bill starts implementing, you'll see 10% away. You will return to your historical rates, at 2%, at 3%, at 4%, by sharing them with Mr. Lafazanis, with Mrs. Constantopoulou, with all these weird left ones. Let's go see, is there another way? Ladies and gentlemen, there is a song by Savvopoulou, some time in the 1990s: 'While this state collapses, the external Hellenism will proceed'. There's a road. He's Greek, he's Greek-speaking and he's next to us. Look at Cyprus. Do you know how Cyprus came out of the memorandum? At a tax rate of 12.5%. Do you know what employers' contributions Cyprus has? He's got 7.8%. Why? Because there's a need for investment. Without investments, you're not going to do anything. So whatever you vote on today's parliamentary majority, which is nothing in society outside, there is no chance that it will be implemented. And I'm telling you again what you've been told in good faith by many speakers from this Step: by goodness to go, to build the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u732	Mr. Xydakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u733	We are all members of a legislative body. Many of us, last August, on 14 August, voted on what was called the third memorandum. In that text, in those hard days, there were everything that has been going on lately and this insurance. All the core and logic of this tough bill - in fact, no one wants to vote for such laws - was there. How then did you and my colleagues vote from Ellassonan Opposition and my fellow Members from Major Opposition? How do you now have such structural, philosophical, political questions? I am also surprised at the philosophical attitude of some left-wing colleagues. Everyone now has a view of the Left and what the Left is. We have a view of what the Left is in 2016, as the only one - unfortunately, but we hope to be no longer alone - I have ruled the left in post-war Europe. It is a historic experiment that is done and done, unfortunately, on the ruins that you have left. So I will tell you, on what occasion in May 2012, the Left "or we" said and in January 2015 it became government over this Greek ruin. How have we received the country and how are we still? I'll read you two lines of Alexandros Papadiamantis. "As the dog, the very short-coreed dog in his courtyard, cannot bark or bite outside the radius and bow, which deletes the short rope, likewise I cannot say, nor do anything more than allow me to close jurisdiction.." This commentary, quoted by Papadiamantis, remember when it happened, on whom and how? Remind me. In May 2010, the well-known American lawyer Lee Bouhait, a global authority in the public debt settlement, wrote a small scientific paper in which he analysed the specificity of the Greek debt. He said, therefore, that since the 319 billion Greek debt, the 240 billion was concentrated on a few European banks. And 90% of Greek debt was under Greek law. The conclusion of Lee Buhait was that never in modern economic history had his debt as concentrated and he did not have so much legal means at his disposal to settle it as he wanted. Do you know what the result is? He reminded us of a post published by HANDELSBLATT the day before yesterday, on 4 May, carrying the study of the European School of Management and Technology in Berlin. He also commented on the European press. This survey therefore says that from 220 billion in total, up to the end of 2015, received by Greece from the aid programmes, only 9.7 billion went to the Greek budget. Everything else went for debt, interest and bank recapitalisation. This is the commentary, which was provoked in spring and summer 2010. And I'll tell you another nice detail. Lee Bouhait, who predicted exactly and analysed the situation of the Greek debt, is the man who came to Greece and did the PSI. And he is also the man who proposed the new debt to enter the Greek law. And that somehow never happened. Rather with political responsibility and political will of the Greek government at the time, the government of Papademos. So when you criticise the SYRIZA Government and what it means to the left and how much we do not remember our left youth, remember what the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK have done over the years of credit expansion, amnesia and parasiticism. And go back to see what your colleagues are saying to the other major European parties. Talk to Portugal, talk to the right-wing President who recently came out with a strong majority and see how he supports the socialist Portuguese government and how with a fist he tries to defend his country. Talk to Finland, with the best children of Mr. Shoeble's neoliberal austerity, the former miraclemakers, who are in the third year of dedication. And Mr. Stubb, former Prime Minister, is still at the Eurogroup and represents the ally of Mr. Shoeble and his people are suffering, as both the health system and the educational miracle of Finland and the labour market are cut. Here's what Germany's anti-Cancellor Mr. Ziggmar Gabriel says today. Let us listen to the members of the Socialist Democrats in the European Parliament. They say that Greece must be helped at all costs. He's done everything, and he has to stay firm. He has paid the price of major crises and not its responsibility. Let the Socialist Group be heard. Let them hear what the Prime Minister of Italy, Mr Renci, says about the situation in Europe and the policy of austerity. Let's hear what's coming to Spain. They have elections on June 26th. Let us listen to what is happening in Europe and to those of the wider Group of the Party of European Socialists and those of the Socialist Group who are taking part in the Group of the Party of European Socialists. Let us listen to what is happening in the countries of Northern Europe, where populist neo-fascism is taking place. Let us see what is going on in Hungary, what is happening in Slovakia, what is happening in Austria right now, which breaks down the mighty Social Democratic Party, and which amounts to Mr Strache and scans everything and dictates their agenda to Christian Democrats and popular parties. Let's hear this and see where the country is. The country is in the sixth year of testimony, in a Golgotha, and to get some people to do better. Unfortunately and fortunately for us, for the first ruling Left, which is constantly at the cross of self-criticism and the cross of testimony, that is what we are doing, that is, trying to save what can be saved from what the previous ones left behind. Self-criticism is the first task for us, not revenge or punishment. But, stand across all of us, and we, in the Greek people, tell them what there is, what public administration is there, what parasites govern the entire administration and the political system and the Greek economy. And to think of something else: that to redesign the productive tissue, to rebuild the rotten public administration, new policies and spiritual elites are needed. We, on this Left, which you think you can criticise, know that we are the fuel of history, know that the policy of crisis, individuals and political formations can burn. And we want to burn. What do you think will save you from the years of parasiticism and the years that have passed over this country? We know that we must end with parasiticism and also blow a breeze into the souls of the aborted people, the wounded people, the unemployed. That is our purpose of becoming a fuel in history. What's your vision? How many memorials did you vote for and now you're shaking this here? For us, this is a defense, a fight in which we leave our flesh. That is what I have to say and let us go to the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u734	Mr. Igoumenides has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u735	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, since August we have opened the insurance issue up to date and what we have not heard. "SYRIZA sinks society", "SYRIZA sends home on the rocks, is unable to rule, is insolvent to negotiate, seriously harms the country, the sooner it leaves," "Get away and do not come again." Refined and collected from all of this eight months, they were heard at today's meeting. And as a colleague of Officerial Representation said, 'You have now had a past of disastrous governance'. I will try to bypass the mist that your destructive propaganda raises and discuss what has happened during this disastrous government, as you call it. The five-euro admission to hospitals was abolished. Who set it up? Those who are accusing us today of being incapable of ruling. Control started on the lists of the thieves of the sweat of our people. Who kept them in their drawers untapped? The ones who are accusing us today of fairy tales. We have effectively dealt with the problem of our uninsured fellow citizens. Who has led to the armies of the uninsured? The ones who are accusing us today of being dangerous to the country. In a few days the law on media licensing enters into force. I am not going to ask you the question, who have contacts with this system of interacting. The question is another. Do you realize what stones know in this place about your ties and relationships with the system of interacting, or do you still live in your virtual reality? Anyway, I could go on with many examples from the parts of the so-called parallel programme, which this government of 'usless', as you call it 'the dangerous', 'the ruins of the country', has established in this short period of the seven-month period it has passed. Small things we're not celebrating about. And we're not celebrating, first of all, because it's so cracked the landscape that you left behind, which really little has affected the daily life of our people. But the reason for this is because they give another message that SYRIZA is not seriously harming the country. SYRIZA seriously harms the status of interlocutory, corruption, tax evasion, the regime of theft of wealth produced by our country's workers. They, yes, are at risk, unless you are so close to this regime of corruption and interlocutory, which you consider to be your homeland precisely this thing. If that is the case, no matter how dark it is that we leave and not come back, with the will of our people we are here and we will be at the front line of the race, to break the most rotten history of this country has to show. In such an environment, ladies and gentlemen, the insurance bill came. I will not dwell on individual aspects that people have said. Ms.Mitsotakis, 24-4-2016, at the party conference: "Nothing would do the same, nothing will do the same. We have a different logic and another proposal for insurance. We have a different logic and another proposal on taxation.' I'm signing it with both hands. I fully agree with the President of the New Democracy. We have quite a different logic, starting from a completely different basis. We are heading in a cross-cutting opposite direction. Allow me, in order to strengthen precisely the position of the President of the New Democracy, to read two examples from the Greek society, adding only two words, "happily" and "happily". Fortunately for the poor and the weak, unfortunately for the leeches of Greek society, yes, we SYRIZA do not believe in the austerity programmes. Fortunately, for the workers of the country, unfortunately, for their monopolies and profits, yes, we, SYRIZA, do not believe in the dissolution of labour relations, do not believe in customer relations, do not believe in the regimes of interlocutory. Fortunately, for the weaker social groups, unfortunately, for the crows attacking the Greek society, yes, we SYRIZA do not believe in the logic of numbers, which is indifferent to the interests of citizens and society. Fortunately, for our country, we have a radically different logic.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u736	Where's this all going?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u737	Asphalt, then, the fire of your destructive propaganda. Apart from finding us, they can't even hide the nakedness of your policy. Irrespective of what you wanted, Mr Tindemans, to answer, life puts some questions you should answer in this Chamber too. Do you want a successful negotiation? Do you want us to achieve a debt reduction? Do you want a sustainable insurance system? And we appeal to you, knowing that your President refused to sign at the meeting of the political leaders even this very simple, to ask the institutions not to reduce pensions. We appeal to you, who, together with the political leaders who are behind you, are the only ones who have spoken about the deposit of this bill as a unilateral energy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u738	None of us said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u739	We are aware, ladies and gentlemen, that in the difficult measures that we are bringing, the majority of society stands with anxiety, with concern - if you wish - for tomorrow, with interest and why not with a critical mood and thought. However, we are also aware that the majority of our society supports this difficult path. Finally, I would like to say that I believe that this depreciation and degradation of the political presence of SYRIZA, other than the others, is also aimed at the social alliance, the agonist unit of SYRIZA with the fighting social forces. This is an alliance that we built in the years when SYRIZA gave political battle from the position of opposition. This is a social alliance that we sealed in the successive elections in 2015. So just give us a chance now that he's calling you. Disapprove us and disapprove us now that you can make it, because the wheel will return. Even when your opposition speech, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, all of you who move our finger, rests on our sufficient, possibly delays, this social alliance will preserve it as an eye daughter and strengthen it further.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u740	But you can really close it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u741	I'm closing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u742	You say you're closing, but you don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u743	Because our alliance with the living social forces is the source of our power, it is the prerequisite for our constant stepping up to tomorrow, it is the guarantee that we will successfully open the way for a new Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u744	Mr. Iliopoulos has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u745	In fact, the SYRIZA Members do not know where they have been with what they have been saying in Parliament over the last few days, from what we are hearing. Probably because the world takes you with the yoghurts and rocks where you go and you can't be released, so you have no idea what the world thinks of you. I would like to begin with something that will be recorded by the future historian for today's date, 7-5-2016. It's not about the narrow limits of our homeland. It concerns Europe in general. So as today, in 2016, historian of the future, the first Pakistani mayor of Europe was elected. Indeed, in Europe's largest capital. And as we say on our site...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u746	Doctor of Oxford!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u747	Well done, enjoy him! And as our site says, 'London has fallen'. And along with London, other capitals and other cities will follow and then Europe as a whole. Europe's Islamisation Plan reaches its peak. You, too, welcome and celebrate - both the ministers and the MPs - are doing very well and celebrating, because as you have done the Greek border and therefore Europe, you are helping as much as you can in the Islamisation of Greece and Europe. And the historian of the future will record your own works - be absolutely sure - and say he's a teacher and everything else he wants to be. The fact is, he's a Muslim, Pakistani, mayor of London. And that's documented. And you will see what will then bring what you so celebrate. I shall comment briefly - because they do not need much comment - on what Chakalotos said a moment ago, the person who said that duty will not fall under 12 000 euros. And he said to us today cynically: "We said this before January 2015, we did not say so in September". That's how they make fun of us. That's how they make fun of the Greek people. But he doesn't say he said he'd be at 9,100 euros. Finally, he signed and brought the 8,600 euro as an amendment. He was happy, too, and he was celebrating, instead of being ashamed. He told us his word was a contract. Yes, of course, it's a contract, but a loan shark contract. He does what he says more, as he writes in his messages. It is not a contract with the Greek citizens who have chosen - badly - the government of SYRIZA in two successive elections to do what they said, as Chakalotos cynically said before January. It has also been mentioned in the referendum, in the largest pitfall - to say so - of recent years. The proud 'no' has become a 'yes', as we all know. We had Mr. Teddy here before. The "master" put it in too many introductory forms for the Treasury and for everything he has done when he was a Minister of Public Order. "Sir"! God bless him! He was smiling here. It was ten minutes ago at the Step and he was laughing. While the Greek people are falling, Dendia fooled and contested which government has more cages in Maximos. That's your folklore! You're competing in cages! You're about to compete with others. I'm absolutely sure of it! I will give the temptation to deal with a party which has been devalued by the entire Greek society, the thief - PASOK. Mr. Loverdos said today that the SYRIZA government had a party on their honesty. The Greek people are listening to this - those who manage and follow the discussions that are taking place here - and they are really appalling! He said they had a party in the honesty of PASOK! We've heard that too! The PASOKratia, which essentially governs Greece for the last thirty-seven, forty-seven years, which has brought the terms "misa", "historm", "ladder" at the forefront of politics and not just life, says they have had a party on their honesty! Mrs Christophilopoulou and Mr Gregorakos said 'Mouga'. They have courage and they say to the others "Munga"! Does the PASOK "mug" say to who? If Mrs Christophilopoulou had a sign of eloquence, she had to go out and say "muga". In another country, you would do that, Mrs Christophilopoulou, for what you have caused the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u748	I'm leaving the room...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u749	To goodness and leave the country soon!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u750	Fascists are also Nazis...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u751	The insurance funds and the country you broke up. And don't cut the door, because it doesn't belong to you! SYRIZA anyway is the continuation of PASOK, the thief-PASOK. It's a persuasive instrument of loan sharks. The loan sharks have brought SYRIZA to power, because they knew that with no other Prime Minister and no government would pass the measures that have passed over the last few years. If there were any other government and brought these measures, Greece would surely burn away. However, when these measures are brought by a so-called left-wing government, which has been under its control for so many years for all those who burned Greece, it certainly does not open no nosy. Some people come out and protest, usually under the robbery and custody, in the bad sense of the word of the JRC, to allegedly make their struggle. There's so much you've said these days that we really don't get enough of seven minutes. People ask us when the SYRIZA government will fall. And yet what comes will be even worse. It will be a Mitsotakis government, it will be a government to which the loan sharks will say, 'you will make five' and it will do fifteen. And yet, they're trying to get us through that Mitsotakis has fallen from heaven, he's down in the political life of the country. His family is not a family that has been shown in all the historical archives of our country in the last hundred years to be interchangeable with the rest of the families that have permeated our country. He's trying to get bollocked. So I inform you that with any Siemens washing machine Mitsotakis does not wash away. It belongs to the known family. It's nothing new. It'll bring much worse than what we're living for today. It will worsen the situation and all Greeks should know that before they make their choice. I don't have time to mention everything I wanted. I would, of course, call on the Greek people, in the forthcoming elections, which will soon come, to vote against the SYRIZA Government, which has dismantled the country, but in no case to bring into power the form of the false right, which has been shifted to the centre of the New Democracy, because it will be the absolute gravestone. Soon the Greeks will give their answer and the country's national rule will bring the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u752	Mr. Vardakis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u753	Thank you, Mr President. My dear colleagues and colleagues of the SYRIZA, I have a concern about this: should we be retrained? Should we, in the end, listen to the anxietys and concerns of colleagues from the Opposition? No, nothing else, but we might get bored and endless remorse in the future. Do we, Prime Minister, also have to resign? But why? We found a state that worked a clock! We've received a strong economy, no deficits, and we're done! Until yesterday's tax evasion, tax evasion was zero, and we denounced the control mechanisms, squeezing the two before! A sustainable insurance system has broken it! We received pension insurance funds up to 2050 and with the PSI, the structured, the stock exchanges, we vented the reserves! We have created troops of unemployed! We deliberately contributed to the deindustrialisation of the country! We sent our children migrants! We have devastated the primary sector by creating subsidies clienteles, harming substantially and consciously 90% of farmers! Mr. Apostle, you must feel co-responsible too. We have to pay 3 billion, even today, for previous years in the European Union for illegal subsidies. And I mean from 2009 to 2014. We're also analgesic you see, because we even cut the birth allowance, because, he says, it was necessary for pregnancies to give birth to the street, the field or the sidewalk, to qualify for childbirth allowance. What about retirement? Mr. Catrugale, the lifelong mother pension for a mother with five and six children was 120 euros. Do you have anything to tell us? Did you cut it? We closed the workplace, the OEC, and we rehearsed 7 to 8 billion from the only public utility organization that had remained! We have sold out the farm, the farmers' only disguise! We have created by the abolition of collective agreements, the only fortress of workers, a working middle age, a working jungle! We are unacceptable, because we even cut off the unemployment fund to our hungry people! I don't know if Mr. Brutsi has anything to tell us about that later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u754	I'll tell you tomorrow. You have to listen...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u755	We've created the client state! With L.3845 of 2010, we cut the allowances and the gifts! With Law 4002 of 2011, we imposed a special contribution from 6% to 10% on pensioners! With Law 3986 of 2011, with retroactive implementation, we imposed a special solidarity levy on pensioners! With Law 4002 of 2011, we imposed new reductions in supplementary pensions! With Law 4024/2011 we made cuts in the main pensions! By Law 4046 of 2012, we imposed 12% new reductions in subsidiary fees. With Law No 4093 of 2012, we have made new reductions in main, subsidiary and abolished both gifts and bonuses to subsidiary members! The most tragic, though, ladies and gentlemen, is that from 2010 to 2014 we took measures of 62.992,000,000 and reduced the country's Gross Domestic Product to 25%! We fired two and a half thousand teachers! We had the bill yesterday. In one night we put "black" on the ERT in seconds! We shut down and fired workers at the City Police, cleanliness! We've booked hundreds of schools and kindergartens! We charged millions of insurers who were hospitalized by public hospitals, mocking them that - listen! - They had full care! I have heard a colleague from the Democratic Alliance here earlier speaking about hay. But he's not here today to hear them. All of these colleagues in the opposition are calling for elections and calling us dangerous and useless. I hope, after what I said today, which is the real facts, that all that have really impoverished the Greek people for the past five, six years - and, of course, allegingly I have said it, I believe that the anti-population colleagues have understood it, and not the current government - that you realise the extent of the disaster that you have brought to this place, that you really understand how incapable of managing the crisis that you have created. Finally, how dangerous are you even today, not recognizing the huge mistakes that have truly impoverished a proud Greek people? It is the least dishonest especially you to shake your finger and demagogue, to play the victims while you are the real victims. The Government's social security bill is a radical part, in fact, both for the organization and the operation of social security in Greece, but also for the whole of social policy in the country, ensuring pensions for all. National pensions and replacement rates are quite satisfactory, to say that we will have a sustainable social security system tomorrow. There may also be some weaknesses. But be sure that by the end of the four-year period we will fix them, always in the interests of the many, not the few, as you have done, gentlemen of the counterpopulation, to this day. We still have a lot to do for the benefit of the Greek people that you ripped him off. And know our people have no short memory. Let me tell you something else: don't worry, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. It's premature, really, fighting. You're gonna warm up these benches - of counterpopulation I mean - for several more years. You no longer convince anyone. Corruption, complication, anxiety in this poor place you have to understand that sometime it will end.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u756	Thank you. Mrs Keramemos has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u757	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the explanatory memorandum to the bill, which we are debating today, we are debating the full reform of the social security system. And from that, it is the proposal that starts all the problems. Why am I saying that? Because, in fact, we are not discussing the reform of insurance, we are not discussing how insurance can be truly sustainable over time. In fact, what we are discussing is how the government will be able to cover budgetary deficits through insurance, how it will manage to save the unthinkable sums that creditors demanded for the first time in 2015 from that government. In fact, what we are talking about is how he will cover these holes in the country's finances. Hole holes that emerged how? On the one hand, on the one hand, and on the other, on the other, the wrong policy mix, which has been followed for 15 months by the Government. So the project is fundamentally problematic in the first place. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy is voting against this proposal to reform the social security system, for many admitted reasons, including the unconstitutional objections already mentioned. Let me focus on four of these reasons why we are voting against this draft law. Firstly, we are voting against the draft law because it punishes labour and leads to the disappearance of entire branches of free professionals, including lawyers, engineers and doctors. Why does it lead them to extinction? Because the contributions imposed by this bill, of 38% on remuneration, in addition to other taxes and charges, reduce to the minimum the net income of these people. And it is clear to you that Parliament's Scientific Service on page 10 of its report. It tells you that the specific insurance costs, which exceed 35% of the income of the professions, go to an excessive reduction in their income and affect their constitutionally guaranteed right to participate in the social and economic life of the country. They are the same words as the Scientific Service of the Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, in some cases, insurance contributions, taxes and other charges will exceed 65% of the income of the free worker. And tell me, with what motive to work when the state gets more than 65% of those who win 1 Ladies and gentlemen of the government, your responsibility is enormous. You are driving productive sections of society, freelance professionals and self-employed in undeclared work and unemployment. Secondly, we are voting against the draft law because it is socially unequal, because it leads to the break-up of generations and because it is finally putting against our new fellow citizens. And I explain with one example: someone who submitted his pension papers on 1 January 2016 will receive a main pension reduced by 30% to 35% and an supplementary pension reduced by 30% to 60%, compared to who? Compared to someone who submitted his papers with the same years of service one day earlier, on December 31, 2015. As far as young professionals are concerned, however, the draft law discourages them from the start of their professional life. As Mr Minister, Article 39(1) may provide for reductions in contributions for the first five years of insurance, but in paragraph 2 of the same article it is clear that these amounts must be paid at the time of the issue of the pension or even earlier, depending on the taxable income. So the supposed discount for new professionals! Thirdly, we are voting against the draft law because it is socially unfair and this is despite the fact that social justice is a'significant' of your rhetoric and is allegedly your exclusive privilege. I don't have to say much. I will only tell you two examples, to show, Mr Ministers, the size of your social analgesia. The first example: Article 7: The amounts of disability pensions are considerably reduced. Second example: Article 12: Reduction of widow's pensions by 50%. Ladies and gentlemen, all the above reasons I have mentioned show our deep ideological opposition to the measures you are proposing. But I'll tell you something else. Even if we did not have this ideological opposition, there is a fourth reason why we are voting against these heavy measures, and that is the following: because these measures are not going to yield the expected costs, because these are so unbearable, so absurd, that citizens may find alternatives. What solutions? Tax evasion, tax evasion, undeclared work and transfer of business abroad. And I am very sorry to see that these trends, the trends for alternatives, have already emerged before the bill is even passed. And what do I mean? Unfortunately, I also know too many young lawyers who have already applied for the transfer of their headquarters abroad before your bill is even passed! So that is what this bill does, it once again kicks our new professionals out! In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I wonder who you really want to protect with this piece of legislation. Active citizens are not protected, as they will be suffocated by contributions and taxes. The pensioners are not already protected as part of their main pensions is cut and their supplementary pensions are cut. Future pensioners are still more unprotected, as their future pensions are considerably reduced. And the socially fragile groups are certainly not protected. Invalidity and widow's pensions are dramatically reduced, while the CSR is abolished for three hundred and forty thousand low pensioners. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen of the government, I conclude that the only purpose you are pursuing in this draft law is to extend, stay in power, to fill the budgetary gap that you yourself have created with your oligopoly, with your management failure, with your lack of strategy, with the wrong policy mix that you have implemented. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Give me a minute more. You are trying to fill this budget gap with unreasonable insurance costs for all citizens of EUR 3.1 billion, which were inappropriate and unreasonable sixteen months ago, when you took over power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u758	Mr. Ursuzidis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u759	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been too many exaggerations and we have seen behaviours that I would describe as hysterical. I'm obviously not going to follow that logic. I am here to study and tell my opinion to the citizens who have entrusted me with this position. The bill under discussion relates to the energy due to the Greeks who have been insured for many years. For many decades the insurance hole has been covered by a state budget, essentially with an indirect increase in contributions charged to unsuspecting citizens. And since the revenues from taxation were never sufficient in the context of the country's public finances, the hole in the insurance was covered - as was the other holes in the government - by borrowings that had been feeding the debt for decades. That's the truth. These very politicians who bought consciences and extracted the political life of the place today are inclined to be populist and mutilated. The crime committed by the previous governments over the last few decades, which have conducted micro-policy and displayed unprecedented populism, is now being called upon to deal with the pressure on creditors and reasonable popular reaction. The absolutely necessary restructuring of the pension system, which has never been rational and fair and has ceased long before the crisis to be sustainable, must be done in a fair and effective way, as long as the conditions allow, in order to ensure that the rightful pension is granted, that the citizens at last relax, that insecurity is removed from their lives. Because the state can no longer make a difference, and we cannot borrow by charging the next generations such as those who have been running this country for decades, we must limit to the minimum the operating costs of the insurance system and obviously the high pensions, which have nothing to do with the reality of the market. That's what we're doing. We are limiting the multiple and unjustified bases of contributions, fraudulent pensions and, obviously, prematurely, those who practice heavy and unhealthy professions and people who receive special needs. It is probably not enough and additional measures need to be taken. That's the one part. The other part concerns the sustainability of the insurance system, what we call jobs in the private sector. That's what our insurance system needs. The jobs need to be increased so that sustainability can be created and that proportion that enables the pensioner to enjoy a pension. But today, with unemployment at 25%, with part-time work at 63%, undeclared work of more than 20%, what Greek believes can miracles be done under these conditions? All Greeks support an effort, as long as it is in the right direction. In other words, ensuring a tolerable level of living under these truly difficult conditions that you have also created. So we need a sustainable and affordable insurance system that can be lifted up by the economy and guarantee pensions in the long term, at a tolerable level for the citizens who are fed. In particular, Article 114, which deals with income tax regulations, there are essentially no great differences. Small incomes are about the same level, the middle ones are lightened and the largest are charged by about 3%. I would now like to come to the question of farmers to whom all of you in the counter-population are diligently not mentioned. And you did not mention why, since 2014, you have tabled a question to which - and the belief is expressed - that from 1-1-2014 the taxable income of producers will be determined in an accountable way and will be taxed without tax from the first euro. For the purposes of determining income other than purchase and selling tariffs, Community allowances and payments will also be included - direct payments, compensatory allowances, quality premiums, etc. In this way, the level of net agricultural income, which is taxed, is expected to increase significantly. And then you ask Mrs Valavani, in expressing this conviction - and I will put it before you, it is from New Democracy - that the tax on our farmers will be excessively increased, what he intends to do to remove this regime. So, today, the farmer is enjoying the EUR 9,100 tax - the one who has two children - and is escalating to EUR 8,600 in the marriage. This tax exemption also helps to ease the level of insurance contributions, as it determines taxable income. And indeed, with scales of 80% going down to 70% and escalating to 14%, 16%, 18%, 19%, 19%, 19% and 20% by 2022, there are insurance contributions which do not cover the minimum income of 5,000 euros - we do not condemn farmers only EUR 5,000 - but also add EUR 9 000. So a farmer, who earns 14 000 euros, has to pay the insurance contributions, which are 20% -25%, a little higher than the ones he pays today on the scale that exists. In order not to bother to disprove me, I submit to the Minutes of the House the question of twelve Members of the New Democracy. In fact, some of the New Democracy Members today, from this step, questioned exactly what they had signed. I don't want to mention their names. Besides, this is not a personal matter. [[At this point, the honourable Member, George Ursouzidis, presents for the minutes the question referred for a preliminary ruling, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So New Democracy and the PASOK as a coup d'état arranged for farmers to pay tax from the first euro, with those incredible percentages. They took care that while we didn't negotiate, we did some things. That's where we're going to negotiate. We'd have flattened them. As I wish to close well, I would like to say that we are tabling this bill or Amendment No 404, which deals with the regulation of urgent needs for the continuation of the building of Munich's school. About two months ago, we visited Munich and noted the problem. Again from negligence - you have ruled - we risk losing a school building involving seven thousand Greeks in Munich. It is a plot worth 10 million and about 3-4 million from the bearer, who has already been built. I would therefore ask you unanimously to vote on this. The effort is a common one, after all. I would like to stress that these are also being heard, especially for the golden people who say things, that this action was done at our own expense. It's not Parliament's fault. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u760	Mr. Jellonis from the Democratic Association has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u761	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, while listening so many hours here to the Congress Members, I really think they may have the view that the 5.4 billion Memorandum, which they brought to the country after seven months of negotiation, of government inertia of their own, will give it to the Greek people. No, you won't, gentlemen. You'll get them from the Greek people. And unfortunately, it is now time for you to revelation. It's time for the big truth. Unfortunately, for you lies are now over. It's over. Now we have bills. This bill will be experienced very quickly by the Greek people. Unfortunately, they have also finished for you, and the political mutations you have used to do now. Honestly listening to the Prime Minister speaking yesterday to his parliamentary group and dismantling myths after each other, I remembered and wondered where the tenth third pension went, the tax-free of 12,000 euros, the restoration of cuts, wages, pensions, the programme of Thessaloniki, the shading of the memorandum with an article and a law. Where did the second parallel program go in September? Ladies and gentlemen, by studying the draft law on insurance and taxation, package two to one, I really believe that common sense has been lost, because the bill eliminates social groups, farmers, professionals, scientists, young people insured. It undermines the solidarity of generations, because the burden will be borne by the new generations, by workers with many years of insurance and by the consistent insurers. It creates an incentive for tax evasion and evasion while undermining the Greek economy, the tax revenue and the sustainability of the insurance funds. And by listening to the Minister of Finance, all I have to say is that he's good at baptism when he says he's had a big fight to keep the national pension as a basic pension. But that was from Law 3863/2010. Mr. Katrugalos' insurance policy and the tax raid come in this draft law in a demonstrative way to level those who produce and produce. Unfortunately, this is your dominant philosophy and you show it in every piece of legislation. Undoubtedly, the biggest changes - insurance and taxation - come to the agricultural sector, to the detriment of Greek farmers. I have already heard the Minister responsible here say that this is a historic day. It's not a historical day. This is a black day for Greek farmers! There will be nothing left to stand in the Greek region. There will be no agricultural production, because it will not help farmers to produce. You destroy villages, you break social cohesion in the region, you demolish the only productive power of our country, which can produce wealth within a year and give the job of the secondary and tertiary sector, thus contributing decisively to the local and domestic economy. Mr Katrugalos has put in place a draft law on the fraud of farmers and the bankruptcy of agricultural production, transferring them to the backs of farmers' responsibilities which do not account for them. We all know how burdens were created in the OGA since its establishment in 1961. It was the Greek state's decision to join OGA a series of uninsured fellow citizens, such as foreigners, repatriated, migrants, uninsured of all kinds, monks and others, who are aware of by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Everyone joined the OGA on the altar of the social state. On the basis of the current data, the majority of the State grant to the compulsory insurance sector is distributed to six hundred and seventy-seven thousand eighty-eight already pensioners only of basic and/or basic pensions, for a total of six hundred nine thousand. Somehow, of the 3.3 billion that the OGA paid in 2015, 2.6 billion are expenditures related to old pensions of insurers substantially when with n. A gradual reduction in the expenditure in question is envisaged. And because it has been heard that the basic principle is evaporating, that is true, but at the same time the main pension goes up. What brings insurance - tax for farmers? It abolishes the OGA, resulting in administrative and operational suffocation and a great social impact on the primary sector. It changes the basis of the calculation of the insurance contributions from 1-1-2017 and connects them to the taxable income, where the basic payment of 60% of 2.6 billion of aid, as the Minister said and the remaining 40% of what is over 12,000 euros, is added. It, however, puts a lower insurance contribution on those who have no income at all, EUR 4,923 per year as income and receives a contribution of EUR 1,329 from EUR 753 that the farmer paid in 2014. It increases insurance contributions from 7% to the amount as a percentage of the seven categories of 2014, 20% to 2022 on the taxable income, to which additional 6.95% should be added for the health sector and 0.25% for the Rural Housing. For 2016-actually from 1-6-2015- farmers are invited to pay contributions to the OGA increased by 63% compared with 2014 and by 1-1-2017 more than double the contributions. I would like to say a few examples at this point, because they have been mentioned. In the third category, which is the taxable income of 8000 euros, in 2014 the farmer would pay 954 euros insurance contributions, in 2016 he pays 1.215 euros, in 2017 he will pay 1.676 euros and in 2022 he will reach 2.156 euros. In other words, insurance contributions are more than doubled. On tax, it abolishes the self-taxation of farmers with 13% and the incomes of 2016 and will then be taxed with the scales of 22-45%. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be 30 seconds, Mr. President. It is for the first time that it is expressly for the CAP and for the first time also for insurance. And because it was heard here, a lot of documents were submitted and they claimed that with Law 4172/2013 subsidies were not tax-free, I would like to present in the minutes L.4172/2013, which says that specifically for the purpose of determining the income from agricultural business incomes on business revenues include income from agricultural, livestock, forestry, logging and fishery products. There are no subsidies at all. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mikhail Jellonis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] By closing for 2016 the bill, which will go to small and medium-sized rural enterprises, is 1 billion. They will pay 500 to 550 million extra insurance contributions, 100 to 120 million additional taxes and then continue until 2022. The increase from 23% to 24% is due to VAT...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u762	Mr. Comrade, you said seconds, not minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u763	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that, for all these reasons, a bill, which is anti-developmental, which is a levelling-down of all production classes, we are voting against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u764	Mr. Famelos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u765	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the insurance and fiscal framework very clearly and is a key element of the agreement that our country signed this summer. For us, however, to be clear about the social reform, I would say that it is also an element of the parallel programme, of the democratic reconstruction of our country. Why to be public, to be sustainable, to be fair and to be socially insured is a people's right, a people's right called into question by the previous governments. To say this a little differently - and Mr Economou, who probably does not listen well - the New Democracy and the PASOK have broken up the country's insurance system. Ask Mr. Yannissi, ask Mrs. Lagard, ask who you want. The insurance system has been destroyed and all your ministers have an absolute political responsibility. How did they destroy it? Let me tell you. By being anarchist, dazzling, synagogue, nine hundred and fifty ways of calculating pension at the IKA? With the invasion of your own children? With the black paper? With the recession that you've created, so there won't be any contributions? With the stock exchange, the PSI, the structured bonds of your own fathers, your own children? You broke up the insurance policy. You have exhausted your own children's reserves, and now you are saying that pensions will be lost, which you have lost, and you are responsible, politically accountable to society, and you are not voting for the reform. But here you didn't have the guts and the daring to apply both Law 3863, your own law, you said it in here. The only guts you had were to reduce pensions 11 times to 45%. You guys are so nice! You guys are so good-looking! But you know what we understand, why don't you vote for it? Because very simply this bill was written in Greek and you are used to voting for bills that others wrote abroad to reduce the living conditions of our country. We are, however, going on to change the tax and insurance system and for another reason, because we want the country to go safely to the first assessment, to come out of the committee, the committee that you have once again put it. Let us not forget, however, the reason why we have reached this agreement. The bankruptcy of the country. Who bankrupt Greece? Who was subordinated to enter the first Memorandum, in the first medium-term, in the second Memorandum, to bring the IMF? Who put the country in the service of interlocutory, in the orders of interests? Who was responsible for governance and reduced by 25% the Gross National Product and reached 37% of unemployment? Even in your own reforms, you failed. In 2014 you left as bad students from Eurogroup having failed by 2 billion in the 2014 target and had in front of you in 2015 and 2016, a total of 7.7 billion direct measures against the Greeks. These were saved by the Greeks voting for the change, the turn of the country in January. And it is not enough to dismantle everything - not all of it, of course, it is true that the great-minded ones, the contracts of interaction with the 'SIEMENS', that you have known and read it, that you have done all the same - but you have maintained the fronts of the troika interior, that you have supported 'yes' for the country to go to the referendum. The country, however, stood up and began to change and prepared this programme, which is now ready for Mr Chakalotos to go to the negotiations on Monday. And you don't want the bill to be passed so the country won't be ready for this negotiation. And you know what you don't like? That for the first time, the country is consistent, has succeeded and exceeded its commitments, it goes to negotiate with a backstage of 1.7 billion won by Greeks with hard work and a tightened belt, because you are responsible for the recession that was created and went to negotiate only for the 5.4 billion that you voted in August and not even 1 euro above. We don't accept. We have not heard whether or not you accept the IMF proposals. The solution to the insurance and tax problem is not only hidden in the rates of contributions. I'd say he's not hiding there at all. We are interested in the quality of benefits as a social dimension. But, gentlemen, what we are interested in is the dimension of production and work. That is what you have underestimated and dismantled so that the country can be destroyed. 25% reduction in GDP is what calls into question the sustainability of insurance and taxation, and that is not what you say, because you are the only ones responsible. Because this year the country made a come back and won what you created, despite the suffocation, despite the capital controls, despite the sirens to the outside to exhaust the Greek Government. Work and progress in society is what we are interested in. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] And we ask ourselves: do you not want the country to complete the evaluation? Don't you want to get out of the commission? The whole society says 'end with the memoranda and the Commissioners'. Don't you want it? Why are you hiding with your own channels, systemic means, even small progress in the country? Why, for example, are you hiding the Draghi decision on the EFSF bonds? Why did you bury the announcement of the four lenders on the Great Thursday that the country is consistent? Why are you hiding that the country in the ESDP is going well and is it first in Europe? Why, for example, are you hiding that 10 billion euros are being paid back from Greek bonds to pay the debt, which today has been made public? And we're filing it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Why are you hiding that the first signatures for the Juncker package and on Monday, Commissioner Avramopoulos will sign up, will attend the event in Thessaloniki for the first action of the Junker package? I submit the relevant document. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let me just tell you why. Because we have an Opposition, which is old-fashioned, bad and liar, and wants what the people say, to die on the neighbor's goat. Only the neighbor, ladies and gentlemen, here is not the government. The neighbor is the Greek people, it is the Greek state. And you cannot overlook that for the Greek state, for the Greek citizens you are also due to allegiance against the IMF and against all those who are in charge of our own efforts. For the first time, however, in the agreement that can also have austerity measures and we recognise it and be difficult, because it is compromise, there is social justice, there is protection of the impossible and protection of work, and there is also a redistribution. And this also illustrates this bill, because it ensures the public nature of insurance, ensures pensions, reduces, stabilises contributions, is public in nature, and we have all done that because we have worked too hard since 15 December. And it's a lie that's a surprise and blackmail bill. It is for the first time a bill, which is five months in consultation with two full weeks of committees and with two days twenty-six hours in Parliament. And, of course, we would like, even now, to hear the positions of the parties in relation to the IMF proposals and Mr Symble at times against our country. We've heard strange statements. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will conclude in a minute, Mr President. In WASHINGTON POST, Mr.Mitsotakis took a stand in favour of the IMF's proposals against labour rights, in favour of selling public property at a good price he said, but also in favour of the reforms that Mrs.Lagard wants. Mr. Theocharis defended the IMF proposal here. Another party spokesman, as an IMF spokesman, read the fund announcement. We're waiting to get in position. Are you with the country or the IMF? We know why you are defending the cut in wages and pensions that those in charge of the country want. Because you want society and your own, that is, capital to make more profits. On the one hand, you blame us for unbearable measures, and on the other hand, because we are negotiating, because we are resisting. We are, of course, stalled because we want to defend our country and all that is not just for the chair.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u766	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u767	I'm done. You do, because with the chair you want to recover, you want to keep your own deep state, your own strife, and this policy is personalized in the face of the Chief of Anti-Population, but also in the face of Mr Samaras' extreme right side that drags from the nose of New Democracy and fills it with lies, bile, hate and fear, pouring out and undermining politics, and that is something we need to be careful about.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u768	Thank you, Mr. Femmel.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u769	Mr President, I shall conclude by saying...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u770	Just a few seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u771	We've got a clear order since September. This choice today is clearer. Neither outside the euro nor 'yes' to the neoliberal choice of the extreme right. We will keep hope with the people, because we are clean. We owe no one, and we support the need for our people to go better. That's what this bill does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u772	Thank you, Mr. Socrates Famelos, SYRIZA MP. Next is Mr Constantine Tasoulas, Member of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u773	Mr President, SYRIZA as an authentic representative of political zeroing, which includes all the evils of post-population, lies, demagogy, populism, passes today and tomorrow Ruvikon's politician. It leaves the habit of postponements, leaves the custom of the errors, leaves the habit of transferring responsibility and an interpretation of the past as it suits him and passes on a slim and occasional policy of Ruvikon and comes in contact with reality. The reality is the one that awaited you and which you have always tried to postpone. The bill for the so-called reform of the insurance and tax system, the bill that burdens the Greek people, who come to be added to, also unnecessarily, 3.6 billion last summer and the possible 3.6 billion more of the possible failure of this programme, that is to say 12 billion that you have so far loaded the Greek people, is the price of this late passage of your own sad Ruvik. Now that reality is also taking hold of the sun once again, sad and slandering and aggressive towards the past, you are trying to excite the image. It is not the image, because all over the earth, all the political controversies, where persuasiveness failed, the reason has always been the experience! You have a habit of considering - and this may be a part of the need to be politically self-indicated - that everything starts from you, that everything separates you from the past, and now the past stays behind and you express the new one. Others have said so, they have been denied, and you turn into this sad line of disguise. It's not like that. To remember Papadiamantis mentioned by Mr. Xydakis at "Chalassochorides, the country was governed by dogmatism. This dogma, neither New Democracy nor New Democracy, nor after New Democracy, were we able to defeat it. We expressed him. You expressed him as an election retreat for post-population. But you were an ideological front of post-multiple. You weren't paradoxical or delusional of dogmatism or the client system. You were the petty kids of the client system and you were the petty kids of the so-called "systemics" - their terror! - the means of informing you, which are today afflicted and rejoicing to be shaken by the economic crisis. These media, for thirty years - so-called systemically, we did not have a system in Greece, we had a client system and nothing else - they cultivated populism, they cultivated the flattery of the people's weaknesses, they cultivated the sense of the all-powerfulness of rights and prepared a common opinion, to fall satellite and captive to the "daughter" of each SYRIZA. Your great ally is the systemically supposed media, which for decades bombed the Greek people with populism, but the Greek people held back and did not vote for SYRIZA, who is nothing new. The fact that you have been disapproved for decades by the Greek people does not make you anything new. He's doing something old and tested for you. For six elections, the Greek people - for which the Prime Minister says, and curiously I agree with this that he does not eat spoon - gave you 3% and 4%. Why did the people do that? Evidently, because he doesn't eat gossip. The Greek people, however, were tested, suffered hardships. The fall of the client system brought the country down. It didn't drop an economic model that failed. The dogmatism that lasted in Greece for two hundred years fell. The dogmatism, with which none of us dared to fight, fell. We all represented him and the speaker represented him. But do you know what our difference is? We after the bankruptcy of the country were shaken and assumed our responsibilities and ignored the cost. You faced the bankruptcy of the country, as a unique opportunity to take advantage of the anger, bitterness and hardship of the Greeks, in order to resurrect politically from the ashes to which the people had condemned you, who did not eat spoon when you took 4%. That's our difference!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u774	Well done, Costa!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u775	We assumed our responsibilities after the bankruptcy of the country slowly, but we did it, while you as a swan song of post-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-mole-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-mole-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-m-multi-m. Today, through the economic ruins of the country - which you have aggravated at the moment when the country was ready, thanks to the sacrifices of the Greeks, to take the step toward the exit from the crisis - you feel that you can be seen as representing something new. You brought back the country. The price is heavy. Reality will speak. I won't talk. I know that at the moment the Greek people in apathy, the feeling of vanity, the bitterness, the abstention, do not pay much attention to what we say. I repeat that when persuasiveness is not enough, experience will be relentless for all of us. Apparently now that you've read Ruvikon, this time is coming for you too. I conclude by saying that the Minister of National Defence today in an interview with "Kathimerini" characterizes Turkey's behaviour as a funny provocative. They're not funny provocatives. It would be funny if it were not tragic. Greece has been facing another provocative order recently by Turkey. Turkey is no longer questioning our sovereign rights. Turkey confirms its own irrational, unequivocal, but unfortunately there are no sovereign views over Greece. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The fact that it disputes seventeen inhabited islands, that at the moment Turkish helicopters are flying fifty meters over inhabited islands, must worry us and grieve us all. It's not a matter of me dealing with you, or you say that's a joke. I would remind you - and I conclude, Mr President - that when Greece was in a difficult position, Turkey was taking advantage of it. In 1942, during a threefold occupation, Turkey has declared a contingency of the people of Constantinople to take them out of their jobs and imposed the boat, the exceptionally heavy property tax. In 1955, when General Papagos was ready to die and the country practically had no Prime Minister, they became September in Istanbul.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u776	But finish your thoughts if you are kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u777	Listen to this, it's serious. It's not SYRIZA words and left bullshit!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u778	Are you serious about this?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u779	In 1974, when the country was diplomaticly isolated because of the dictatorship, the invasion and occupation of 40% in Cyprus took place. The Imias took place in 1996, when we passed a phase where Greece was weak again. We had a sick and then a dead Prime Minister and later a change in the premiership. Today Greece is engaging, because the client system died, and you are trying to resurrect it in vain.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u780	What does man say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u781	Today the Greek Government must not consider the challenges of the Turks to be funny.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u782	Complete your thoughts, Mr. Tasoula.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u783	They are very serious and you must exhaust all your diplomatic and political capabilities so that you do not harm the country there too. We are voting against the tax bill but we are looking at you on the other side of your politician Ruvik's bank and we are pleased that the swan song of post-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-mperiod.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u784	Thank you, Mr. Tasoula. The speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Athanasios Vardalis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u785	Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the last two speakers, I would say that it is at least challenging for the workers and the people, the confrontation that is once again taking place in this Chamber, between the government on the one hand and the PASOK and the New Democracy on the other hand who has done and does the greatest harm to the country and, in particular, to insurance and taxation, which we are debating today. You know what you remind me of? A cartoon recently published, showing the worker on the edge of the cliff, SYRIZA on top of giving him a kick and turning back and saying in PASOK and New Democracy "it is your fault because you brought him to the edge of the cliff"! Such a confrontation. Listen, SYRIZA gentlemen, you may be tearing black tears for the eleven reductions - cuts made by the previous pensions, you may forget the one you did the twelfth but what you do with the draft law we are now discussing is the most barbaric one. You legalize them all and add one more to them. That's what you're doing. What do you mean, in practice? Whatever happened, it's done. Whatever's cut off, it's cut. Cement to be done. That's what you tell the workers and the populace. You've become manoeuvres in political deception. Because some do what they have forgotten about how the reserves have been wings and you write them down. Is it, for example, as you say the old political system or is it the one year that SYRIZA ruled, as others say? It's a big dilemma. We don't know about Nobel, but maybe a hypocritical award you could both claim with claims. Today, for example, which memorandum are we applying, the third that you have voted on last, or all three together are being implemented? The truth is that all three are being implemented. Why? Because no measure has been taken behind the previous memoranda, the memorials that have been voted on by the previous speakers and which you are criticising. All the preceding ones are applied and applied as provided for in the third Memorandum. That's why your confrontation is callous. One builds, on the bases set by the previous one, that is in practice. So don't try and find out which memorial of three has done the greatest harm. You are all referring to the carcinoma of deficits that even raise public debt. You're hypocrites. There are deficits precisely because at the other end there is the profitability of capital, which the previous governments support with their policy and today. Of course, there is one thing, but that is why the workers and the people of our country are not responsible. You hide that the funds have lost income due to unemployment, black work and impoverished wages than non-compliance with the State's obligations. All the stealing and all of this is the result of everyone's politics. Of course, this has not been done in general and has not been done vaguely. The aim was to support the profitability of the large capital, so these measures were taken. We also reject the government's arguments, which, of course, the previous ones used to use, that changes should be made to eliminate injustices and inequalities in the system. Minister, if the sense of social injustice was your motive rather than the pretext, then you should really take measures and upgrade the position and role of workers and workers, pensioners, with arrangements upwards and not as you do downwards. You're lying fat when you claim that the main pensions are not reduced. Tell us, for example, what about pensions in public. Literally maintain all the reinsurance logic of the previous Law of Loverdos - Koutromani as far as the calculation of the pension is concerned. So you break pension into national and payroll. You are worsening the way in which the pension is calculated, which, in its sum with the national body, results in crumbs, far less than those given by previous insurance laws. All civil servants who will be in retirement tomorrow with forty years of service will have reductions of 29% in the HRs of up to 35% in the IP. Is that so, Minister, or is it not? Why do you speak only of replacement rates when you refer to examples? Why don't you bring an example that says what the retired man, who was going out to date, and what will he get tomorrow? One such example we want you to bring.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u786	We gave it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u787	You didn't give anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u788	We gave the press release with Mr. Stathakis and Mr. Tsakalotos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u789	Good to repeat. We are telling you concrete examples from the government, from the HR to the IPs. For the pensioners already, you will see a new budget in the new way. If there is a difference, you will return for the next three years a very small part of this difference, which you call it a personal difference, and only if this difference is more than 20%. Besides, what do you say to just Greek through this provision, Minister? You say that there is a possibility - you say that, we are sure, and I told you the percentages of pension reduction - that pensions should be reduced and more than 20% and that you put this provision. So you also agree that such reductions will exist. Also, public workers should know, that it will increase from 6% to 20% the rate for the recognition of fictitious years of service, that, with your income criteria, a large proportion of the pensioners will lose the child's allowance, which everyone gets today. While the one-off has already fallen by 38%, you also add a 15% reduction to 20%. We should be aware that supplementary pensions will be ‘negotiated’. Of the twelve dividends of the Equity Fund, four will go for a walk. So we'll have a 33% reduction. At the same time, with all this, civil servants will also see an increase in taxes and a reduction in tax. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One more minute, Mr President, like everyone else. You wondered twice today, Minister, and you asked us asking: What do you want, reduce contributions or reduce pensions? Let's tell you what you're supposed to do, then. The contributions of workers initially must not only be increased but, on the contrary, reduced and on the one hand abolished. At the same time, there must be a modern public system that pays state and employers, with stable work, with faster retirement, with people's pensions, with free health and welfare services, and that is why workers produce and create all this wealth with their work. They ensure the production of profits, the concentration of capital, its profitability. The workers don't owe anyone. State, government and capital all owe them. One will, of course, wonder where the budget will get the money in the situation we are actually in, invoking the deficits. If we agree that on the other end of the deficits lies the profitability of large capital, then things are just, we will find the solution. There cannot, for example, be money for the capital, which you can easily share with the new development law that you have put in the consultation and that there is no money for the workers, for the pensioners. Therefore, satisfying the current needs, for pensions, health, welfare, goes through the conflict, with the policy at its centre having sustainability - be careful! - not social security, but the sustainability of profits, the development of the competitiveness of large capital. Winning capital and ensuring its profitability will not be a victory for the people as you all support.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u790	Finish, please, Mr. Bardalis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u791	I'll be done. The victory of the people will arise only through the conflict with capital and those who defend their profitability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u792	Thank you Mr Vardalis, MP of the Communist Party of Greece. Mr. George Mavrotas from the river. I would ask for time-respect to speak as many colleagues as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u793	Thank you very much, Mr President. Our politicians in the last thirty years should not be at all proud of how the insurance system has become - a favorable, customer-made creation. Those who were close to the ears of power or had votes to cast, were generously treated. Because there is no free meal, someone had to pay for the policy politicians, i.e. early pensions, plastic pensions, thick ones, overcompensation rates, and he guessed who it was: the state budget. So we have reached EUR 200 billion in the last 15 years from the state budget to the insurance company's corvant. For a size class, let me tell you that the famous PSI, which is a lot of talk about, was about 14 billion euros, that is, 7% of that amount. In the past, we have lost opportunities to rationalise the system, more importantly with Tasos Yannitsi's attempt 15 years ago. We called him and he told us in committee. Unfortunately, however, the relentless political system together with the trade unionists and, of course, the support of some populists - not to forget them - of the media, prevented any change and the slower you fix a problem, the less they are being abused. As you know in Greece, painful decisions are referred to as the bells in the future. The future, however, when you don't prepare it, comes with a fortress and breaks in your face. But let's look forward. During the loan period, we had easy solutions, which were not fair. Today we have to go to fair solutions, but they are not easy. It's a difficult problem almost unsolved for an over-explored country that doesn't produce, grows and refuses to change. Let's look at the data. Three and a half million workers, one million two thousand unemployed, two million euros six hundred thousand pensioners, a ratio of 1 to 1.3 employees to pensioners. The math here is relentless. They don't haggle. You can't tell me about demagogues. Yes, indeed, there were no uniform rules. This insurance lays down uniform rules but wrong rules. It is not fair even in the medium term. It's not fair, because it rewards the "whoever got it, got it" and the younger ones will pay a lot to get a little - if they get it. It's not even sustainable in the medium term, because it's confusing things. Other tax system, other preferential system, other pension scheme. You guys are trying to build three in one. In its report, the Economic and Social Committee also says so in the Committee's report. You are trying to create a redistributive system, which is a business of taxation, which will last two to three years, with the reason "until then who lives, who dies". For our three-pillar proposal you have heard from our speakers. It's a new social contract that needs the place. It simulates the systems introduced into Europe since the 1990s and comes to bring balance to all the issues mentioned above and consists of three pillars, as we said: the state, which is like today's main pension, the professional, as the current supplementary pension and the supplementary pension, with private insurance. The main difference with the government's bill is the remuneration of contributions and flexibility, which does not exist in this bill. Here, allow me a parentheses. Because I hear it from a number of colleagues in the Couple and Mr Xydakis before, to end the story that says that you too voted for the agreement in the summer, to tell you once and for all, to know it. In the summer we voted on the destination, to stay in Europe. The route you decided to engrave it yourself. But in Australia, you can go through Singapore, via Bangkok or even via Tokyo. You, however, have decided to go Australia through New York, and you think we are obliged to put you on gas. Let me say a few words about taxation, and here I am going to be honest. It is the best tax bill possible, but for Bulgaria and for Cyprus, where they will go running, if the businesses they can have already gone. It is a tax matter, in order to support a state-owned system, because it does not cross your mind that you can cut costs from a waste State, and so you will lead far more people to tax evasion and tax evasion, since they are now connected, giving them a convenient alibi. But for you the private sector has always been invisible. You only remember him when you're going to collect taxes. Churchill said that the private sector others see him as a tiger predator, who should shoot, some like a well-bred cow who should milk and some like a powerful horse that should pull the carriage of the country. You either see him as a tiger predator, who you want to shoot at, like some of your ministers, who have taken a doctorate into how we're privatising investments, or you see him as a cow, who you have to milk, as is the case with taxation. But this time the cow has been sketched and no more milk to give. I conclude by saying that the government, unfortunately, in the sixteen months in power, has been taken over by an obsession. How he's gonna stay in power doing nothing. Or rather not doing anything but doing assignments and ruffles. Not that they didn't do the same before, but they were conservatives, they were right. But you confirm with your behaviour the words of Eduarto Galeano, which says "The authority is like the violin. You first catch it with the left and you continue playing with the right”. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u794	Thank you, Mr. George Mavrota. Mr Georgios Vagionas, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u795	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a little more respect between us does not hurt and a little more truth to everyone will do. The insurance has a long-term pathogen. I'm not going to the period of Metaxas or Venizelos. I've been coming in the last twenty-five years. The first impact of a radical change in insurance took place at the beginning of 1990. He was the Mitsotakis Prime Minister and Sifas Minister. Then there was the problem that the basic pension was 80% of the last salary. But it didn't work out, and there had to be a change. The proposal was to make 60% and some other amendments. Unfortunately, the whole of the opposition was negative and it became 70%. It lasted for a few years, to “become the ideas of Yannitsi at the end of the 1990s, which did not even reach the parliament. That's the reality. Since then, the law has come in 2008 and the law of Petelias has come. I'm saying this so that the Left and the Opposition are not ruthless. The insurance is common to everyone. What were we talking about? We were tired at that time of doing the forty - seven insurance funds three. Unfortunately, there have not been three, there have been seven of them - many of them many and many of them. But what made me an alpine impression at that time was the fact - and I am talking about SYRIZA, represented by my friend, Michael Kritsotakis - that, when he is going to give me an additional pension, he must have some kind of economic study, he must have a joint signature of the Minister of Labour and the Minister of Finance. It was undeniable that the directive was a few, and it was if it was more than 20% of the basic pension that this signature should exist. But no, maniac. That's not what happened. The insurance funds have become seven, and now they must be three. I now come to today's pathogen. I understand the difficulties of the Minister of Labour. I understand that it is not insurance, it is more economic, because when the income levy is linked and it is good, but something is wrong and it is wrong, because, I don't know, in the period that we are going through - tomorrow we have the Eurogroup - we want the evaluation. If things go well, you have a chance of taking off two years with the insurance bill, because - I'll be specific -...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u796	But if I may, because you're a very serious speaker...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u797	I'll allow you to do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u798	To the employees on the basis of income, wasn't it? Why not apply it to the other charges?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u799	Because it's for young people. You're putting very unbearable taxes on new lawyers, doctors, engineers. They're two-thirds to pay and one-third to live. On the contrary, you come to the great age of doctors, lawyers, engineers, who have two - three pensions, which they have paid for for forty years and you say today, when these pensions are from IKA and CSAY, from IKA and from the State, from the NSA - National Health System - from two sources and are around 3,300 to 3,500 - to God, I do not say, they have to contribute more, they have to contribute half - to contribute more than half. You're a colonist. There's a problem there. No one denies all these things. We have to help, but not like this. Because - and the third reason, and more importantly - do not consider that you will receive this. The evasion and the avoidance will reach the ground. Because when the other guy doesn't have to feed his family, he won't pay contributions. This is demonstrated by the outstanding debts. And I tell you that 2009 was EUR 30 billion. In 2014, 75 billion were made. In the fourteen months until March, 89 billion have been made. So without tax ability, and with unemployment so much and wage cuts, if unemployment is not hit if investment is not made, then things will not go well. Pension costs, by 2060, are 16% of GDP. From that state alone, it can put up with 5.5 billion and I call it, because this 2.5% income is stable on the basis of 2009 data, and it will also go until 2060. But with that, you need to cover, as you say, the national pension - for which you are on, I confess, but I do not agree with you - when the tip of the OGA pension, which did not pay EUR 1, was EUR 450 in 2006. It wasn't a pension. You were wrong to call it a pension, Mr. Minister of Rural Development. It was a 100 drachma allowance, which began in 1955. What I am surprised at is supplementary pension, the ECHR. These by 2018 they'll be gone, they'll be over. We're gonna make a few million of this. From the ESS you will get about 2.5 million and need it. You did well to extend until 2021 those who took retirement on 31-7-2016, but from now on, things are radically changing. I repeat, if they don't change tactics, and I'm glad to see a good sign anymore... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The full-hearted squirrel had risen. The Squirrels were signed yesterday by the Minister responsible, as he signed the Olympiad two months ago, and people are working there and are now getting to work and others to make the workers two thousand, because not only did he accept the 11 decisions of the Council of State but it doesn't seem strange to you, at that place where the little one is the Attica, eight observation stations of all pollutants of the environment have been built so far and three more will be built. We welcome Mr. Skourletis' signature. I'm happy about that, and I'm glad to thank him. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u800	Thank you, Mr. Vagiona. Let us be aware that from now on we are entering the category of registered speakers, whose time is five minutes and I would ask that it be respected. Mr. Fokas has the floor, from the Centro Association, for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u801	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that it is very difficult to legislate with the gun to the head. But the truth is, the sole responsibility for the dramatic turn that the government of Alexis Tsipras has. You want to close this horror, which has been baptised for 'insurance reform', to show the Eurogroup on Monday that you are the good guys and, as you say, take advantage of the measures adopted as a negotiating tool. The bad news is, as many times as you negotiated this year and a half, you are pushing the Greek people more and more towards the abyss. This is not a negotiation, it is a joke, ladies and gentlemen, a joke repeated with creepy similarities in the last six years, and the previous ones from you have been negotiating on a similar basis. Indeed, they, like Mr Katrugalos, were celebrating, who is now happy, because he has succeeded in ensuring that supplementary pensions do not fall by more than 40%. The same man who declares himself proud of this abortion that destroys the private sector and leans on the new generation. But really, aren't you embarrassed? Didn't you hear the engineers calling you that this bill is a crime for today's and tomorrow's generations? The security officers you are leveling, not recognizing the specificities of their profession? The economists, accountants, tax technicians, who warned you that increasing dividend tax is now a strong incentive to investment? The lawyers who have proved to you that this bill threatens by exterminating scientists and free traders? Obviously you can't hear them. Your ears still sound the sounds of the whispers and turtles you would hit. Not that the other guys were better. Neither have you dared to make real, substantial reforms, reforms that the place needs to get out of the mud, fearing the political gut. You don't want to see, to hurt your electoral clientele, the drones and the government's slow payroll, and you chose to exterminate the free professionals and scientists. You have become Albanian national benefactors, Skopje, turning Greek entrepreneurs into immigrants. So you refused all the Centrons' proposals for substantial areas and you chose the scorched one, which leads to the total impoverishment of the Greeks. But what does the new insurance mean? Loss for those who haven't retired. Reduction of up to 40% in disability pensions, phasing-out of CSR by 2020, a reduction of up to 40% in supplementary pensions, a reduction of up to 15% in one-off. Reductions of up to 32% in dividends, reductions in widow’s pension beneficiaries, increase in contributions, consolidations of funds, increases in contributions from free professionals, for those who dared to have an income of more than EUR 11 000, a national pension - in exchange for EUR 384. For these crumbs it takes twenty years to work! One can finally find out by looking at you today, ladies and gentlemen, how right Andreas Voutsinas had when he said that chairs create hemorrhoids in mind. For one thing, the lust of power can be a great temptation, but it has a hard price. It triumphantly triumphs, but forever it destroys. You have achieved the impossible, to turn against you in just a year and a year and a people who believed in you, a people who had denounced the impunity and political crimes of the former and sought the hope that you promised him. So the people who trusted you and betrayed you will punish you for your lies, for your hypocrisy, for your arrogance, for your refusal to propose the national interest above the sterile party! This is the fate of politicians, isolation. Too bad for them! But most of all, it's too bad for the country! Listen, finally, to your conscience! Set up a political stature! Honor your oath and say a great "no" to this insurance abortion! Fight against the measures! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u802	Thank you, Mr. Fokas. Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u803	Give me a little more time, Mr President, and the previous seven minutes spoke with nine.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u804	No, it's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u805	All right, we've been prepared, we've been here since this morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u806	You have prepared, but you are registered speakers and should know, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that time is five minutes. If you talk more, you'll take time from the next one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u807	The previous ones had to speak seven minutes and you left them nine and ten minutes to speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u808	How much?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u809	And ten minutes you let them talk. Of the seven minutes, they spoke for ten minutes. Anyway...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u810	That's not our point right now. Please keep your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u811	Dear colleagues, Christ resurrected, many years! We say it is time for our people to give strong command to a new coalition of power to stop this catastrophe. We say 'yes', we say we will make a return ticket to the dangerous 'populars of the five', to the infamous Mr Tomsen and to his company, who are engaged in medical experiments on the body of an economy, a society and a country. We'll finally stop - this is our goal - this country's assisted suicide. It has been a long time since - it was 24-2-2012 - and I think Mr Tsipras and his ministers have forgotten that. Is today when the measures are being discussed and co-formulated with the troika, including the present insurance bill, and even by introducing, as I will mention below, measures which are not provided for in the Memorandum, the 'terrorists of the Troika' have ceased to be dangerous? Or did you, gentlemen of SYRIZA, become dangerous for the country with your insurmountable and isotopeic policy? Do you now experiment with the country? Do you now exercise "false" exercise gymnastic exercise, in a country where every day it goes backwards and is slowing down both your actions and your omissions? Yes, along with me, the Greek people also ask me: What is happening, gentlemen, is the end of the "false" and now the speculators and the "troika of destruction", as you said at the time, became the good ones? There's got to be some gum and there's finally got to be one! Then he said - to remember well - Mr Tsipras 'is there another way'? Of course there's another way. The other way, however, goes through a strong political will to break and not through directing the last act of the bankruptcy of our people and leaving the eurozone, because this will soon happen with your own decisions. How irony! The other way, the road of SYRIZA's previous policy and the danger of exiting the euro, our people have been on their feet for sixteen months. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the bill under discussion and to proof of the consistency of your works and your words, which is chaos and the mockery of the Greek people, I continue with the words of Prime Minister Tsipras himself for word: "We have our proposals to introduce new resources for the insurance system. A social clause in public works, a social clause on immovable property, a special exceptional levy on all transactions carried out through credit institutions, which will only be borne by credit institutions, a special levy on credit transactions. Further use of public property. Why should the Property Fund serve the lenders rather than the insurance funds? Why should the ELIOS programme, Mr Kegeroglu, pay the creditors rather than the funds? That's what Mr. Tsipras said four years ago. I am tabling the relevant text. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitris Kyriazides, presents for the minutes the above text, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You'll tell me it's been a long time. But, indeed, Mr Minister, what exactly do you propose and what did your Prime Minister put to the attention of the Greek people? What's going on now? What are you coming to tell us today? At that time you said that a proportionate study was not necessary. Is there a need today for a proportionate study, Minister? Question by the current Prime Minister to the Prime Minister at the time raised the following question: 'On the basis of what proportionate studies has the reduction in basic and supplementary pensions been decided in cooperation with the troika?' Today, why is a proportionate study not necessary, Minister? The answer is given by this bill. Nothing! Not only nothing, but you're tearing down the whole thing that you've received. You are shaking and destroying public security, the social security system with structures and measures that no one would ever think of taking. Is the economy really gonna survive over 30%? Will new jobs be created? Will anyone dare open up a business in Greece, when a businessman collects 100 euros and 80 euros are for retentions of all kinds? In fact, only grief and anxiety about our country are today's regulations. I come to an issue that particularly touches me on the issue of the Security and Armed Forces of the country. After the unprecedented impunity of the Government in implementing the decisions of the Council of State, the President of the ANELs would resign if that were not the case - you are coming today in an unexpected way to abolish it. What is going to happen with the provisions which a House must specifically govern with specific and life-threatening provisions? You don't recognize anything. Thirty-five years of real service with the specificities of the Security and Armed Forces' premises must be counted, Minister, to forty-two. You should take this seriously. I can't understand how when a man is being murdered in service in the performance of his duty, his widow and his orphans are staying unprotected. That's what you bring with these settings. Here is, if you want, the difficult thing, namely to understand the arrangements you teach us and at our meetings, you have attempted in a particular way to convince us so that they are required by our side. Unfortunately, today you are abolishing all this and, unfortunately, you are not applying it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u812	Please complete your thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u813	Of course you say - and I hear from colleagues - that it is a historic necessity for dogmatism, as Mr Tassoula said, to create a special status on your part. Irregularities, agencies, administrations, dozens of arrangements, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u814	Good. Finish it, Mr. Cryazides.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u815	Mr President, as I have been waiting here since 2012 for an apology, a remorse on the part of SYRIZA colleagues for particular references, such as those for a fur shop you threatened us, for lynching, characterisations, I would say, particularly provocative. We also heard in here about donors, pilgrims, germans...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u816	Mr. Cryazides, please complete your thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u817	Now what can anyone call you? That you're Vermacht, the SS? Who are you? In any case, what should the people be shouting from tomorrow? Down with the junta of SYRIZA and the "Expressed Greeks"?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u818	Thank you very much. Mr. Jason Fotillas from the river has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u819	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we were suddenly informed Thursday evening that the EUR 5.4 billion austerity package with new cuts in people's pensions and incomes will be discussed in plenary with hundreds of additional amendments at night. Is Mr. Chakalotos still a Minister with his so-called'red' lines on duty? I heard him earlier saying unregulatedly that he is proud of the work and that his word is a contract. All I can tell him is "if he knows the other thing with Toto", because that's not so good. In fact, the epilogue of this disastrous SYRIZA - ANEL government is being written. Your time had started to count vice versa since October, when households started putting their hand in the pocket to pay taxes and contributions in the other "superior" negotiation and let fairy tales that suddenly the preventive measures of 3,5 billion euros appeared in the last month. In accordance with Article 13 of the Statute of the ESM in the summer of 2015, you signed a memorandum of understanding, which clearly states that the terms are revised every quarter, taking into account the progress of the reforms. You knew them from the outset, but you were consciously delayed to complete the evaluation from October, raising the account for the citizens every day. A result of the additional EUR 3.5 billion with redundancies and new reductions in wages and pensions, which you now do not want to vote on. Don't cry anymore, Mr. Chakatte! However, if the measures of EUR 5.4 billion are implemented, they will lead to the redundancy of the insured and taxpayers, which will amount to 55% to 56% of their gross income. In order to be directly aware of what this is all about, a lawyer with an income of EUR 20,000 will have to pay for taxes and contributions every year EUR 11,901 per year, on the basis of the new insurance, tax. A farmer with the same income, 9,630 euros. We don't talk about that. The Economic and Social Committee says them, which is an institution which advises the government of the country. Of course, it has nothing to do with the river proposal for a direct link between contributions and the basic pension paid. Our proposal with the three pillars is fairer for the new generation and more sustainable, as it does not lead to the evasion. You thought the ability to create impressions is enough to get the favor of public opinion. But the show is enough when the bread is given. When the bread ends, the spectacles of the spectacles are turned into fireplaces. Your MPs are already experiencing them in the most bad way. I don't know if you heard the citizens who were gathered out of the House. Have the citizens realised that there are even worse days coming and asking, pointing out, when will this 'first time left' finally be left? It is next for people to turn their backs on Mr. Tsipras, when for communications and only reasons he prefers to hire cleaners instead of nurses and doctors with tragic consequences for the health of thousands of cancer patients, when he abolishes the reforms at the Greek universities and prosecutes those brilliant teachers who had stumbled unfamiliarly to offer their lights. It is next people to turn their backs on him when he attempts to equate down private schools with public schools and reduce the hours in the entire day's municipal schools when he arrives to legislate the release of the architrocrat of "17 November" Savva Xirou and does not succeed in keeping in prison the murderer of Paul Bryssa, when he manipulates justice, giving sentences to judges, but encouraging them to sue those who dare to criticise such as constitutionalist Stavros Tsakirakis. It is next for the world to turn its back on Mr. Tsipras, when he remains a non-profit-making viewer of thousands of Greek companies that download rolls in Greece or go abroad because they cannot afford to endure ever-growing taxation. From 26% to 29% for up to 50,000 euros you did it. It is next that people turn their backs on Mr. Tsipras, when he is not ashamed to invoke the moral advantage, at the same time that he hires relatives and relatives without studies and with non-existent curriculum in important positions in the government machine, when he breaks the Constitution, to reduce the licenses of the annoying channels and to grant them to the canals of his choice - even Turks - claiming that he beats the conflict in this way, while at the same time he meets repetitively canals and publishers secretly, drinking cafes and chatting friendlyly. It is next that people turn their backs when they are unable to understand the seriousness of national issues and behave with dangerous amateurism in powerful and aggressive countries and regions along with the unremovable Mr. Kammenos. [[At this point, the end of the speech bell of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] I would like a minute, Mr President. It is next time for the world to turn its back on Mr. Tsipras, when even in the refugee, migration shows monumental weakness in managing the situation, when he does not care about the one and a half million private workers, while voting for 150 million increases for his six hundred thousand civil servants, voters. Bet, ladies and gentlemen of the government, in a solution to the debt problem and reverse the climate. You're making a mistake for two reasons: Firstly, lenders will not give any tangible solution to the debt issue, at least not as you promised. Debt now belongs to states, and it will have to go through twenty-eight parliaments and governments. They will prefer to sacrifice Mr. Tsipras who, of course, has changed to their persuasive submissive or even our own country. Secondly, even if the debt were to be zeroed tomorrow, no one would be willing to lend the Greek state or the Greek banks. The main problem of the Greek economy, moreover, beyond the debt - let us be honest - is bureaucracy, partisanism, high taxation, high insurance costs, the absence of a stable tax system, low competitiveness, hostility to the private sector and entrepreneurship and much more. So you've been counting days for a long time, even though you've been spending your time. The only question that concerns us is the real intentions of Mr. Tsipras, but above all the situation that will be called...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u820	Finish your thoughts, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u821	I'm done. ...to deal with the next government, which should be a government of cooperation between European and reformist forces, whenever the elections take place. The citizens are now aware that while you remain in power, the disaster grows and you must leave as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u822	Thank you, Mr. Firela. Mr. Constantine Barbarousis has the floor since the Golden Dawn for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u823	Thank you, Mr President. The truth is, the most infamous insurance I expected you to bring it to the vote on the Great Friday. Along with the crucifixion of Christ you would crucify the Greek people. I fell out. You're very good and I wonder what you're accused of being atheist. You have just let the citizens celebrate the holy days, bake their oblivion - those who had the opportunity to do so - and now back to the cruel reality. Back to the increases in insurance contributions, to the additional taxes and to the reduction of wages and pensions, which will lead to the further impoverishment of the Greek people, to the increase in suicide and to a new wave of immigration abroad of those young Greeks left in our country. Of course, that doesn't matter at all. You have the alternative in your pocket. You will legalise the hordes of the other religious and foreign illegal immigrants who have invaded our homeland, you will give them Greek citizenship and will gain my own social protection and a decent living. On the other hand, for the Greek who daily fights to survive in these inhumane conditions, no reason to live. On the contrary, you are making sure to destroy him. 80% of the measures to save EUR 3 billion in four years 2016-2019 will come from cuts in the remuneration of CSR pensions - main and ancillary pensions - in one-off and dividends and only 20% from increases in contributions to subsidiary and main insurance and health care. Large losers will be the low pensioners, as and three hundred and fifty thousand of them will lose the CSR from this year to 2019. In addition, no additional revenue is recorded from the better use of the assets of the insurance funds. I am referring, Minister, to the famous new resources of the insurance system, which the government boasted would find, and thus avoid any reduction in basic and supplementary pensions and in general all insurance benefits. They are affected by over a million free professionals, as with the new insurance even those who declare income just EUR 20,000 per year are obliged to pay higher contributions to the OSH than the premium they paid up to today. The higher the amount of income, the more the burden of income tax is multiplied. For example, the contributions of free professionals with an income of 70,000 euros annually are increased by up to 223%! Also, because you have an issue here in SYRIZA with the 'creative ambiguity' and you are confusing us a little, on the basis of Articles 17(6) and 36(7), if I understood correctly, Minister, do you want to abolish Article 39 of Law 2084, which allows an insurance body to be chosen? What do you mean? Is it compulsory for those who have been relieved of their insurance in the IKA?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u824	There is, from now on, an insurer only.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u825	Also shown by the article...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u826	He didn't get it. Say it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u827	I get it. But that's what it says here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u828	Vote for a Memorandum of Understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u829	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u830	It is also apparent from Articles 39(1a) and 41(2) that the insurance contributions will reach 26.95% in all types of companies. Meaning? As far as farmers in this bill are concerned, they are punishable more than any other sector, and they are punishable and not reforming in terms of both taxation and insurance for those who produce and declare minimum incomes, since for an average farmer with an income of EUR 20,000, basic aid of EUR 5 000 - insured in the third category of the OGA - the burden is at 118%, please, and that is not what I say, the figures say. Indeed, there are few people who say that in 2016 the beginning of the end of the rural economy will prove to be the start of the rural economy with unforeseen consequences for the country, as the account for farmers will be well above EUR 1 billion. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One more minute, Mr President. If the huge delays in payments are taken into account, the offsetting and confiscation of subsidies, as well as the scenarios that want green and associated aids, should be taken into account in taxable income, asphyxiation in rural areas should be seen as more than given. Of course that doesn't happen randomly. The dissolution of the country's primary production has been under way for years. It has been signed by several treacherous governments in the past. The same and worse you do today. I would like to ask you all the scientists here and especially you, Minister, if you know how to tell me when to retire and what amount? Is it the 300 euros you say on sixty-seven? I would like to ask you another question: does any of you know in here, how much money has he paid up to its insurance funds to date? Whoever knows, let me know. Do you know, Minister, what have you paid up to today in your insurance fund? Of course no one knows. I don't know either. Neither do any Greeks know. We are the only state in the world that its citizens do not know how much they pay and what they will get behind what they pay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u831	Complete your thoughts, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u832	I would like ten seconds, Mr President. As long as the Greek people vote for parties at random without ideology, they are doomed. The Greek must wake up and finally vote, with national criteria, to stop believing so much lies and to understand that with his vote he can destroy entire generations. In the 1974 elections, the dilemma was: "Karamanlis or tanks". In the elections that will take place, when the good is done, the dilemma will be, "Gold Dawn or loan shark pawns", not to say worse, "Gold Dawn or Islam". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u833	Mr Vassilis Tsirkas, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u834	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, the government was in front of a crossroad. Either make radical reforms in the insurance system or let social security collapse. We have been called upon to change the bad texts of all the previous governments, which have reached the insurance funds and the country itself to the limits of the disaster. After managing the insurance funds by the PASOK governments, which resulted in a deep crisis in the insurance system, after the involvement of the insurance funds in speculative games with the Stock Exchange and the subsequent crisis, after the PSI and the structured bonds, it is known that the pensions were exposed and the insurance funds were looted. So it is not possible to talk about destruction now, those who destroyed the insurance funds with the criminal PSI, which cost EUR 13 billion in their reserves, those who reduced wages and pensions, those who launched unemployment and black and uninsured work. They cannot speak of destruction, of those calling on the lenders to have an even harder attitude to the Left Government. Who wanted - and the Greek people do not forget this - and they still want to fail the negotiation, because it is a fact that they are shaking in front of the idea that the 'left parenthesis' scenarios do not come out? So everyone knows that SYRIZA's governance for the one and a half million unemployed is not responsible for the collapse of the funds after the PSI. At the moment, however, it is on our backs to lift this heavy burden and we are called upon to stand up to address this national problem and to give a solution. We are bringing about a reform that protects the weak, ensures full pensions and distributes tax burdens and social charges more fairly and proportionately and ensures the sustainability of the insurance system. Our proposal is based on the opposite of all the bills brought forward by the Samara - Venizelos government, which have mainly had the horizontal reduction in pensions, the zero deficit clause, the subsidiary, the full compensation of the insurance system, the abolition of tax. They have once again promoted burdens on the weak. So they're lying. They continue the campaign of disinformation and destruction, distort the truth for both insurance and tax bills. With our proposal for the new tax system, 61% of taxpayers who are third-party and multi-tier on the basis of this proposal, will pay from now on a lower tax rate. The bill shows our political will to gradually alleviate taxpayers and the insured. Based on official figures of over 90% of the agricultural world, based on declarations of their income, they will not be charged by the combination of tax and insurance bills. At the same time, farmers ensure a decent pension, with national pensions and those which will be added to it. The old farmer will not be a second-class citizen when, in ten years' time, everyone knows that without this insurance reform, the farmer's basic pension would go to zero while today it is only 172 euros. But I want as a lawyer to deal with the consequences...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u835	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u836	I heard you, Mr. Kegeroglu. I am ambitious to go back to this profession after this parliamentary adventure. But that's not the point. With the current status of a new lawyer with a gross income of 5,000 euros and a few years of work pays insurance contributions of 1,800 euros. Its total burden on the tax and insurance bills is about EUR 2,600. With this bill, it will pay insurance contributions of about 1,700 euros and the total cost of insurance and tax bills will be 2,500. It will, in other words, be a burden of about EUR 100 less. For an insured lawyer practicing the profession over five years and its gross income is 10,000 euros, he will pay about 1,700 euros less. So far, that is, he has paid for an insurance contribution of around EUR 4,000, while now he will pay EUR 1.897. The total burden was EUR 6,164 and the new bill will be EUR 4,450. It is true that the law is going through a crisis in our country and our fellow lawyers know very well who brought the law into this situation. I myself am well aware of the situation in the fighting law, what is the situation for new colleagues. However, one cannot claim that this situation has been burdened by a SYRIZA Government. We are fighting this situation to overthrow it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall close, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. The majority of the Greek people have commanded that the bipartisanism which has been forcibly committed to the backs of the Greeks be broken. The only way to get the country out of this unprecedented crisis is to develop, to increase, in other words, the wealth produced and to redistribute it fairly. Greece needs to finally enter a smooth period, without any further surprises. The Greek people need stability so that they can work and produce on a fertile soil. This government can create this framework for stability, growth, in a fair and sustainable direction. Just one final point, Minister. We call on you, as SYRIZA MPs, to look again at the provision for new professional scientists, who, in fact, are lighting up in relation to the current situation. We must, however, give them the possibility of not having to pay the rest of the difference in insurance contributions during their working life. I think that is an issue that will also be accepted by the legal body.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u837	Thank you Mr. Vassilis Tsirkas, SYRIZA Member. Mr Petros Constantineas, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u838	Ladies and gentlemen, we have had more than six difficult years to come here to the Greek Parliament to draw up a draft law, which we had to do much earlier, whether we had memoranda or not. The insurance reform manages to protect the most vulnerable economic groups through the replacement rates. On the contrary, creditors’ requirements led to pensions below the poverty line. The vast majority of pensioners are protected, without any reduction in the main pensions, what we promised. On the contrary, the Governments of New Democracy and PASOK of the last five years had taken down a "soft ten", I would say, in the cuts. We did not know when they would stop if they did not come down from the government with the Greek people's decision to bring SYRIZA as a government for the first time. The draft law allocates taxes and social security contributions more equitable and proportionately. The government maintained the main pensions and raised the tax base. For the first time, the main burden will fall on the highest incomes. An injustice that the children of the family wanted to be a tax burden criterion is no longer valid. Third-party and multi-texts of 70%, according to the proposal put forward by this government, will pay less tax from now on. The small and medium-sized free professionals, the backbone of the Greek economy, will find themselves in the face of a political choice, the abolition of insurance charges. I'm a professional, and I know very well what this is. Nearly 80% of the free professions will bring much less than the tampering break of the insurance class they are experiencing today. Ladies and gentlemen, let us go to another place. It makes us a terrible impression that the absolute matching of the New Democracy with the International Monetary Fund. That's never happened before. How can one forget the encouragement - is Mr Adonis Georgiadis also present - for an even harder attitude than the IMF in negotiating? How can anyone comment on the WASHINGTON POST interview by Mr Mitsotakis, the President of the Anti-Population Officer, who said about collective redundancies, reductions in public and private wages, privatizations in every infrastructure in the country? In fact - and I am addressing my fellow Members of the Opposition - in the Easter period, when we went to our villages, what did you say to them? Did you tell the world about your Chief's address on a zero deficit clause in supplementary pensions? From the Step of the House, Mr. Mitsotakis said so. Did you tell the farmers that you have proposed withholding subsidies from the OGA insurance funds? This is where we talked. Did you say your suggestions, or are you just campaigning on TVs? Usually that's what you do. You have all social media.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u839	No one asked us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u840	Behind you knows better. Everything in private! Wherever you are, that's what you say. You ask for a state-run body, insecure, weak, poor and manipulated by any intertwined Golden Boy. You know the manajares, so they can do that. The neoliberal motif you're imparting, gentlemen of the Anti-Population, gentlemen of the New Democracy, is a long way from the light years of the man who created the New Democracy, Constantine Karamanlis. And it refers to its statute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u841	Is Karamanlis on SYRIZA and he doesn't know about it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u842	Look at what your president wrote and then come. So it mentions equality, popular sovereignty and the fact that the free economy cannot exclude the expansion of the economic sector it controls - I stress - the state and not the private sector. I'll give it to the Minutes to read it. I'll testify more in the Minutes. What was Mr Adonis Georgiadis saying - who would very much like to be a government - Vice-President of the major opposition in the 'Parapolistica'?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u843	Third time! I'll take the floor later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u844	He said: 'It cannot be said in a bankrupt country that we constantly say elections costing 3 to 4 billion euros'. Obviously, Mr Georgiadis, we are not bankrupt because we have surpluses this year. Are you asking for elections now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u845	Did we say elections?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u846	Your president asks for it at every interview. We've had oxygen!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u847	But please complete your thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u848	I'm sorry. I'm going to make one last speech on friends, PASOK colleagues. I'm going to testify an old interview with Mr. Yannitsi, Mr. Kegeroglu. You know very well how he left your government at night. Here's the interview. And I tell you - he said it in the House when you invited him - that 80% of the public funds debt is because there were no government reforms. The government was you. He said it here. Leave the others and read his statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u849	Yes, but please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u850	I'll tell you the last one. The draft law we are working on today is an opportunity of our own and will not go lost, whether some want it or not. Either they want it on the twitter or they don't want it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u851	Mr. Georgiadis again!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u852	I want to create a political culture and not break TVs, Mr. Georgiades! I respect you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u853	All right, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u854	Some, Mr Georgiadis - my voice has been closed - they are written in history and some write history. We'll write history! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u855	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u856	Mr President, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u857	Now that's not serious. You have the floor and you'll talk right after.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u858	I too, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u859	Mr. Kegeroglu also asks for the floor. So any reference to a name or a party poses a personal problem? There's no personal problem. You know that very well. It was a political criticism. He doesn't have any personal edges. You weren't threatened. Your name was mentioned, but it was a political criticism.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u860	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u861	No, no, it's not like that. It's a matter of parliamentary order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u862	Mr President, this is a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u863	What Regulation now? To do so, you have to file signatures and a lot of things. There was no violation. Please. The speaker of the New Democracy, Anna Michelle Asmakopoulou, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u864	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the first time left with a few right-wing government continues its work, namely, it continues to live its myth in Greece. Because that is what you are doing, ladies and gentlemen, you are living your myth. You live your myth because you continue to believe that for a year and a half everything has been going well in this country. You live your myth that you've managed in fiscal with an unprecedented tax storm and the real economy to be on its edge. You live the myth of proud negotiation when one Vatterlo succeeds the other. You live the myth of effectiveness in dealing with the refugee crisis with third-world images of shame, with health bomb centres and closed borders. You live the myth of the parallel program, which would relieve, supposedly, the weak when you have actually led them to absolute despair and dead end. You live the other myth entitled "The growth comes, the investments come" when we have capital controls and when the businesses put a padlock on one after the other. You live the myth "we don't cut wages and pensions", while you break down people's incomes with great insurance contributions, with indirect and direct taxes. You live the myth that you have achieved it both in the foreign policy and in the country's defence, when the country is more unreliable, more vulnerable and more isolated than ever. And your myth is not perfect because, according to your myth, everything goes well in all areas, in education, in health, in humanity, in safeguarding pluralism, in combating the client state, in combating tax evasion. You live a myth that red lines in the middle of the night disappear and a minister who has a word "contract". Perhaps some of you even the myth that hope comes when you brought the third memorial and despair. Or the myth "we finish with the old" when with what you do every day you have proven that you are the oldest one in mentality and practice. And with today's insurance, you also create new myths. The Prime Minister yesterday talked to us about old dignity. Congratulations, therefore, also for this myth that you have made, and he is dedicated to you. You live your myth in Greece. And I would generally have no objection to living this myth. The only problem is that you rule Greece, so the bill from this myth is paid by Greece, is paid by the Greeks. And by poor luck, apart from myths, there are actions and you know that by touching you are making the exact return from Midas. Midas what he was touching made it gold. You touch it, you destroy it, and unfortunately you touch everything. So you could, if necessary, leave something that you won't touch, even if there's nothing left standing in the country when you get up. And the myth you live has deep roots, it also has founded standards, such as that of Venezuela, when you said that Venezuela is a model that we need to follow, so that we can leave behind the capitalist model today in Europe. Mr. Tsipras said that on 12-6. Or Mr. Papadimoulis who said that Maduro's victory in Venezuela is a message of hope and change. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mrs Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] This is your myth, this is your vision, this is your program, there you want to go to Greece, make it Venezuela. So you could not, in the bill we are discussing today, not repeat your myths or create new myths. So today you can live the myth of Katrugalu that, that is, insurance is sustainable and social law. Mr. Katrugalos understands that, but we do not understand and do not understand above all the thousands of people who are protesting from all sectors of the Greek economy. Live the myth that by tax, you know, you protect the weak and it becomes redistribution of wealth, because you are actually redistributing poverty, you are poorer in the middle class. Live the myth that you have managed and did not apply the mail Hardouvelis, the 1 billion and the preventive support line and instead already apply 3 billion meters, you vote 5.4 billion and then, we are waiting for 3.6 billion preventive support measures, because no one anymore trusts you. And live your myth again, if you want, that you will have a victory. Because these preventive measures will not say a fourth Memorandum or preventive measures, you will call them an automatic cut. So someone could call you top fictionists. Sadly, though, you're just dangerous liars. So live, ladies and gentlemen, your myth in this bill and because it is solely your creation, vote by applauding it, because this is part of your myth and guide the Greek society and the economy even lower for its own good. But don't forget, please, that your myth lasts until Sunday night, because on Monday the reality will come and knock you at the door and destroy him. But if you want for the first time to get away from your destructive myths and perhaps offer the only positive service you can offer in that country, then vote against it. And yes, we're going to elections here and now, we're going to finish. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Don't complain, ladies and gentlemen, don't worry, I don't think you'll do it, because the real myth in which you live is that you and your ministers will always sit in these chairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u865	Thank you very much. Mr George Caisa, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor from Evros.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u866	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, these days what we have not heard. We're liars, we're destroyers, we're to blame for everything. Now we have heard and 'living a myth'. I've lived the insurance myth since 1972. So, I've got badges. For some people who say we care about our chairs, I say before we came here, we had another job for at least thirty-seven years with insurance. Personally, I had three years in a volunteer practice without imprints. So, what was the insurance? Because here we all risk believing that SYRIZA destroyed the insurance. The insurance policy since 1972 has been three hundred sixty-five five insurance funds, three hundred sixty-five presidents and three hundred sixty-five Vice-Presidents, three hundred sixty-five boards. We all understand what that means. Each fund with its own contributions and benefits. We don't have to say that all those funds were operating in clienteles. General request since 1974, in fact, was the integration of the funds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u867	In 1972 we had a junta, that's why.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u868	The fund reserves we know were in a special bank account and went at 1% or 2% interest rates. They were then played on the stock market and finally with the PSI disappeared. As a doctor of the ESS, I had to be insured in two funds, in public and in CSAY. I was in both subsidiary, the Equity Fund and the EIF. Why am I saying this? Because under the arrangements followed by five - six Ministers - I will say no names, so as not to ask for staff - those who were insured before 1983 had both pensions. Those who were after 1993 lost one fund and lived on one pension despite having paid both funds up to then. This has happened, not to another generation of insured persons as we are now accused of, but to the insured himself. There were, of course, eleven pension cuts and, one or two pensions understood, the cuts were over 40-50%. This could go on? Was there any prospect of that insurance? Of course, he did not have the future of such an insurance policy. Unfortunately, without reserves in the Funds, without the budget being able to cover deficits, we are obliged under these difficult circumstances to reform the insurance system. There is no other way or other solution to social security. We therefore propose, firstly, a uniform insurance system: public, private, all professionals. Single insurance contribution of 20% of the income of insured persons. National pension. Facilitating young scientists. Specific rules for farmers. We therefore call on all Members to participate in the definition of the basic principles of the insurance system. We can put in other authorities. We know he has flaws and shortcomings. But we will have the time and the will to fix it in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u869	Thank you, Mr. George Caisa. Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos has the floor from the PASOK - DIMAR. You have five minutes, Mr. Constantopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u870	Tolerant, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u871	With a minimum of thirty seconds, like the others.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u872	Just a minute, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we counted sixteen months of governance SYRIZA - ANEL, a government that, from the position of the opposition, was tearing up the memorials. However, he signed the third and goes for the fourth. So, two-two the result. We experienced a Prime Minister who was negotiating seventeen hours and ended up closing the banks, imposing the capital controls and leading to an improper referendum in the country. She forgot, of course, the Thessaloniki programme, which she gave to everyone everything. And of course, after the referendum, the "OTH" of the Greek people did it "NAH" on a night. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA was voted as a government, with the Thessaloniki programme, in fact, to tell everyone everything, all of them, but he forgot about it. So the Prime Minister said in this Chamber: "No pension reduction. Thirteenth pension in proud old age'. Today you are costing dignity and pride to 384 euros. ‘No auction. No house in the hands of a banker’. Now, everything in the foreign funds. ‘EUR 751 basic salary’. We're still waiting for him. The Prime Minister said: 'Finally in the party state'. And every bill brings arrangements that build SYRIZA's party army. You said 'No increase in VAT'. Today she goes to 24%. ‘Repeal of the ENPI’. Now, not a word. The strongest in the referendum, as I said, did it 'YES'. ‘Food reductions. Removal of trade tax. That's not about 12,000 euros. Red line duty free at EUR 9,100’. Today he went to 8,600 euros. No resignation. Lie in lie, demagogy and populism misled those who believed in the hope you promised. The hope you promised it was terror and, here, the results. For eight months the country has been living with artificial support for intensive. It is May and the evaluation is pending. He should have been here since last October. Now, are you extortioning an insurance policy within a weekend before the Eurogroup to satisfy who? The lenders. You're asking us to consent to charges that nullify the income of all Greeks. You're presenting yourself as saviors of the country. In fact, of course, you are punishers of labour, destroyers of the country's productive tissue. You're talking about growth, but you're punishing everyone who can bring it. Freelance professionals strike four whole months. Your proposals destroy small and medium-sized enterprises, engineers, lawyers, doctors. You lead them all to black labor. Today's the time has come for us to all be judged. It's time for the truth! It's time to get rid of you! You are bringing in the House an insurance reform with cuts of over 1.9 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, because the truth is in the figures, so let us see the following: Retired IKA in its sixty-fifths with Law 3863, the Loverdos Act, as you know, received a pension of EUR 716. This bill will receive 514 euros. The decrease is 28%. Second example: A worker with a 1,000 euros salary and forty years of insurance, with the Law of Loverdus, the PASOK Act, took 960 euros. This bill will receive 768 euros. The decrease is 25%. A worker with a salary of EUR 1,500 received a pension of EUR 1.102. The new bill will receive 956 euros. Of course, free professionals also have their honorary honor. Free professional with 15,000 euros income paid 3,450 euros contributions. Today he will pay 5,700 euros. The numbers speak for themselves and your conclusions. As for people with disabilities, you say that you are copying the PASOK Act, the Loverdus Act, Law No.3863/2010. There is no connection between these arrangements and the Law of Loverdus. This law excluded and gave 20% more. In your own arrangement you do not exclude persons even with heavy disabilities. So you're not good at copying. So don't talk about copying a PASOK law. You have disillusioned the people, and now you are horrificly destroying the country. You're messing with the new generation, which a new generation believed you and made the hope of the new generation terror, and that's what we're all going to pay for. You have the nerve to talk about systemic media, what for two days has been blacked out. You are protected by the time you bring this bill to debate and vote. Affliction and shame, that's what I feel! Ladies and gentlemen, a Chinese proverb says 'whoever lives from the sword dies from the sword'. And as the late Georgios Genematas said, in politics, you need to know what path you're going to take. So you don't have any road but you don't have a compass. Let the logic prevail and give a definitive solution to the chaos that we are experiencing from this House. The proposal by our President, Mr Fofis Genemas, is a one-way road: national cooperation, therefore, from this House, to make it possible to get the country out of the deadlock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u873	Thank you, Mr. Constantopoulos. We shall now proceed to the last speaker on Mr Adoni Georgiadis. Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u874	Last one? We'll talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u875	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleague, I am sure you will also speak later. Don't worry. I have no doubt. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you know this is a difficult speech today. It's true. You don't have what to start with. Mr Constantine gave me the honour of mentioning a statement from me in the 'PARAPOLITIC' - I had also made thousands of other means - of how bad the early elections are. Now, imagine now that we have started the statements. Mrs Cassimatis - she was here a while ago, but she left - unfortunately - on the channels she said she went from PASOK to SYRIZA because she couldn't stand to see the Hedge funds get people's loans. And now we read the letter from Mr Tsakalotou, who begged that we gave it all, we kept the first residence for a while. Nice statement, huh? She, Mr. Comrade, you didn't bring her. You forgot her. Would you like me to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, of your statements on the thirteenth pension? Now the good colleague is coming and says about the 300 funds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u876	Three hundred and sixty-five funds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u877	Show me once when SYRIZA as opposition passed a law to reduce the funds. Once! Never! Any government, whether it was in New Democracy or PASOK, brought law here to make the merging of funds, SYRIZA was all out with the protesters concerned so that the funds would not be merged. Now do you understand? And the most outrageous of all do you know what it is? That you, the SYRIZA colleagues, are coming here, and you're pretending there's nothing going on. I heard this morning from another colleague - I don't mention his name, because I hear that out of the air he doesn't want us to mention it, he can say it himself - he's back, he says, on holidays all northern Greece and he was sunned with flowers! His fellow citizens were deposing him because, he says, "Cut us more tax-free, get us a greater cut in pension, raise us some VAT!" That's what you say to each other! So I want to tell you, Minister, that I personally thank you. I'm telling you, honestly. I thank SYRIZA's colleagues in particular, and I will tell you why. I entered politics with my main aim of breaking the ideological hegemony of the Left. My main logic has always been that this country has arrived here, because people like you were viewed as some saints in Greek society. You were able to go to court as a lawyer and defend every poor and undignified trade unionist and go out to the channels, to Papadakis, Austro and others, and present himself with a halo that fights for the good and the unjust. Now that these good and wrongful lawyers, who had you, are coming to Parliament as Minister and suggesting that you return from what you signed up for them - I will testify, Mr Panayotopoulos has done so, I have taken him and the whole file to testify - the exact backwards, I want very much now in May in court - please, Mr President, do not employ the Minister, because I want to get an answer - to see what you will say when the Karugalos-signed parties are, and on the other hand, the judge will be judging with the Katrogalou law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u878	I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u879	But, I repeat, I would like to thank the SYRIZA colleagues in particular. Do you know why? You are my greatest allies to finally end the ideological hegemony of the Left in this country. Today with the humiliation you are giving to the Left - and I thank you for that - we will finally end with the ideological hegemony of the Left and when you will leave - and do not worry, Mr Constantinea, and do not close your neck - you will leave quickly. Do you know why? For two basic reasons. The first is because these measures are not the last. In one or two weeks, you'll get so many more in one or two weeks later. Also, I have to tell you...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u880	What do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u881	I want you to leave. I also have to say to you, in order not to make statements on the channels, 3.6 billion preventatively you will vote - and in particular it will be, I risk saying it - and I swear now that you are going to make the return. You will find a new tale that you are supposed to be able to vote on the preventive measures that you could not, as you can now vote on the lowest tax-free amount that you could not, as Mr Petropoulos - is not here now, unfortunately - has told us to Parliament that always as an ESA lawyer today, the ESA has made an announcement and is accusing him about as a liar, the ESA itself who had hired him as a lawyer. You're such liars! You're the kind of man you're thirsty for chairs! And in front of your chair - and don't move your head - you're not ashamed of anything! For absolutely nothing you're ashamed of!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u882	You're not ashamed!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u883	You were coming to this House and you were telling us 'the third pension' - it goes - 'unnecessarily twelve thousand' - that goes - 'against privatization'. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We have forgotten to comment, Minister, on the part of Mr Tsakalotou's letter to the Eurogroup, which says that for the Privatisation Fund we are giving all of you, Mr Xanthos, may also, of course, be present. You can imagine those who have been running against privatization all these years to sell everything as ministers now to keep your chair!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u884	Don't scratch!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u885	You, Mr. Polakis, don't talk too much. One of the days will come when a prosecutor will deal with this because we don't have intensive treatment units, and then somehow he will realize that, with your intervention, the illegal, the felony character...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u886	Because you sent the doctors away!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u887	Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u888	...stop nepotism, and we don't have intensive care units beds, and then your file will come to Parliament, and then I'll see what these little people will vote out of here. Because, Mr. Polakis, you know very well, you know that perfectly, Mr. Polakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u889	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u890	...you have committed a felony. And the time will come when you'll answer for this felony.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u891	Please complete your thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u892	They may pass now, but they won't pass for long. You can be sure...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u893	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u894	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u895	Be sure, Mr. Polakis. Don't fly, Mr. Xanthi! Don't fly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u896	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u897	He took the files into his office!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u898	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u899	A felony offense. You didn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u900	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u901	You didn't do it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u902	Finish, Mr. Georgiadis, please. Finish your thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u903	Well, let me close.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u904	I, the 'human' here, will denounce you who have shut down the units!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u905	Please, underneath! Please! Finish, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u906	Only you've left the lie! All your partners are liars!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u907	In one year in power you have been able to do worse than forty years in the Translocation. You'll stay a little longer...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u908	Papastaurou?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u909	I know that Mr. Papastaurou, Mr. Famele, you have him for all sorts of diseases and all the bullshit that Thucydides says.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u910	CARBON? Panama Papers?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u911	Watch out, though, these won't save you now that all our fellow citizens will start paying. Because no matter how nice you say it, everyone will now start paying and they will understand what "SYRIZA".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u912	Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u913	Let me close two more seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u914	What a pity to wish the country would go worse.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u915	No, Mr. Famelle, underneath, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u916	You did not answer the issue of villages with the two thousand people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u917	I've said it a thousand times, see Article 40(3).
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u918	You didn't answer. All right, well, if a payer pays a higher insurance contribution than he paid yesterday, you can come to your office and pay him. Because what you have responded is an escape. And I've watched it very well. You don't even explain to us what class the increase will be. Unless we find out at the end of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u919	Good, Mr. Georgiadis. Please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u920	I'll be right back. One final comment, because this is where you say that we are the people of the Troika and everything else. In this bill the troika made a shocking mistake. For its own political reasons, in order to keep Grexit or because someone from Europe wants to take Tsipras into the socialist group, the troika measures that we all know will bring enormous recession, enormous unemployment and enormous catastrophe to Greece have been accepted. There will be no single professional who will be able to make progress in this country after this bill. So all these people know that when Kyriakos Mitsotakis becomes Prime Minister, that we will change them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u921	Dismisses!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u922	Because without reduced taxes the country cannot go forward. I don't say easy things. There should be a reduction in State expenditure, for otherwise there can be no reduced taxes. But, if there are no reduced taxes, there will be no pretext in this place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u923	Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u924	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u925	Mr President, may I have the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u926	Yes, Mr. Polakis. Mr Katrugalos has already asked for the floor. Minister, we have been listening for a little while.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u927	Yeah, he's a little bit. You know, at the beginning of my speech I asked all Members of this House to talk seriously about a national issue, the insurance. Obviously, I knew who I was addressing and I didn't expect everyone to respond to it. I take the floor on staff, although I avoid doing so, following a well-known saying by Eisenhower that it is easy and anyone can fight with a pig in the mud. The problem is, he likes the pig. That is why we should not be lured from those flying mud and they like mud war. Parliament's work is a serious task. The Greek people have trusted us with the mandate, not to project ourselves, with the peculiarity that some of us have and have personal stumblings, but to be able to project our different ideological positions, as each of us perceived and thus represent our voters, those who trusted us. For the second time, however, the same issue was raised. To Mr Panagiotopoulos, I had intended to respond to the position tomorrow. What do they blame me for? That I had as a lawyer I was defending other than what I'm saying now. I remind you that last year they were saying exactly the opposite. I was accused, in relation to the re-appointment of the fired, that as Minister I supported what I said as a lawyer. In both cases, of course, what they should recognise me is the consequence of defending the weak. Because, unlike their allegations, what we are doing - SYRIZA, I am not personally legislating - for the one-off ones is precisely the opposite to the horizontal reductions in one-off and pensions in the past. Instead of having horizontal reductions, we therefore have general and uniform rules. Instead of reducing the one-off, as was the case in the past - and I had also been judicially against this decision as lawyers at the time - with one of the criteria for the number of applications submitted this year, we are applying a general and unequivocal calculation rule. So I'm returning the charge. I've never sought positions. I had the sterile and safe environment in Brussels for five years, if what I was interested in was my personal position. Because I am a man who defends my ideas, I also recognize that to Mr Georgiadis. However, unlike Mr Georgiadis, I prefer to treat my ideological opponents with ideological arguments, not with mud.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u928	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u929	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u930	Please, there's no way we're going to lead to this story. Only Mr. Paulakis has the floor and we close unless a personal matter arises. So far nothing has arisen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u931	Talk about mud.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u932	There's no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u933	Mr. Polakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u934	Listen, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u935	I listen very carefully.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u936	And I listen very carefully to you all the time. Live and you will live the myth of the left parentheses for a long time! Adapt to the reality of existent counterpopulation! We know that your removal from these government benches...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u937	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u938	We are all passing through, and what is left behind as a project and there we will be measured and there we will be judged, Mr Georgiadis. Because the forgived priest - George the Hiotakis who died two months ago in Sfakia, do you know what he was saying? Another value and another post! You guys got value from office. We value the office. Who made a felony? The one who kicked away in a week and a half from primary school to push people into private primary care, or the one that we from September to today with Andreas have put a thousand and twenty doctors in the system, so that we can save the destruction that you've done? Who made a felony? The one who in 2012 to 2014 as the political leader - and you were not the only ones - allowed CEDEFOP to waste EUR 3.5 million - black money! - advertising expenditure with direct assignments to a series of SMEs in the country? You were also a minister at that time - not only you and Mr. Loverdos were also Mr. Vorides - who gave this money to have persuasive instruments for defending the memoranda.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u939	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u940	The truth! I'm telling the truth, Mr. Loverdo!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u941	You won't put me in your mouth!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u942	Who made a felony? You or we made the felony that, for the first time, we had CCPD get people with the criteria of CCPD, in which you sworn you were, but were the assignments made with the pools you sent as MPs and ministers? That's what they were doing with the assignments, and we broke it up with them! And we're proud of ruining it. And we're gonna ruin it. And we changed it. And we'll change it. And we'll search the CDC from 2012 to 2014, because there's a loan there. And what happened to the loan? Was it really used for influenza or with the signature of Mr. Venizelos, Mr. Loverdos, 36-37 million have changed their character and been given for other needs of the ERIC? What were these needs? Those who today explain the unhealthyness of the media against the head of the Ministry of Health! So we state clearly that the procurement bill is being prepared. The black system, which you have built thirty years, Andreas and I, our Government will change it, whether you like it or not you like it! Yeah, we're running boards! Tell me one of the people we've appointed now that he's a party seat or he's not qualified to run or he's like the ones you've appointed, who you've given in alphabetical terms and you've chosen them. You're accusing us of being late! Yes, democracy has a cost. For what we have said, and the committee is operating and proposing two names, and we are choosing with the Minister, both of us. Tell me about one of the people we've put up with so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u943	Finish, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u944	Tell me about one of the new members we put on the CDC board if he has a flaw! And we said "very well, of course, to come and check it" and I expect some other evidence to be collected and I will come to answer the question - if you do not withdraw it - and we will see it all from the top to the bottom with names and addresses. Because now, with the change of administration, they also open their mouths. People who were soaked for years, terrified of this gang system you set up, now they'll talk. They will be released, and then we will see how much waste the sack puts, Mr Georgiadis. So remember that. Other value and other post.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u945	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u946	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u947	Two minutes, Mr. Georgiadis. I will obviously give you the floor only for the personal information. We're not having a whole conversation. Only for the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u948	For the staff. Minister, listen to me. For a man who two days before the referendum wrote the famous tweet that "yes are for chickens" and three days later you said such a great "yes" to become Minister, make us suggestions about office and value. Obviously, the relentless one you referred to, that I did not have the honour of knowing him, was not referring to you. Secondly, what do you mean 'now that decent people have entered the CEDEFOP on the Board of Directors'? I'm sorry, the previous Board of Directors which government had appointed it, you know? You! So, what did you just tell us? That the Board of Directors appointed by Mr Panagiotis Kourublis, the current Minister for the Interior, were fraudulents who entered into the crime of covering the CEDEFOP? Is that what you told us? Let's know. Mr. Kourublis, in other words, you told us, he was appointed to CEDEFOP fraudulents. If what you're saying is really levedika, and not as you usually say magika to say it and go and hide it after that, you have to ask Mr. Kurublli for an explanation. Because if Mr. Kurublis put people there scams, obviously that's something to do with your own government. Or not? Thirdly, you don't know what you're saying and it's good to go out and explain to you Mr. Katrugalos who, as Minister, may have screwed up, but as a lawyer, he's obviously a good one. Listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u949	You're causing more. I'll say more names.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u950	Say what you want. You got your office the medical records. The Minister has no right to do that. The Minister may request the SPS and order a check if he considers that an infringement has occurred. It may order a repetition of the tender. It can order cancellation of the contest and a new competition. What can't the Minister do? And I invoke Mr. Katrugalo who's ahead. Getting people's files in his office and starting to see them. Why can't he? Because this falls under the laws on sensitive personal data. You did not, in common, have the legal authority to do so. This is just Greek. It's in jail. Understand? Any of these doctors are suing you - and I imagine they'll all be doing you - or if they vote you here to go to a committee of inquiry, you'll go to jail. If they don't, we'll do it when we come, don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u951	You're going to be too late.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u952	And we'll do it, don't have any doubts. I'm telling you to live your freedom. Now listen to me knowing why you've made a felony felony of yours and you've admitted it and nobody's getting away with you, not even your wizards. You are used to it, Minister, by pride, that you keep twice as many books as you are, that you do not suffer from anything as mayor, who is proud to say that you keep twice as many books as you do, but that witch will be passed soon. Do you know why? Because even in Crete, even in Chania, you have taken the highest percentages of Greek and in the referendum and in the elections, so far the world will start to pay what you have voted on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u953	Good. Mr. Georgiadis, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u954	I'm hanging up. My law on primary school, although Minister, you haven't read it. Because, if you'd read him, you'd know that for all the doctors who left the system - the two and a half thousand - they could do on the spot - I didn't do why I left a minister - two and a half thousand recruitments. And inside what did the law say? Thousands of auxiliary and a thousand five hundred family doctors. They're the ones you haven't hired yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u955	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u956	You hired family doctors, and I didn't know? These recruitments are from my law, a law that you don't know why you're probably a complete illusion, because it's incomprehensible to be in the House and not know the law, although Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u957	Good, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u958	So, Mr. Polakis, to close, people die in intensive care units today why can't they find beds? The cost of the democracy you mentioned is that relatives and friends of beds are looking for their own man and not finding them, why did the contest be cancelled because you illegally? Do you sleep at night, Mr. Polakis, for those who die because they don't find a bed because of you? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u959	You're not ashamed to talk about death!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u960	Seven thousand suicides! Stop. Are you flying? Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u961	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u962	You're playing with death here in the House. Come on, shame now! There's a limit.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u963	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u964	Minister, just a minute, I'll give you the floor. But Mr. Loverdos precedes. He heard his name in a way he probably wants to answer. Mr. Loverdo, we're listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u965	Thank you, Mr President. It was no time for this conflict. We'll have other opportunities, especially when the Polakis file comes to the House from the prosecutor's office. That's where I'll see you. I recommend that you wash your mouth when you talk about me and when you report me. You!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u966	You guys, we're in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u967	Are you talking to me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u968	I've lived the last year of my first teenage years in the dictatorship. The EVOs like you lived on them. Now, in democracy, you don't get enough of it, no matter how much you say. Mr President, I suggest to my colleague who is now sitting in ministerial seats to think about what he is saying, to think about what he is doing, to think about who he is addressing and to watch out for what he is talking about. We have honoured the command of the Greek people several times. We are here, we have honored the Greek people who sent us, we have sweated as ministers, we have bleed, we have suffered the trumpets and we have our forehead clean. Half-speaking, empty words, dictionaries and freaks like them, we return them. You're either going to apologize or as far as I'm concerned...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u969	Of course not.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u970	Don't answer now, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u971	As far as I'm concerned, the EDPS in justice!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u972	Minister, you have the floor. Very soon not to open a new circle.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u973	I'm returning to you, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u974	Come on, get out of here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u975	And your hand to move it where it takes you. Not to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u976	We have democracy and we respect it... (It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u977	Of course we have a democracy. What I'm telling you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u978	You can't beat me!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u979	The UN has also denounced the spread of seropositives rather than me. That's why your hand is moving it somewhere else. And because...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u980	You're a liar and a slander.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u981	And you're a liar and a slander.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u982	Come on, man. Last time I've been addressing you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u983	Because you had this particular route, that's why the Greek people sent you to the place you are now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u984	We're here. Where will you be?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u985	And a word about this: Of course, as Minister, I have the right to control by a mechanism that...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u986	Minister, Mr. Catrugale...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u987	Here, here, you're addressing me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u988	Get the lawyer to get you out of jail.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u989	Leave the lawyer alone. Do you need a lawyer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u990	Don't hold a dialogue, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u991	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u992	In your opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u993	Mr. Georgiadis, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u994	Of course, as political leader and legality...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u995	Let Mr. Blondie tell us. Did you see them, Mr. Xanthi? He won't talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u996	Mr. Georgiadis, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u997	Of course I had the right to see if they applied what I told them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u998	If you had the right to tell us. And if he saw them, now he won't say. Is he supposed to go in too?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u999	Mr. Georgiadis, please! Mr. Polakis, Minister, please conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1000	You're sharing prisons? What are you? Any majors? You're sharing prisons?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1001	I don't share. You're going to jail! You! That's where you deserve it. For the brats you're selling!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1002	Have a seat, Mr. Georgiadis. Mr. Georgiadis, you're offended.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1003	Listen, Georgiades. Well, listen, I repeat it and it will be heard as much as it does not like: I certainly asked to see the list of particles.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1004	The directory? The files.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1005	Wait. I'm not hiding anything. Don't worry. I asked for the list of molecules. And it seemed quite clearly that they did not apply the criteria of the AACC.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1006	And what did you do next?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1007	So we asked for the files, let's see.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1008	Wrong! You have no right to ask for files.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1009	In your opinion, it's wrong. No, I'll leave...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1010	You could have arranged to cancel your contest. What don't you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1011	Uh, no, I'm gonna leave the para-state mechanism you set up to appoint in the same way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1012	Please close, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1013	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1014	Wait a minute. This has to be heard. Of course we wouldn't leave the para-state mechanism that they had set in there twenty years to appoint in the way...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1015	Curublis? Curublis?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1016	Oh, no. The board of directors...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1017	Kurublis was the council.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1018	Let go of Kurubli.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1019	Kurubish was there! Did I appoint it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1020	Let go of Curumbly and stop. Don't talk about the other guys!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1021	Did I put Mr. Giannopoulos in? Did I put him? You put him in!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1022	I know. I know that very well. We got him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1023	Yeah, but I have to...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1024	Is Mr. Giannopoulos a para-state mechanism?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1025	Mr. Georgiadis, please. Minister, please finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1026	A para-state mechanism is one thing that exists there since 1994. He has served your own mechanism and mechanism of PASOK, which ruled those years. As you know, if you've read at all, there's the separatism of the mechanisms. And there is a need for some administrative boards to respond to the political plan taken by the political leadership. So you tell them to apply a decision of the Ice Bay, which refers to some people for felony and do not apply it, for a number of reasons. They may have been scared. Maybe they appreciated it differently. We're gonna collide with that thing. Take the hammer. Whether they like it or they don't like it, we're gonna crash and change it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1027	Good, Minister. Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1028	And it's true that we wouldn't let eighty-eight mistakes in the two hundred-five candidates. That's what we did. And that's not what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1029	Did you find the mistakes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1030	Yeah, we found them, D.C.S.'s service.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1031	You're telling me, I don't... (It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1032	And when they sat down again and saw it, the resulting table was 100% the one - yes! - We've corrected. And don't have such delusions. The contest won't be cancelled.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1033	Please finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1034	I have worked 12 years in intensive care units and I have real sensitivity for the units and not fake and clientele that you have. I know that very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1035	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1036	We'll create a hundred and twenty intensive beds, not sixty.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1037	When?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1038	Very soon, Mr. Georgiadis. In about twenty or twenty-five days, they'll open. We'll be right here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1039	In twenty-five days! You answered. I'll take it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1040	Minister, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1041	But we'll meet again...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1042	Will you quit if the beds aren't in twenty-five days?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1043	Minister, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1044	Am I going to resign? If we have appointed them...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1045	Mr. Georgiadis, what do we do now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1046	If beds are not in twenty-five days, will you resign from Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1047	Are you going to resign from a congressman?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1048	Now, Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1049	No, now I'm in control. You'll quit if it doesn't happen? Now I'm checking on you! You're on it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1050	Well done. We're gonna open them up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1051	In twenty-five days here for the ITHs!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1052	The debate is over!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1053	Will you resign from a Member?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1054	I'll be here in twenty-five days and ask a question about the ICUs. But don't avoid questions. Don't hide!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1055	Where are you hiding?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1056	The debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-07-S1-commons.u1057	With the consent of the House at 0.06' the sitting is closed for Sunday, May 8, 2016 at 10.00, on the subject of the House's work: continuing to discuss and vote for the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, "The Single Social Security System - Reform of an insurance - pension scheme - Regulations on income tax and on gambling and other provisions".
