ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Finance Mr. George Huliarakis will deposit the State Budget for 2017. The Deputy Minister of Finance, George Juliarakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the particular honour of presenting to the House the state budget for the financial year 2017 and the budgets for certain special funds and services for the financial year 2017. Mr President, I would ask you to set dates for the debate in the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs and in the House. I also present the volume of tax expenditure and the reports by the Directors-General for Taxation and Customs Control and Excise Duties, Administration and Financial Control of the Ministry of Finance and the declarations provided for in Article 8 of Law 2362/1995, as applicable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, let me inform you that the debate on the state budget in the relevant Standing Committee on Economic Affairs will begin on Thursday 24 November 2016 for four meetings, after consulting the Bureau of the Commission. The debate in Parliament's plenary will begin on Tuesday, December 6, 2016, in accordance with Rule 123(1) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure and will end on Saturday, December 10, 2016, by holding the roll-call vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u4	Good evening. To begin with, I would like to say a few words about the late President of the Republic of Kostis Stefanopoulou, believing that I express the common emotion of all of us for the loss of the former President of the Hellenic Republic. On behalf of the Bureau of Parliament, I would like to record my respect and love for this Greek vulnerability who served exemplarily for public life, who honoured the office of President of the Republic with courage and courage, focusing on all the feelings of the Greek people. His morality, simplicity and dignity were those qualities that made him beloved and respected to all. His memory is eternity. Warm condolences to his family. I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, before we enter the debate on the topical and urgent questions, I would like to make a few announcements to this House. The President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis states that according to Rule 17 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, Parliamentary Representatives of the New Democracy (in turn) are nominated by the MPs Nikolaos - George Dendias (Bth Athens), Konstantinos Javaras (N. Ilias) and Yiannis Kefaloyannis (N. Rethymno)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u6	Also, MEPs from Thessaloniki, Mrs Catherine Markou, by letter, informs her that she is no longer part of the Potami Parliamentary Group and remains an independent MEP.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u7	In addition, the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance ‘Harmonisation of legislation by Directive 2014/17/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 February 2014 on credit agreements for consumers for residential immovable property and amending Directive 2008/48/EC and other provisions of the Ministry of Finance’. In addition, the Ministers for Administrative Reconstruction, Home Affairs, Economy and Development, Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Foreign, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic, Health, and State, as well as the Deputy Minister of National Defence, submitted a draft law on 18-11-20016: ‘The Single System of Mobility in Public Administration and Local Government, the obligations of persons appointed in the positions of Articles 6 and 8 of Law No.4369/2016, incompatibility and prevention of conflicts of interest and other provisions’. The above draft law has been classified by the Government as urgent. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Also, New Democracy MP Constantine Javarra calls for his absence from the proceedings of the Parliament from December 5, 2016 to December 9, 2016 due to his transition abroad and especially to England. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u8	The House therefore approved the requested permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Today, nine topical questions will be discussed. The General Secretariat of the Government has sent a statement in this regard. The reasons why the other topical questions will not be discussed are unsuccessful obligations, in the absence of abroad, a workload and we ask for your understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u10	Madam President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u11	What do you want, Mr. Constantinople?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u12	Because Mr Tsakalotos, if we ask a question, he comes after three months, I learned today - and I would like to see this if that is the case - that he will come on Thursday to answer all our questions. Is that true? And I am very pleased that you are in the Bureau, because you are not just a Vice-President of the House, but you are all fifty-three and I understand that you will facilitate our work.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u13	I do not understand what you want them to be!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u14	That's for the best. I didn't say it was bad.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u15	Good to who? Who's this about? In any case, he will come to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u17	You're welcome. In today's debate, the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr Evangelos Apostolos will answer first. So we move on to the fourth with number 220/15-11-2016 timely question by the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the recovery of the associated aid to radical producers in the region in Antheli of the Prefecture of Fthiotis. Mr. Moraite, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, there is concern and indignation in Anthyi rice producers in Fthiotida, because under the new regulation on the common agricultural policy rice growers receive the connection of the product according to the distribution made by the Ministry of Rural Development and Food and on the basis of the cultivated product report. For the period 2015-2016, part of the root producers of Anthyli did not receive the associated aid, not on its own responsibility. For these producers - and for others I will say in my dilemma that exists throughout the country - there has been a problem, because some traders have lately presented the market tariffs and when the Ministry's computer system has been closed, so they do not seem to be beneficiaries of the related aid. Minister, we call for this injustice to be lifted to the detriment of these producers and for these producers, with your own intervention, to be included in the linked aid scheme, because it is indeed a matter of survival for them. If this cannot be done, Minister, we ask in the new growing season of 2016-2017, exceptionally, for these producers to enter for the period 2015-2016. Also, Minister, these producers - you know very well - are facing another serious problem. As if it were not enough to lose the associated aid, they have an additional problem with regard to the burning of rice squid, to continue the production process for next year. This is because this area is part of the NATURA programme and the burning of squid is prohibited. We are also asking for a solution to this issue. We will say that there is really a way to solve this problem. We ask, Minister, that you give specific answers today to these producers who are facing this serious problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u19	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u20	Mr Colleague, as you rightly said, the related aid comes from Community funds and its distribution is governed by specific Community regulations. Beneficiaries of the linked rice aid for 2015 shall be farmers cultivating rice on eligible areas provided that they deliver a certain quantity of rice to purchasers of cereals, mills and cooperatives of farmers no later than 28-2-2016. That's what this decision was saying. In exceptional cases, however, as defined by national and Community provisions, the date of implementation of this allocation may be altered. This was given that in 2015 we had extensive flooding - last year - in many areas, which caused the length of the growing season to be extended and had an effect on the marketing season. Secondly, a decrease in delivery, management and marketing operators of the product concerned was observed due to an economic crisis. The possibility was to extend until 28-3-2016. What, finally, happened across the territory in the distribution of related rice aid for 2015? They applied for six thousand three hundred sixty - five farmers, four thousand eight hundred sixty - eight, delivered a quantity of product. The minimum delivery, i.e. four hundred pounds per acre, met four thousand four hundred and three farmers. In the light of this, therefore, of the number of farmers who were beneficiaries of the aid on the basis of the dates and conditions and, of course, of the effort to absorb all the amount corresponding to the national rice aid ceilings, which amounted to 8 million, the allocation was made to deplete all the sums, so that amounts - as you all can see - are not lost - relating to the related aid. We know that there were farmers who were not registered by horizontal bodies, traders, for their traditions. However, there is no longer any possibility of covering them from Community funds, nor of course from state resources, given the budgetary discipline that our country is currently pursuing. However, I would like to point out that there have been specific producers from the wider region who have received aid in particular for the Fthiotida Regional Unity. One hundred and twenty-three beneficiaries from the region got 152,000 euros. For 2016, I will tell you in my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u21	Mr Mauritius, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u22	Mr Minister, the problem, however, is not what you said, namely that they did not catch the plaque of the current kilograms per acre. The problem is that a particular trader did not indicate the quantities delivered by these producers. That's why we say it's not their responsibility and it's huge injustice. Besides, Minister, this is not just the case in Anthyli. It's happening all over the country. There are dozens of producers in Iato-Carnania, Thessaloniki, Serres, Kavala, who have exactly the same problem, that is, they did not receive a related subsidy. Exactly, therefore, because some industries or traders did not register in time to become a concentration agent, this led to these huge problems being presented. And they say - we do not believe that it is true - that there was no communication and that it had not been updated. But the result is one. The damage has been done by these producers. Now, Minister, we say that this injustice must be lifted. In our opinion, there is no point in all that you said, that these growers did not catch the plaque. This trader simply - I do not know why - did not declare this production. I mentioned, Minister, a major problem, which I mentioned in person, in Kammena Vourla, where you participated in the meeting of the local Association of Municipalities and Communities. It's the burning of the squid. It is a very serious problem in this sense: you know that this squid must not be incorporated, because it will be difficult to cultivate next year. There is a regulation here, and there is a ministerial decision, that I shall be tabling in the Minutes, which says clearly in Article 4(4), that there may exceptionally be the burning of squid in exceptional cases for the NATURA regions, where there will be the agreement and authorization of the Directorate for Agricultural and Veterinary Development and the Forestry and Fire Service in the region. So for the second request from the producers, which you did not reply to when they met you, we want a concrete answer. Minister, you will allow me, however, to address a very serious problem - and I will ask for your tolerance, Madam President - which is not, of course, related to the question. I am transferring you the anger and anger of thousands of poor farmers you have cut, Minister, the compensation. As a Communist Party of Greece we told you when it was the meeting with the Commissioner of the European Union and we were being sedated. You told us that there was no such matter. We told you that compensation will be cut off, because you will be sharing a little more money in three-fold producers. Look, Minister, compensation is specifically paid to mountain, mountainous areas and aims to equilibrium the income, this disadvantage which is compared to other farmers throughout the country. There have been cuts, Mr Apostleou, from 30% to 70% in the money they received last year. You know, this money was necessary for this world to supply feed. And we are talking about mountain areas where your policy, along with the European Union's policy, leads them to a violent breakthrough. The problem is very serious. Of course, we do not think that these compensation would solve the problem. It was, however, a breath for these producers. Along with the coupled aid to sheep and goat meat, which you put and then the cap - we had asked you a topical question then - the hundred and twenty kilograms, together with the prices on lambs, which are currently plucking, you are driving this world into the violent breakout and you are giving them the graceful shot at extensible livestock. Of course, you have a clear objective, and you and the European Union also have a concentration of livestock production in a few hands, in stable facilities, in business facilities. We are clearly saying that this injustice must be lifted in this world, otherwise our opinion is that the nest-sized farmers in these regions have a road forward: the way to fight to overthrow this policy that unravels them. Minister, answer the question of balancing, because you will find it in front of you. They are preparing for mobilisation, and they are perfectly right, because they are currently in a violent dislocation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u23	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u24	Mr Colleague, you are turning the parliamentary question into a question. I have no problem, if the Bureau will allow me to speak as much time as you like. But we must make one thing clear: it is Community resources. You say that more is needed in rural areas. We don't disagree. However, the point is that we have specific Community resources that we manage. So, as far as these funds are concerned, through and through the linked aid procedure, which is a process that, at least for our part, we accept it, because it enables us to support specific policies by giving specific resources, such as related aid, the amounts are specific and these must be absorbed. So, in terms of both quantity and time, you realise that all this must be completed. And our aim is not to lose a single euro, as has happened in this case. And, of course, don't tell me that they didn't know any farmers, the producers, the rice producers, because I mentioned examples from this regional unit. I am not saying, of course, that they are not drowned by their right. However, there are conditions which we cannot overcome, because if we go beyond them, the controls begin and we go into other procedures that we scared in 2015 and 2016, that is to say, to avoid, fines and charges. I shall now refer to the part you have raised, which concerns the burning of squid. Let me tell you that it is not a simple process. It has its dangers and as you can see, we cannot every time transfer dates and wait, it is the weather that allows us, it is not them. There is a certain, specific date, which we must all observe in order to avoid the worst. I can't tell you anything else. Now, as far as compensation is concerned, it is a matter that has indeed caused reactions. But I have to repeat one thing. The amount is specific. There is no way one euro will be lost. He's going to the farmers, he's going to the farmers, he's going to the residents of areas he needs. From there on, it is an issue that we are trying, as far as possible, through a review process, mainly to target who we want to support. Because you must know that especially with the associated aid, the year we come, we have increases up to the level of doubling of the associated aid, particularly for sheep and goats, for livestock. We have linked feed reinforcements. You realise that intervention is needed, especially in the case of feed costs, which for our livestock farming is one of the most basic problems and issues to be solved. So be sure that we manage these resources as far as possible in the direction of the policies that we want to serve. And these are no more than the support of social cohesion in rural areas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u25	The same players in the next question. We will discuss the seventh under number 164/1-11-2016 topical question of the second question by the Member of Parliament, Etolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Ministers for Home Affairs and Rural Development and Food, on the problem of heavy rainfall in the Prefecture of Itonokarania. Mr. Moraite, you have the floor for two minutes. The time will be fully respected.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u26	Minister, you have not responded to the compensation. The livestock farmers don't get them. Farmers from 7,000 take 2,500 euros and from 4,000 to 1,200 euros. The farmers have heard you. Now as far as the floods in Itolokarna are concerned: although it has been a month since the heavy rainfall that hit the Prefecture of Itolokarnania and especially the wider Mesologi and Nafpaktos, nothing has happened. You, Minister, after two days you went to the area, and there you told them that everything was going well, that there would be compensation immediately. And although it spent a month, as I told you - because the floods took place on 21 and 22 October - nothing happened at all. They were photographed by some workshops at first, made some recordings, but in fact nothing happened. And Mr Skourletis - who was asking him the question - replied on Friday to another Member of the prefecture that there is a covetous amount of money going to the wounded in the Prefecture of Etolokarania and particularly in the Messolonghi. He didn't go a single euro, Mr. Apostleu. And answer that we're lying. Only 70,000 went to the Municipality of Messology, although the damage is huge, the disasters are huge, both in agricultural production and as far as construction, professional roofs are concerned, etc. They started, cowardly, some damage records. Especially in ELGA, they go with turtle rhythm. And how can they respond when there are only five ELGA officials in the county? Because, as you know, Minister, permanent workers in ELGA are at work because of a reduction in offshore traffic. So the recordings are not going to proceed. The big problem also exists in the professional roof, but also in other disasters that have taken place and have not taken up a euro. And he celebrated - we'll also see you in dentistry - and the local SYRIZA that you were suspending - says - payments to public and municipal debts. You did it elsewhere. You did it in the Peloponnese, you did it to you in the earthquake of Lefkada, and now you ask them together. This world is in impoverishment right now, and you're asking him for that money. Minister, because you have visited the region personally, we are asking for specific answers, because we know that ELGA does not cover and I will say which diseases it does not cover. You will take them to the PSEA, which is the "Monday presence", which is a time-consuming process, which we have had cases in other counties in the country that have been waiting for three and four years. We want, Minister, a concrete response to the people affected by the Eotolocarnania Prefecture.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u27	Minister, you have the floor. Please in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u28	Mr Colleague, as you said, a few days after these catastrophic floods, I visited the region, all the regions affected. We met with institutions, with the district manager, with the mayors, and, in fact, we tried with contact, to give them the confidence that we are close to them, as much as the financial resources allow us and, of course, with full coverage - I would say - of these losses covered by the ELGA, to meet their needs as quickly as possible. There is indeed one problem - you mentioned it - which concerns valuers who are absent from their work. For our part - and we stress this - we are making a great effort to speed up the procedures for assessing these damages. Of course I cannot commit to the immediate resolution of the problem of the kilometre compensation of the assessors. I stress once again the law of their request. But farmers will be compensated. In addition to the existing witnesses, we will use production data in the past years, which means that we will not lose one euro, the farmer who is entitled, respectively, to his insurance in the ELGA. The necessary labels have been made by the ELGA services, the announcements have been made and some seven hundred declarations have been made. Of course, the work of assessments is under way, as I have said, with its well-known problems. We had damage in livestock. In sheep we also had a declaration in bee-keeping four statements, where the work of the assessors has been completed. From these estimates and conclusions, which we through the approach procedure - which I told you before - we will make, we will compensate farmers through the cover that exists from this insurance. But, as you know, there have been damage to the network and to stored products whose records have been completed. For damages not covered by the ELGA premium, a file will be created and will be included in the known R&D&I funds, State aid. Of course, after the relevant dossier has been submitted to the European Commission to be approved, after the State budget, by expenditure, that is to say, which will be approved by the General Accounting Office, they will be paid respectively. Because there was indeed a delay in this process, due to double controls, there is already no need for double controls. What we can do as long as the time is right is to shorten the time of payment of these MCAs. Just to tell you that for the first quarter of 2016, we will pay the end of 2016, when the payments were made over a period of one to two years. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] As regards what you said, which relates to the competences of other ministries, I have to tell you that the leaders of the region know about it. The areas concerned have been declared in an emergency and all the procedures provided for following the declaration of the areas concerned in an emergency, of course they will be implemented. It is enough for the local authorities and farmers themselves to initiate the relevant procedures. For the rest, I shall refer to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Nikolaos Moraitis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u30	Minister, after your reply, the people affected in the region must be more concerned. We believe that this concern will be turned into rage, because you have not in fact responded. I said, of course, that the question was also addressed to the Ministry of the Interior, because we have huge damage. We must point out here, Minister, that the total lack of anti-military protection and armour measures in the city of Messology is a huge responsibility for the government. Of course you know the story well and you and the previous ones do. He said Mr. Skourletis about extreme weather events. No, Minister, your anti-Flemish policy, which leaves this world unprotected, unprotected, because we have flooded both in the Peloponnese and elsewhere. In particular there was the great damage, Mr Apostolos, and you know it, because there are pumping stations - which absorb water and go to pipelines - which went out because the lightning fell and none of these pumping stations exist and you know, one of them helps the Messologists with salt, where it has a large majority of the shares in the Greek public and private. You're the ones who move them to the municipalities. Not only do you give them no money, but you also wear raisins to the public for the operation of these pumping stations. Minister, we have known that such measures and projects are ineligible for both national and Community programmes, because they do not leave money to the major manufacturers. That is why there are no projects to protect. The damage - we must stress - in other regions and the Messology region is done in poor neighbourhoods, because there is indeed a total lack of such measures there. Of course, the Municipality of Messologist also filed press reports to the company of Ionian Road, because part of the floods took place because of the works that are being done there, where the area is not protected. Of course, you give money in this direction and the only works they do well are tolls that set them up fine to tear the world apart. Because, as we have said to you in another question, the same thing happened on Gargalia - Romanos street, and the same happened on Tripolis - Kalamata road, where the whole area was flooded. It is therefore clear that this policy is not aimed at protecting the world, but rather is causing problems. Minister, you have to answer - the government is united - rather than throwing the ball at each other. Here - you mentioned it yourself - there are eight hundred applications in agricultural production. It's about sixty applications for professional housing, where we have a complete disaster, we have - I don't remember the exact number - about a hundred fifty applications for homes. The area was declared in emergencies, but no one took money to this day. We, of course, think that there will be no such measures. By addressing the affected, we say that they should take the case into their hands, claim solutions that meet the real needs, the floods that have been suffered, because, indeed, this world is in despair. I am closing with this, Minister: do not tell us again about a six-month suspension. That's a mess. I told you that, as in other areas, today these debts are being raised. What do we ask of our timely question? We are asking for interest to be deducted, we ask not to pay municipal fees this year, not to pay HISPIA. We're not asking for parole. We ask for dismantling for as long as the wounds are healed in this world.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u31	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u32	Mr Colleague, there are specific procedures. The areas are declared in an emergency situation, which means that payments to the public, to the DUs, to insurance institutions, enter into a process of their transfer - regulation after six months. If six months pass, and indeed the consequences continue, there will of course be a corresponding extension of that deadline. But I cannot tell you any more things, particularly those that do not relate to what we really do discuss. We are discussing today what will happen with the payments of those who are insured in the ELGA, what will be done with the payments, which are not covered by the corresponding premium, and I told you that these are the procedures. The fact that there are many problems in the space, of course we know and of course we are trying. In particular, the part concerning damage caused by natural fire phenomena, floods, etc. is a huge issue that we need to redirect, because we do not have the corresponding coverage in terms of ELGA premiums. However, ELGA is a rewarding agency, which is certainly paying for certain damages and connecting them to a specific premium. There are damages caused, for example, by climate change. It is a matter which is currently particularly concerned with the European Union, to see how it is through a process - today, tomorrow - we will also be able to put these damages, which will be supported by specific Community funds. These are issues, however, which we cannot do on our own without a decision. I am telling you another issue which concerns us very much at the moment. We have a lot of fire damage and rural activity. Of course we must all understand that we are talking about a rural ecosystem which is damaged. It is not only the forest damage, it is, unfortunately, the damage to agricultural production that is too great. There is no fire incident that has no impact on the rural area. These are issues that absolutely need to be looked at. But if you are aware of this, we are linking them to a reward for the ELGA insurance premium, then we are in another situation which means an increase in premiums, which the rural area cannot withstand. So we are trying through the state aid procedure - as I said before - to see how we can make an area that really has a problem, to support it as much as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u33	The next question is again to the Minister for Rural Development. The eleventh question will be discussed under number 199/14-11-2016 of the Second Cyclades MP of the Radical Left Coalition to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the need for specific measures for coastal fisheries. Mr. Symblene has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I am presenting a topical question today with regard to the fisheries sector, particularly in relation to the coastal fishing sector, because the vast majority of fishermen in our country, around 85%, consists of small-scale coastal fishermen. Unfortunately, because of the policies pursued over the last decades and the absence of an integrated and modern national fisheries policy and because of the overfishing that has occurred in recent years, we have a mismanagement of fish stocks, we have an increasing cost of production, a fall in prices, and many daily losses suffered by fishermen from protected species. All these causes create a suffocating situation for coastal fishermen, who are gradually led to shrinking and extinction. With this situation in the area of island Greece and the coastlines where too many people live from this profession, we ask the Minister and the Ministry. Is the Ministry considering radical measures to address these problems, firstly, by increasing fish stocks through the creation of marine protected areas and, secondly, by providing compensation for damages from protected species by making use of existing studies such as the MOFI Programme, as well as the possibilities offered by the new European Maritime Fisheries Fund, for example, in Cyprus? Second question: Does the Ministry intend to go ahead with legislation which enables fishermen to organise themselves at all levels, namely at secondary level, by recognising them as a separate and specific sector of the primary sector and thus enabling them to participate actively in national fisheries policy? Because, as you know, fishermen cannot set up an organisation at secondary level today. They must join the farmers together, together with the other farmers in a secondary body, and that denies them the possibility of directly claiming their own problems which, in fact, are separate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u35	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u36	My dear colleague, thank you for the question you ask me, because you give me the trigger to speak about Greek fishing. Madam President, I ask for some tolerance in time. It is a sector that is the backbone of island Greece, a pillar of development of island and coastal areas and a link between the social structure of our islands. I can assure you that we are doing a coordinated effort at this time to support the industry. In fact, the rational management of fish stocks and the protection of aquatic resources from overfishing are an end in the fisheries sector at the Ministry. With regard to the anachronistic context you mentioned, I would like to inform you that many of the Royal and Legislative Decrees governing fishing have been amended, modernised or repealed. For example, the Ministry is currently working on a presidential decree, which will abolish all known to everyone in the fisheries sector, Royal Decree 666/1966. At both national and Union level, the fisheries sector is governed by a series of regulatory, management and structural measures aimed at making fisheries in our country sustainable, sustainable, respecting the environment and ensuring the profession of all fishermen. In accordance with the relevant Regulation on fisheries in the Mediterranean, its conduct with towed fishing gear is subject to the implementation of management plans approved by the European Commission. In the context of compliance with this obligation, the following management plans have been established and implemented: first, a management plan for small pelagic anchovy and sardine species, carried out by the known purse seine fishing gear. Secondly, a management plan for fishing with bottom trawler trawler gear - it is well known for trawlers - in accordance with the royal decree that I mentioned to you. Thirdly, at the same time, our Ministry has submitted a management plan for fishing with the Vinzotrata fishing gear, which, of course, defends fish stocks and sustainability and will solve a major problem which concerns hundreds of coastal fishermen, who have been suffering since 2010, because such a management plan has so far not been submitted for approval. At the same time, of course, at national level and in the direction of sustainable management, three areas of fisheries have been established as national protected areas with a total area of twenty-five thousand hectares, where artificial reefs have been stricken and there is a total ban on fishing, while there is a three-year scientific monitoring by INALE, the well-known ELGO - Dimitra Fisheries Research Institute. In addition to this, two new artificial reefs are under way from the region of Central Macedonia, which will, of course, be completed in the next programming period. We have also established three national sea parks in Sporades, Zakynthos and Messolonghi, and there are hundreds of local bans in place, which support the sustainable management of existing fish stocks. I would remind you that for the trawler's fishing gear, there are three hundred and twenty-eight local and time bans. Compensation and organization of the fishermen I will tell in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u37	Thank you. Mr. Armalene has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u38	First of all, I am pleased that the Minister mentions important things both in modernising the institutional framework and in the beginning of the establishment of marine protected areas - and specifically mentioned the Sporades, Zakynthos and Messolong. There is, of course, also the southern Aegean, in which the Cyclades and Dodecanese belong, where there - as I know from the time I was a prefecture adviser - there are specific studies of the University of the Aegean and of the University of Piraeus for the creation of marine protected areas in the wider area of Andros, Tinos and Gyros, as well as in the area south of Naxos, as in the area of Milos, with regard to the Cyclades. In these areas, there was agreement between the fishermen and the mayors at that time. Unfortunately, these did not go ahead for a number of reasons. I don't know what that is. But it is clear that these marine protected areas must also be extended to the rest of Greece, of course having the agreement of the operators and especially those who live by the sea, namely fishermen. About the management plans, it's obviously the way you said it, about the anchovy, the sardines, about the trawlers, vegetarians, etc. But here we have to see that, badly lying, the people who deal with this type of fishing are a small minority in relation to the whole of the country's fishermen. If I am not mistaken, the fishermen in the country are about fifteen thousand, 85% of whom are coastal fishermen. We must protect these, above all, without undermining the other categories. We must protect them, above all, because they are the major volumes. They are the ones who live from this profession, that is, they are primarily fishermen and nothing else. Right now these people are actually compressing from all these causes. Of course, the main cause is the reduction of fish stocks, which unfortunately has also been reduced by the tools used by certain other categories of fishermen, and that is why there cannot be good cooperation between them. To conclude, I would like to say that you should see with open mind and open heart the issue of the creation of secondary fishermen's organisations. There can't be a fisherman assimilated to the farmer. Of course, it is primary production and, of course, primary production is what we want, that is, the main lever of the country's productive development. There is enormous room for the country to develop primary production. But fishermen are a very special category, which must be recognised as such and in that sense the institutional framework that the Ministry will build - and we hope it will quickly - help these people organise. You know very well that they have come to your office from all over Greece, fishermen, who cannot agree with each other, from Evros to Crete. This is the result of the lack of a secondary federation that could include all this space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u39	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u40	Mr Colleague, on the issue of the organisation of fishermen there is the basic framework of L.4384/2016, which concerns cooperatives, producer groups, producer organisations. There is one particular feature, however, in terms of covering operating costs and, in particular, through resources from the European Commission and the Rural Development Programme, which we can have for these organisations up to EUR 100,000 for five years, which will cover all operating costs and, above all, will make it more beneficial for these producer groups. It is an issue which the fishermen themselves must pursue. From there on, there is the possibility of Law 1650/1986, which can be organized by these people and, above all, it is a matter of their own, how they can gather around the industry they serve. You have referred to coastal fishing. Indeed, despite the efforts I have made to meet and have an overall approach, we are starting'shore fishing, the average fishing, the trawlers' and we have not achieved them. It's a big problem. We are already preparing legislation at this time, as far as the fishing area is concerned. Tomorrow we'll have meetings, separate meetings, and that's a problem. We have dealt with, you know, and our country is facing the great question of the functioning of amateurism. We will reintroduce our intention of entering a class to amateur fishermen, because at this time of financial and economic crisis, too many people, especially in small islands, are engaged in recreational fishing. You realize that it is difficult for us to say that no one is going to take off their piece of money, but at the same time some class has to go into this particular matter. There are issues, therefore, which are open, as openly the issue you mentioned in your question, which is particularly about the compensation actually being paid to the fisheries sector. However, these should happen through an insurance procedure through ELGA, which is a fund covering the entire rural area, to see how we can cover these damages as well. However, I would like to stress once again that because the fisheries sector was a sector that was walking from Ministry to Ministry, at this point in the Ministry of Rural Development we are making a great effort to integrate it into the primary sector of our country and, of course, the PCA in the next period which is very important both in terms of amount, but also in terms of activities that we want for the fishing area, we believe it will find better days ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u41	We move on to the debate of the twelfth under number 202/14-11-2016 topical question from the F Vice President of the Parliament and Members of the Representation of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the disasters in agricultural production from rainfall - hails - flooding - floods in the Law of Trikala. The Minister for Rural Development and Food will answer again, Mr Evangelos Apostolos. F Vice-President of Parliament, George Lambroulis, has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Madam President. The intense and constant rainfall in Trikala Prefecture, as well as the flooding, following these severe weather phenomena which prevailed both at the beginning of the growing season - in spring - and then in the process of harvesting production and especially in September and October, resulted not only in the reduction of production but also in the deterioration of production, and in many cases the producers did not have time to collect their production, so that it rotten or rotted in the fields. The questions to the respective Ministry of Rural Development and the Minister, Madam President, are first of all related to the completion of the assessments by the ELGA and of course to proceed directly to the compensation. The second question is what measures the Ministry will take to alleviate the obligations of the respective producers in the Trikala Prefecture, as far as their debts are concerned, their public debts, banks and insurance funds are concerned. The third is about the need for the improvement projects that we have put forward and another question - in spring, with the first floods at the time and the rainfalls for the Trikala Prefecture - which need not only in Trikala, but also throughout the country as well. The fact that farmers pay, notably, TWGs, GODs etc. But that can also be said in dentistry. The fourth is the well-known issue with ELGA, which damages it pays and what products, which we repeatedly raise with questions. He is aware of both the present government and the present political leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development, as well as the former ones. Of course, in this direction, we say that the regulation should be changed and all agricultural and livestock products should be compensated for the damages of any kind. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u43	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u44	Mr President, the necessary labelling has been carried out for these damages, announcements have been made and some three thousand statements have been made. The work of assessments is under way. Approximately 60% has been and continues. You know, I referred earlier to the great problem we have with the abstention of assessors. But I would like to reiterate once again that the ELGA will cover all the compensation and, of course, through the payment procedure as long as the producers concerned are aware - in fact, because it concerns the growing season, the period ending at the end of 2016 - those who have not been able to respond in time to their insurance policy, can come into contact with the ELGA and through a process of advancement and a regulation to deal with this issue. As you know, all these damages will be covered. However, damages for which there is no corresponding premium cover, we will enter the known procedure, as a PESA. I do not have to repeat anything that I have said many times. And, of course, if we can damage afforestations in particular to include them in the Rural Development Programme in Measure 4, it will be very positive, because the specific amount that we receive every year, which the European Commission will be able to make every year for aid, for compensation within the state budget, does not exceed EUR 15 million. And because this year has been very difficult, we will try as much as possible to incorporate them into this Rural Development Programme so that we can cover all the damages that the space needs. As far as matters relating to other ministries are concerned, I have told you and I repeat, it also has for the Trikala region the decision of the Ministry of Finance, which provides for exemptions, provides for the facilities which are available in these cases, which have been affected by a natural disaster, that is to say, areas which are declared in an emergency situation. As regards, of course, the necessary flooding projects, which are generally related to the rational management of water resources, the Ministry of Rural Development, through the new programme concerning a specific measure, will also endeavour to include damages which can be restored within this programme, within the investment costs of the Rural Development Programme.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, one - one - the issues, at least what we put to the question. You said before about the Treasury. What parole? It shall not give any such suspension and shall not mention any document of the Ministry of Finance on suspension. Possibly - as you would like to say, to be precise - for a period of time, yes. However, these are due, in other words, by the end of the period, which the Treasury gives, is a demand. You said it's estimated 60%. We are heading towards the end of November, the costs are running, in agricultural terms, for the new growing season and for the farms which farmers should buy and supply the needs of their families, their children and their children, the taxes themselves, the carpets are running, it is a demand. What about all this? What about the loans, the banks, the majority of them? What's going to happen in this direction? All right, it's going to be three months, four months, in the semester, possibly given by the Treasury. Then what will happen to them? When will the remaining 40% of estimates be specifically completed? It's a mockery and a mockery of what's going on with the ELGA. I'm not saying it's happening now. It was years ago. Because history repeats itself. Every year the same. In other words, you have farmers who pay premiums of about 170 to 175 million euros a year. Yes or no? Yeah. There are flood disasters and other factors. They are forced, so that ELGA valuers come to their field and land and make the estimate, to pay over the application: a euro the acre, ten minutes the tree. Is it or isn't it? It is. We are firmly opposed to this. As we were categorically opposed to the 2010 Act, 2011 - when it was voted - to increase the characters, the insurance premiums, namely, in ELGA, so we are opposed to paying this one euro per acre, the farmers and the trees for the disasters suffered by their production, so that they can apply, so that ELGA can go. When? What ELGA? The undersubscribers who, as you and everyone in this Chamber know very well and not just, do not go or do they rightly testify to their protests, because they do not cover their transport costs to go to the field. Not all rural areas are flat on a plain. You need to climb mountains, you need to go to more remote areas, etc. We therefore say that we must complete immediately, Minister, the assessments and, of course, the government must proceed immediately to the payment of compensation - the fairness of which we say compensation - to 100% of the damages. Now look. Do farmers pay or do they not pay per acre already to the GFCM for works of improvement? I am not telling you about the flooding, because we know in our region that these projects, the wider anti-military protection, are ineligible. Because it is not of interest to the large business groups who want to invest in the construction sector too, to make such projects. These are ineligible, even in European Union programmes, of course, either of the new or the old ESDPs and so on. But even in this case where farmers pay, they do not have the basic infrastructure. I am referring to the improvement projects. I'm stressing it. I do not open it to all the flooding projects, which are important too. But in this case they are paying, and again their land is drowned with the first floods, because there are no works or what is available they are not sufficiently supported or not treated as they should be. It's a mockery, too. You know that very well. The funds are too little and always under the approval of the European Union. They are crumbs in front of the huge needs of farmers and the damage, if you like, either natural or other reasons. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u47	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, the Ministry of Finance, as I have told you, has adopted a decision in this respect giving an extension of six months of the payment of the debts, which, of course, can be settled in instalments - up to twenty-four monthly instalments - and, if necessary, when this time period expires, there is such a possibility. These are the liabilities to the public, insurance corporations, etc. You mentioned the fact that the assessment, as I have told you, has been completed at 60%. For the rest, we will make an effort, because there are also the necessary witnesses. But, even in this case, I repeat that farmers will be compensated, because we know what these crops have been affected and, of course, we know what their performances are. They are elements that we will use, but right now we are still insisting that the assessors also understand the difficulties they face to continue. They're right about their request. We cannot at the moment, for many reasons which we have mentioned, satisfy it. As far as the amendment of the ELGA is concerned, we must of course see how the ELGA can deal with other damages and other risks that exist in agricultural production, which had not been foreseen. But for all of these, of course, there is a need for similar proportionate studies, such as damages due to extreme weather phenomena, damages from climate change, damages as I told you before, caused by fires in the natural environment. These are issues which concern us and which we will of course consider. With regard to what you have said about the improvement of projects, we have the Rural Development Programme in front of us and it gives us potential. Today, from national resources, as you can see, we cannot cover corresponding expenditure. We shall try, therefore, because the Rural Development Programme also enables us to use resources to compensate for damages so that we can achieve better results in an area that actually has problems. But at this time, as you can see, it is such a budget crisis that many priority issues for us cannot be satisfied.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u49	We thank the Minister for his four questions. Before giving the floor to the Secretary of State for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity to answer two questions that have been put to him, I would like to quickly announce the questions that will not be discussed. Due to the impediment of the honourable Member, the 15th under number 197/11-11-2016 will not be discussed by the 15th under the second cycle of the Senate MP of the Union of Centres Mr Anastasios Megalamustakas to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the problem of the growth of the population of stray animals in our country. It will not be discussed as a result of the interrogation of the honourable Member, the 17th Chamber of Deputies, with number 45/5-10-2016, a top-level question for the second parliamentary group, Mr Theodoras Megalonou to the Minister of Health, on the serious shortages of staff and funding at the National Rehabilitation Centre. It will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister responsible abroad, the first with number 212/15-11-2016, a top-level question for the Attica MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Panagiotis (Panou) kouriakou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the use of the Olympic Sniper in Markopoulos Attica. Mr. George Vasiliadis is absent abroad. Also, due to the absence of the Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos, the thirteenth will not be discussed with number 192/10-11-2016, a topical question for the second cycle of MP I Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, towards the Minister of Health, concerning the inclusion of the Meningitis B vaccine in the National Vaccine Program. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a statement to this House. Eukleidis Tsakalotos submitted the following draft laws: ‘To ratify the State's financial year 2015 statement’ and ‘To validate the balance sheet of the State of the financial year 2015’. They shall be referred to the Reporting Committee and the General Balance sheet of the State and to the audit of the implementation of the State's budget. Now we will discuss the third question by number 198/11-11-2016 of the second question by the Member of Parliament, Atolocarnania, the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the insurance facilities of businesses, employers or insured of the Municipalities of Messina and Napatia due to natural disasters on 21 and 22-10-2016. Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u50	Madam President, I would like to express my warmest condolences to the family of the former President of the Republic of Kostis Stefanopoulou. Besides, it's a loss for all of us. His spirit, his dignity, his consistency, his seriousness and his well - being was something that made him stand out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u51	We talked at the beginning of the late meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u52	Minister, after the extreme natural phenomena, heavy rainfall and flooding on October 21st and 22nd in Itolokarna and especially in the Municipality of I.P. Messology and the Municipality of Nafpatia, huge problems have arisen for professionals, farmers, citizens, who are all in despair. People were at risk, property was lost, households were destroyed. These areas were declared in an emergency. In fact, with the numbers. 1159/2016 and 1160/2016 decisions of the Deputy Minister of Finance were extended and suspended the payment of certified tax debts of natural persons and entities having their principal place of residence or registered office in the above areas. However, there was no care on the part of the Ministry of Labour to provide facilities for insurance contributions. It is a question of wondering that no such facilities were granted, although they were given to other regions of the country, which have recently faced extreme physical phenomena. Let me remind you of your decision on 25 October for similar areas. Minister, the citizens of the Municipality of Messology and the Municipality of Nafpatia came to objective strife due to the disasters. They need immediate measures to help them meet their insurance obligations. Only so will they be able to return smoothly to their everyday lives. Questions, then: First of all, why have no corresponding insurance facilities been granted to businesses, employers and insured persons affected by natural disasters on 21 and 22 October in the Messology and Shipbuilding municipalities, in contrast to what has been decided in similar cases, as I said before? Secondly, do you intend to make such arrangements directly for the affected areas of Itoloakarnania and with what specific timetable, both for Mesologio IPA and the Municipality of Nafpatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Petersburg, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Madam President. The process of delimiting the damaged areas is very clear, it is laid down in the law and the region makes it clear. You said the floods in the region of Itolokarna, I.P. Mesologi and Nafpatto were held on 21 and 22 October. I will tell you that the earthquakes that took place in 2014 in the same region were dealt with by the ministerial decision that had to be adopted over a year later. You are right, but if you remember in 2014 the earthquakes took place in your area. And after a year and a half, the relevant decision was taken that demarcated the affected enterprises. Discrimination is made to the law in respect of the firms affected, not to all those who are generally in that area. So there is an autopsy to be made by the relevant regional bodies and that takes time. The relevant document you refer to, which I issued on 25 October, you will note that this is a number of areas throughout Greece from Argalas to Volos to Messinia and Elias and in many areas and to the fires in Thassos. It was all those areas that, until the relevant document was drawn up, these events had occurred. And from the point of view of care and foresight - not full of action, because even there have not been completed the procedures for identifying damage - in order to have a guideline to all the services of the Social Security Agency in order not to prosecute companies and people who are in these areas, I have taken out this document, which I have also sent to the relevant services in these areas. I'll do it for the Nafpatiko and the Messolonghi because there have been other damages in the meantime. There were other theories in other regions after 25 October. This document, which is a guideline and does not solve the issue, is expected, Mr Constantopoulos. The question will be solved legally and in full, when the relevant regional bodies tell us what the companies that have been damaged are. We are therefore not out of intentions to which you too wish to respond.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u55	Here, Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u56	Mr Minister, what I ask is that the Ministry of Finance should also apply from the point of view of the Ministry of Labour. The question is that there should be immediate measures to resolve and support the inhabitants of these regions, which will enable them to return to the normality of their lives, because they have already suffered the consequences of the crisis and are now also obliged to suffer the consequences of these extreme weather conditions. Let me stress here that the floods on 21 and 22 October have resulted in other consequences, such as some who did not pay for their regulation at the end of October. Here too, the citizens are trying in every way to maintain the regulation they have done, because they really need to deposit the amount that they have paid for this dose at the end of each month. But because of these conditions, some have lost her. We need to look at it and look at what can be done about it. You also know that many face criminal responsibilities - if they are, of course, inconsistent with their regulation - and risk confiscations of their property. Now all these people are in the air. And for these reasons they cannot do much more than really control things. You must therefore - and it is your duty - give an extension of six months. In fact, I would say that your decision must also apply retrospectively to support those who have been confronted with these extreme natural phenomena. I would also like to draw your attention to another serious issue. It is a fundamental request for the local society to initiate direct procedures for the implementation of anti-military projects that prevent such catastrophic phenomena, although I know, of course, that this does not concern your portfolio. It is necessary, however, for the government to ensure that many regions of the region, particularly Ioannina, are protected against flooding. There is, in fact, a briefing by Mr Skourletis that resources will be made available for the implementation of a programme to prevent damage and disasters and in the city of Messology and Nafpath. This programme would say that it is necessary to extend to other areas of the Aetolocarnania Prefecture, where such natural disasters occur, so that people do not feel that they are left alone to deal with the consequences of natural phenomena. Also, it is necessary immediately to undo the resources of the NRP 2014-2020 for Western Greece, in order to make substantial progress in implementing those studies that have been designed for some time and have not evolved so far. That is why it is necessary for the government to ensure as soon as possible that the regions are not exposed to such extreme weather conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u57	Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Constantopoulos, we are making sure that we respond to such problems, such as the flooding work you are talking about. I would remind those who have not heard it and have not been informed that, in a few months' time my decision to accept a relevant opinion from the Legal Council of State is given the possibility of providing insurance information to those municipalities where such projects are to be carried out, so that they can use funds from various programmes - either public investment or the NSR - in order to carry out the projects and make insurance contributions from these funds. So we make sure that in any case we take the measures we can to help the local authorities to do what is necessary. However, I will come back to what I told you before on insurance contributions. It is certain that those in debt, who have been hurt, will have no problem. However, once the region affected has been demarcated by the region concerned, no one will lose anything. I'm telling you, I'm sure. He's next to you and Mr. Kegeroglu who can assure you that he's always been like this. That didn't change now. I told you before that in the 2014 earthquake the relevant decision came out a year and a half later. I could bring you many cases here which seem to have come to light after a few years and two years, and we are now talking for a few months. I would like to say that, as I have done for all the other areas from the firefighting Thassos to the Messinia, which had the damage from theory, from the floods, and Elias, Laconia and Pagasios, they are covered in my own circular - the direction of directives towards all services - I will do so for this area as for others that followed later, after 25 October that I made the decision. There is therefore no cause for concern about those who have been hurt, because they are concerned only. The law expressly says, it is an old law, it is not current and it would be truly paradoxical for those who have not suffered damage to enjoy the advantages - which are not advantages, it is essentially support - who also enjoy those who have been damaged. In other words, think about surviving a oven in an area of disaster, destroying five ovens, and that one also benefits from the suspension of contributions. It would not be reasonable and has nothing to do with the idea of solidarity that this law wants to offer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u59	You referred it to the future. Immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u60	Let go, Mr. Constantopoulos. We've been a long way out of the program. We will now discuss the question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on compulsory insurance for small businesses in villages of less than two thousand inhabitants. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, following the resolution of Insurance Law 4387/2016, there has been a public debate, which has also continued since the law was passed on to small villages, which I would generally say relate to villages of less than two thousand inhabitants, but are mainly located in smaller local communities. For your part, there is the assurance that nothing will change in what is happening so far. For our part, there is the question of what categories this applies to. I would say that the inhabitants and those who are entrepreneurial in the villages are really confused because, listening to you on the one hand and us on the other, they do not come to a conclusion on what will apply from 1-1-2017. And I am thinking now: those who are currently engaged in non-agricultural activities, but because of the welfare of the existing law, are insured in the OGA, they will continue - as it seems - the course, the development of insurance contributions for farmers for non-agricultural activities. That's what I understand so far. For new activities you have not clarified what will apply from 1-1-2017. One, which will start in January in a small village in 2017, will be insured according to what applies to farmers or free professionals? This debate is really taking place in every cafe in these villages, and we need to make it clear so that insecurity from these people is removed and that they are able to cope with the many problems they already face because of the economic crisis and because of the decline in activity in the small villages, in the local communities, in which they make an effort to keep and stay. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u62	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Madam President. The clear provision of Article 40 of Law No.4387 leaves no doubt, Mr Kegeroglu, and you do well to ask, since there is such concern in the countryside, so that it can be made clear once again. I'll say it by reading the law. The law speaks of those who were subject to the OGA provisions. They shall maintain these provisions in respect of subject matter. He then talks about those who fall. So he's talking about the future in a future time. The provision therefore leaves no doubt as it says below that it will be subject to the general and specific provisions applicable to the OGA until the entry into force of the law. Therefore, beyond all doubt, it is clear that for future activities that are not agricultural, but are carried out in areas with less than two thousand inhabitants, they will also be on the scale of that minimum base for the calculation of the insurance contributions to be applied to farmers, namely EUR 410. It is true that you did not say so, perhaps in your dentistry, that the tourist accommodation was excluded, because these were also included before in the category of other shops in areas with less than two thousand inhabitants. They were excluded and I will give you the explanation now, to reassure the people concerned, in case they have tourist accommodations below five. That was the old arrangement. If they are farmers or if they have another activity and are subject to their main occupation in another activity, what will happen is to pay an insurance contribution on the net profit, the net revenue that will be generated in the accommodation activity. It is therefore not ultimately a serious burden. As far as those who have no activity but tourist accommodation and for them alone are concerned, the difference in the burden, if they have income above the minimum, will be around EUR 35 per month in relation to the contribution they would pay if this exemption were not here now. In fact, tourist accommodations amount to about two thousand twenty - nine persons. So many businesses that have only tourist accommodation. They are accommodations that have great incomes, great revenues, because you know that too many areas have excellent accommodations. If you go to many areas - not to list them - as in Crete or Hersonissos, you will see small accommodations, but they are quite skeptical in price.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u64	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would not even refer to tourist accommodation, because that was not the subject of the timely question. The subject of the topical question is hundreds of thousands of small activities in the villages, in the local communities of less than two thousand inhabitants, who are really struggling to keep the countryside alive and especially the disadvantaged areas in particular. You said that the provision of Law4387 on these activities was clear. And for those who exist and for those who start after 1-1-2017 they will follow the insurance contributions according to the rules to be paid by farmers, namely - to go to the next stage - there will be a transitional period until 2019-2020...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u66	In 2021.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u67	...to which we will have a progressive increase in insurance contributions, which they pay for. If this EUR 410 is the case, tell us exactly what it is. Is it a monthly or annual contribution and for what year is it? Of course, you can tell us and explain to us, since it is based on income, the EUR 410 is what it means, whatever the answer is. I want you to give us an example. 2020, I do not know what a transitional period it will be, in 2018. One who has an income of 10,000 euros - not to go to higher incomes - from rural and professional activities, how much insurance will be paid in 2020? 'Cause we're getting a lot more miserable. Will he pay on the basis of his income for 27%, 70%, where are the farmers' insurance contributions? Give these answers so that the doubt can really go away to people. This is the point of the question about the thousands of microprofessionals and micro-enterprises that are active or young people who want to stay in their place and there must be an incentive. I would say that, in order not to go through the opt-out procedure - because it is not something we do a favor - there should be a different approach to them perhaps with the same objective. Incentives to stay in their place, incentives to stay in disadvantaged areas to keep a local community alive. What does that mean? It means that from the insurance contributions they pay to cities in other activities, local activities in these areas have a certain percentage, for example 50%, with which they will be charged and I am not referring to transitional periods. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u68	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Kegeroglu, I was recently asked by one executive in agricultural production what a maximum pension a man can receive from farming or livestock or fishing. When I told him that the maximum pension, based on the current data and not on the future - that is, on the basis of the present values - would reach EUR 2,037, he said to me 'We ignored it, because we felt that the pensions would be about what the OGA currently pays'. The minimum basis for calculation is EUR 410, on which the levy is calculated. So for those farmers who have very high incomes, there will indeed be a greater contribution. That's the rule. The basis for the calculation, however, which is to protect those who are in a small production capacity, is the lowest we have been able to find, namely 70% of the EUR 586 that is applicable to all other insured cases. It was a provision for farmers, farmers and fishermen, because there is greater vulnerability in this production and because there are many issues that make it difficult for people working in these areas. So I do not think that there is something here too, which I should like to make more specific. Of course, someone who has a small shop and a crop in a village or area of less than two thousand inhabitants will be in this context established and within this basis will vary the calculation of contributions, which has been escalating since 2017 to 14%, in 2018 to 16% after going to 19% and 19.5% and ending to 20% in 2021. There is, therefore, a gradual transition by the percentage of the contribution, which, as I said, varies sharply lower than the other members. The 410 base is of course for those with the lowest income. I think the evidence we have is intact. We have said that around 95% of farmers are saying about 5,000 euros net income. There are therefore no such problems which you are concerned about as to how the countryside can be devastated by this system of contributions. On the contrary, it is at the heart of our insurance system now and the farmer, who, Mr Constantopoulos, - because I saw your message - will be so. Of course, they won't be most of them in high pensions because they don't have that much income. However, it will be enough in some cases where some producers have large incomes. And there are those. Of course, there's not many of them. I said 95% is up to 5,000 euros. I'm not talking about the many, I'm talking about a few.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u70	How much will the income have to pay for 10,000 euros? And the income of 5,000 euros, how much will he pay? Can you tell me that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u71	You see there's a variation. I can't now account for five different percentages of my mind. So there will be no problem. Be well! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u72	We move to the fifth under number 180/7-11-2016 topical question of the second question of the MP Arta of the New Democracy Mr. Georgios Stylios to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the blockades in the start of the work of restoring the old Judges Artas. The timely question will be answered by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Christos Spirtzis. Here, Mr. Style, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u73	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, I come back today with a timely question on a matter that concerns the city of Arta, and also the Law of Arta, in relation to the old Court of Justice, which is located in the centre of the city. I have tabled a series of questions both last May and June and to you and to the Minister of the Environment and to the Minister of Justice in order to clarify the matter with the old Justice House. I would remind you, therefore, that the Peace Court and the Arta Penitentiary are housed in a rented building which does not meet the requirements of a modern building. In fact, there is a private building, the old courthouse, prepared by the studies and cleared the property in relation to the building. I would remind you of the last answer you have given me, answering the question of 'CRITERIA INFRASTRUCTURE'. You sign and send me. My question was on 2-6-2016 and you replied on 6 July this year. I read to you exactly what the document of the company "CITIZENS S.A." is a body that you are supervising. So he says: “... the project is part of the Public Investment Program this year. The appropriations in the 2016 budget are EUR 500,000 and are estimated to be auctioned by the end of September...’. Since this issue is from 2013 and to the great disappointment of our fellow citizens, the restoration work has not yet begun, Minister, you ask yourself: has the tender of the project been completed? Did the contractor turn up? Are there any objections? What is the timetable for its start-up and completion? What steps do you intend to take to speed up the process? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u74	Here, Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to your timely question, I would like to inform you that many court buildings, not only in Arta, are housed throughout the country in rented buildings, which do not fulfil the conditions that we would like the court buildings to have. As you know, the competence for these buildings and the financing of their construction belonged to the Ministry of Justice, which entrusted it to the company "THEMIS VERIFICATION". The merger, which took place by the previous government, unfortunately did not provide for the transfer of resources that existed in the new company, namely the "CITIRIAN SUBCOMMITTEES". This is the public limited company in which three companies were merged, one of which is also the ‘MEMISTICAL CONSTRUCTION’. You know that where there is no funding, there are no projects. I am not saying that for this particular case, I say it in general, because from the "them" and from the DENMAR and from the U.S. In addition, I would like to mention for this work that both in its 2014 document of 'MEMBER CUSTOMS' - and I would like to present them to you later - and to the service providers who have then handled this issue - as 'CITIZENS OF INFRASTRUCTIONS' - and they have given us the answer you have, it was mature. In particular, it refers to a reply from the CEO of the ‘MONTISTIC’ on 11 February 2014 that the studies have been completed both with the Ministry of Justice and with the Artas Bar Association. The same report was made available by service providers in June, which we sent, as you mentioned. These reports also established my interest, because in 2016 the project has not been completed. I would therefore inform you that, in order for the auction to take place, building permits should have been issued in accordance with the studies carried out. A number of shortcomings in these studies were revealed in the process of issuing financial authorisation. Specifically, I should like to point out to you what was missing: there was no geotechnical study at all, and the correspondence was made both with the Municipality of Artas, if the Municipality could work it out - and with the FAO - to finance it. There was no energy study, according to the Energy Performance Regulation. All the studies that had been carried out by 2014 were up-to-date, because part of the building was arbitrary and arbitrary. Following the above, the mandate was given for the completion of the missing studies, the examination, in accordance with the law, of the arbitrary part of the building and the update of the above, allegedly, completed studies so that the Office can auction the work in the first half of 2017. Unfortunately, it is another case where it highlights the pathogens in the area of public works, services and even their sluggish treatment following the merger procedures of the three companies SOC, DEPANOM and THEMIS in one. With the forecasts we have set out in the new Public Works Act, many similar cases will emerge and be dealt with so that they do not cost public works - due to the omissions and unfinished or unfinished studies that exist - multiples of what they really have to cost the Greek people. Thank you very much and congratulations, because this is also the case through parliamentary scrutiny.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u76	Here, Mr. Style, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u77	Thank you. Minister, I'm not covered by your answer. It does not cover me because I expected a man in the technical sector to give me specific timetables, specific dates. I would also like to inform you that the government is also exposed through you, but also the previous government, which has been reformed. But you are also presenting SYRIZA MPs from Artas Law, because from the previous Minister of Justice, Mr. Paraskevilos, there was an announcement last May with MP Artas, Mr. Tsirka, that this work will immediately proceed and be auctioned. So my role is to watch and control you. I have made a commitment to the Armenian people that I will exercise strict criticism, control and surveillance of what you are writing and say and that you and the government as a whole. There was a statement last May from the Ministry of Justice, along with Mr Tsirka, MP Artas, that the work will proceed immediately. But I didn't stop there. Artinian fellow citizens may believe you. I don't believe you. That's the reality. I specifically asked. Therefore, the company you are supervising replied that the tender would take place in September. I have the answer here. If you want, I can give it to you, put it in the Minutes, to read it exactly. When they gave this answer, did they not know that there is a problem with geotechnical studies, that there is no geotechnical study? They didn't know there was an arbitrary department? Didn't they know there was no energy study? Did they not know that there was no building permit for this building? It is an old building, which is kept. The whole study is renovation and renovation of the Court, which is located at a very central point in the city of Arta. So I see a series of omissions. I see that parliamentary control does not put your signature underneath, but refer to the document of the company 'CITIZENS S.A.'. Here comes the "CITIAN INFRASTRUCTURES" and write whatever it is. In the end, what is this for? The point is that the Artas Court cannot be held. This case I personally, Minister, have been chasing it since 2013. The previous Minister for Infrastructure, Mr Chrysochoidis, and the previous Minister for Justice, Mr Rupakiotis, had been asked a question. They've given answers. The studies have been made since then. I left for a year to go back to the subject, since the SYRIZA government took over, and since 2015 I have been in the spring of 2016, but the problem continues and cannot continue. I would also like to point out one more point, which I tell you very well. In the Public Investment Programme you have a budget of 500,000 euros this year. You will lose the credit, Minister. Next year, you have to put it in the budget again, from the outset. I fought to register this project in 2014 by the previous government in the Public Investment Program. When it comes into the Public Investment Program and writes "credit for this year", with a budget of EUR 1 million, you will lose it from another project that you could do to your Ministry. Please, I expect you to give me specific answers. You and my fellow citizens will also know that we will not leave this to his fate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u78	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u79	Mr. Style, don't let it go, keep doing strict control, surveillance and criticism. I thank you for what you have said, because in your elegant way you are making your self-criticism, not your personal self-criticism, the events of the previous government and not just. Not only did they know that there were not such studies - unfortunately for all of us, in order to know, and how some Services operate - they not only falsely informed Parliament - and I inform you that I searched for who was responsible, but it has retired, if you like, to inform you in private - but they had become addicted to such procedures. Why am I saying that? I say this because, when there is no geotechnical study in an earthquake area, you know very well that in the development of the project the contractor who will take the study will come and say: "It is incomplete to study, it does not cover us, we must go to review the study." This means a review of prices, jobs, new prices. It also means additional money, due to the delays and irregularities that will be created. This was a constant tactic in the works and in these bodies, unfortunately. So these projects cost a lot more than the original budget and they were all happy, and the service actors, who did not do their job as they should, and the contractors, who then asked for much more. I'm fine! Of course, and the compensation not given by the Agency, a contractor was very reasonable in a court of law and earned it. I see in the Chamber colleagues from several wings who voted recently in August the new law on public works. All these practices are abandoned, because it should be not just mature, not only should there be implementation studies, building permits and all the rest to start, as well as the expropriations that are important, but we should avoid all these distortions, which we would not have done as a state, but would be much longer than the project, if we went to a clipboard contest with these shortcomings, until it is completed, than to delay a little in the study and have serious studies to make the project. In the rest, the commitments made by the previous Minister for Justice and by Mr Tsirkas - Mrs Gerovasili has also been interested - are true, because the work will obviously proceed and we will also be interested in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, too. Before I give the floor to the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Polakis, to answer two questions submitted to him, to announce that they will not be discussed by the relevant ministers and will be redefined for discussion, the following topical questions: The second, under number 207/14-11-2016, is a top-cycle question for Parliamentary 2 Athens, New Democracy, Ekaterini Papakostas - Ironropoulou, Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the completion of the upgrade of the higher technological educational institutions (ATHI). The eighth Question No 127/18-10-2016 dated the second question by the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister for Research and Religious Education, on the problems of student housing at the University of Epirus. Finally, the ninth question, under number 62/10-10-2016, of the second question of the Evian MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Michou to the Minister of the Interior, concerning the "displacement of thirty-six thousand seven hundred, sixty-six hundred Greek children from the nursery stations", will not be discussed, due to the impediment of the Minister of Home Affairs Mr. Panagiotis Skourletis, due to the unsuccessful obligations. We shall now proceed to the debate on the topical and urgent questions and I would ask you to be brief. The fourteenth under number 194/11-16 will now be discussed in the second cycle of the New Democracy MP, Christos Boukokouros, on the payment of workers from the General Hospital of Volos, pending from 2014. Mr. Buquoore, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u81	Minister, I am presenting today's question in the light of the agony of Volos Hospital's workers, who see that the two years have elapsed in which they have the right to legal action and to judicial redress. As you know, this is money at night and exceptionally since 2014, which was not paid due to reduced funding. Of course, your Ministry, in a relevant document from November 15, 2015, has made it clear to the Volos Hospital employees' association that overtime fees cannot be paid from past years. But, Minister, I feel that we are responsible as a state when it comes to requesting hundreds of workers who claim to pay their money, who are not more than EUR 300 to 500 for each worker. It is about 85,000 euros for nursing and administrative staff and 150,000 euros in total. They had submitted the request to your Ministry for the employees to be paid by a 2011 code, which was an excess of about 140,000 euros if my memory doesn't cheat on me. I think that it is fair and reasonable to ask the workers and we need to find a solution. Your Ministry must take a legislative initiative, an amendment, either by means of surpluses from previous years or in any other way, in order to satisfy this fair request from the workers, because they are occupied. As you will know, in 2015 this money was paid by the account, by the debts of the EEAS, to the hospitals. In 2016 we will see what will happen. It therefore disappears in 2014. It is money that workers are at risk of losing if December of this year, 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u82	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u83	Mr Bukkaro, thank you for the timely question, because you give me the opportunity to clarify some things and, more generally, because this government has really undertaken to raise the country and correct some things that you are doing well and put them in place. The point is, we pay your own "loans" and the fact that at the time you were up you weren't paying them. I'll say specific. In May 2015, an exceptional grant was granted to hospitals in the country to pay past year's newspapers. This funding was totalling about EUR 37 million and actually paid on-calls - for doctors I am talking about now - in a host of hospitals in the country. There were some - a few - hospitals, which, unfortunately, did not move, to get the money they were owed to them. This amount was added - the 37m euros, which were granted as an extra grant in the 2015 newspapers' budget - as a permanent allocation now for 2016. It really gives the opportunity to get the news programs out. This was the case for previous years since 2015. In 2015, for on-call and overtime, we voted for a provision that allowed hospitals to use money from the EEAY, which they collected against closed integrated hospitals, so that they could repay the corresponding expenditure, which on the basis of the basic budget of the on-call, overtime, would practically be one or a half months unpaid, as was left in 2014 and 2013 and in 2012 and others. That's what happened. It was 13,200,000 euros that were granted again to the vast majority of hospitals, except for one or two, who did not submit a request to the EEAY, were paid and was actually repaid all the state’s debts to hospital workers for on-call and overtime 2015. Recently the collection of data we asked for from a number of hospitals, because such as Volos Hospital, is also the Hospital of Mytilini, it is also the Hospital of Yannina - not the University - but a number of other hospitals in northern Greece, which have been in balance since 2014 for overtime, nights and exceptional, for which practically the funds that were given at the time were not enough. We're not talking about doctors. Volos is an exception to doctors, because then he hadn't moved. He could've taken that money, but he didn't get it. So that is why we are moving forward and have included in the bill on mental health, which will have been passed by 15 December, a provision, precisely to give a solution to this problem. In other words, we will allow revenues from the EEA which the hospitals have - perhaps in Mr Kegeroglu's question - in relation to the financing of hospitals, at the moment the hospitals have full funds - to be able to use these, to pay for the legalisation - that is, their ability - of such a kind that is due to previous years, because for a number of reasons it is 2014. A corresponding problem exists with the ESAB. There is a month of overtime unpaid for 2014 and this will be included there. We therefore give the opportunity to resolve this issue, because since 2016, especially, we have had no such problems. It's the first year after many years on-calls getting paid on time. Already the money of the newspapers and the last quarter is on the way to hospitals. In December, too, on-call and overtime will be paid for October and November, and by 10 January, it will be paid in December, because it must have been executed to get paid. So I think we're slowly closing this wound of the past and entering another situation, in relation to the payment of on-calls and overtime. We're going back to normality.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u84	Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u85	Minister, I am keeping your commitment to the provision in the next bill, that by 15 to 20 December the provision will have been passed which will allow the EPO's accounts to be paid and previously exceptional workers. I was referring mainly to administrative and nursing staff. You spoke mainly of on-calls. It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u86	These amounts are about...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u87	It doesn't matter. I keep your commitment. I think she's clear. On December 15th to 20th - Sunday's short celebration, which the proverb says - we'll see. From there on, for your general health expenditure placements, I am not sluggish at the moment to contradict the evidence. However, in general terms for the practice of the previous and current government, concerning the repayment of the State's debts to third parties, for workers, for pensioners, etc., you will allow me, Minister, to tell you that comparisons are catalytic. The previous New Democracy and Antonis Samaras government have taken these debts from 9 billion to 3 billion, and you are in danger of handing them over to the next government from 3 billion to 9 billion again. In this area, for your own area, I have told you that I have no data on you. However, for the general practice and what government was more or less well-paid, by reducing these debts to third parties, workers, pensioners and institutions, I think the comparison is a catalyst for the previous government. In any case, I think that it is with satisfaction that the Volos Hospital workers have heard your commitment that the provision will go through 15 to 20 December and that the 2014 payments due will be paid, which they are entitled to. Besides, we know that hospital nursing staff are staff who work hard and under adverse conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u88	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u89	I'd like to give one or two other clues. The General Hospital of Volos, "Achilopoulos", last year for 2015, received 436,000 euros in order to repay its total amount for 2015 on-call and overtime, which, based on the programming made by your government in the funds, would have been this difference in relation to their payments for 2015. Now, as far as the course of payment of due time is concerned, and for the more specific and, in general, Mr Bukkoro, there is no comparison. There's no comparison.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u90	I agree!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u91	Precisely, there is no comparison, because we know very well that with the 2013 instalment, you have given some hundreds of millions of euros to the IKA to repay old debts and did not repay them. Now we'll pay them. Now they're getting paid. So far, since the EUR 1.121 000, which is the cumulative financing of hospitals from the first and second instalments - the dose that we received after the closure of the first assessment - suppliers have been given EUR 850,000,000 from the hospitals alone. From the 960,000,000, of the total financing of the EEA in order to repay past debts and 2012-2015, but also before 2012, the other funds have been absorbed almost 400,000 euros, because the EEA is being given a slower amount. The hospitals were given two large doses, one five hundred seventy, one smaller fifty and another four hundred fifty. The EEAS shall be given more subdivision on the basis of the possibility of the General Accounting Office of the State. All dues, which were and were recorded by April 2016, are now being repaid, Mr Bukoro. In the health field, she's getting clean. And you should know something else: as the funding this year has gone from the insurance funds to the EEA, too many hospitals in the country will be closed without creating a due date. This will be the first time in the times of the public health system. First time in chronologicals! Because it is not only the smooth execution of the planned state funding to the hospitals, it is also the very large disbursement of funds from the EEA to the hospitals, which enables them, by 31 October, to pay them back, and in fact to close the year without the creation of new deadlines. We are doing a great deal of work to do and I think that from 2017 it will be another day for the health system, when you go in, that is, with practically balanced budgets, expenditure and payments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u92	Thank you. It will now be discussed in the sixteenth year under number 148/31-10-2016 a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the completion of the procedures for the recruitment of permanent staff to hospitals in the country. Because I see it very generally, "...in the hospitals of the country", I very much ask you to be precise in your time, because I have to read some questions that will not be answered. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Madam President. We're talking about serving the hospitals in the country. Every hospital in the country deserves to be staffed because it provides health services to our fellow citizens who pay and health insurance contributions and taxes for the operation of the system. The New Democracy colleague left, but I wanted to remind him - because he mentioned what the co-operation government received in 2012 - that in 2004-2009 the pharmaceutical expenditure from 2.8 billion was 6 billion, and in 2009 the hospitals had 9.5 billion debts. If we see in the crisis the effort to deal with the problems, to become a household, it was indeed remarkable. However, this does not relieve the New Democracy's responsibilities for the state of health and the impasse it had brought in the previous years. But today, two years after SYRIZA - ANEL’s taking over governance, the health situation and especially in hospitals has deteriorated considerably. Unfortunately, it's getting worse. The numbers are unrelenting. Only a comparison with the staff, where today they serve about seven and a half thousand less, in all hospitals in the country, throughout the health system than they served in January 2015, shows us exactly what is happening. Any attempts by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, which I assume the Minister will speak to us, are far too short of what is needed to improve the situation, but what is needed to prevent the situation from getting worse. A year ago the Minister of Health promised that recruitment for nine people, nurses and other staff will proceed quickly. Today, only five hundred of them are placed. On 2 April 2015 Mr Tsipras under the Ministry of Health promised that the five thousand recruitments already launched will be promoted in order to address the problems, at least partially, in hospitals. To date, there has been no recruitment of these four and a half thousand recruits. What happened? Has it been converted into four thousand people's work, as it was then said? We have not even seen any developments for them either. You proceeded with the recruitment of subsidiary staff - and you did well because the problems were immediate - but they do not cover 15% of the needs either. At the "Venizelio" Hospital nine recruitments were made, instead of fifty in need and the Ministry promised PANGNE seven instead of forty at the Rethymno Hospital three. As you can see at these rates, the 10% of the needs, which are increasing due to pensions, cannot be met. So the government, which increased contributions to 6% for all pensions, Mr. and Mr. Deputys, must tell us whether this money is going to be a place, that is, if they go to health or if other obligations - pensions or other expenses - are paid for the insurance funds. Also, if they go to health, can some of the hospital problems not be dealt with, apart from what you referred to before, with that money? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u94	Mr. Paulakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u95	Mr Kegeroglu, thank you for the timely question, because you will give me a chance again to clarify a few things. Because the scriptology of the disaster is well held and the WTO has taken over this role with the help of some of the opposition, take pencil and paper and note: Since October 2015 they have been serving in hospitals, hospitals, PEDYs, health centers and the structures of the health system below. Note and add. I am talking about new staff: a thousand two hundred supplementary doctors, two hundred twenty permanent doctors from old notices where the credits were, you had them frozen and you didn't hire them. Four hundred and twenty-two have been appointed so far and the next one is reappointed. Thousands, then, and two hundred twenty. One hundred and eighty-seven staff in the EAW. One hundred and forty-five people from CEDEFOP in the eastern Aegean, medical staff of the EAW and some doctors for the needs of refugees already granted an extension of their service. Of the nine hundred permanent citizens who have been proclaimed, at the moment we are talking - because they have informed you wrong, if I judge the number I have heard - the seven hundred eighty have been serviced. It's not just the FEK. Of the five hundred and eighty-five additional staff we opened in May and the health regions have been on duty around the three hundred people. It's between the two hundred ninety and three hundred. I don't have the exact number. Also, from the CDC competition for ICUs, there are two hundred fifteen nurses and sixty two doctors. All of this cumulatively from October 2015 until today makes us three thousand percent sixty - five. That's the reality. The rest of the evidence that they've gone, whatever they've done, what they've shown, I don't have it, Mr. Kegeroglu. Moreover, in addition to this, it is in the process of recruiting the remaining one hundred and twenty of the nine hundred eight and the remaining two hundred fifty of the five hundred eighty five who were from the ancillary staff. Also, the results of the rolling tables came out, following the next proclamation of the thousand and thirty - eight, six hundred and ninety persons. From the rolling table of 4K and 5K came the results and the distribution comes from the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction to be sent to hospitals. The remaining eight hundred in a new notice. Also, seven hundred permanent doctors have been given posts for the first time after eight - nine years, not appointed a permanent doctor in the system and in a crisis procedure in all health - care areas. The first 50 crises of these have already reached the Ministry of Health and we are now moving on to appoint them. There are two other acts of Ministerial Council with a thousand and two hundred staff who are nursing for the Athens and Piraeus Hospitals and the other four hundred other staff for the rest of Greece and two thousand permanent doctors for whom the posts will be announced in 2017. It is a serious effort to strengthen the public health system. At least in the last seven to eight years, such aid has not been granted, and that is why the system, Mr Kegeroglu, has been balanced, in relation to what it was a year ago. I am going to respond more specifically to my remarks on economics. However, the real picture that exists, not the one shown by the various media and writing some newspapers "CORDER THEME", is what I told you before.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u96	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and how forty-nine students and students and four teachers from the 4th High School of Alexandroupolis. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Firstly, it is a day of parliamentary scrutiny and secondly it is the last question, because we have started since 18.00. So you can see more of the Chamber and get a taste of the Greek Parliament. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, you have confirmed what I said to you: only subsidiary and only a few recruitments from those who had left behind. I said, of course, that any attempts you are going to make are falling short of the needs in order to improve the situation, but also of those that are needed to prevent the situation from getting worse all the time. You have not taken seriously - and this is at the expense of your decisions to tackle the problems and improve the situation in hospitals - that there are pensions every day. I told you that by putting the number of permanents - without the assistants - and taking into account the departures, we unfortunately have by many thousands less staff in the National Health System, whether we want it or not. There are pensions if you've forgotten about them. They don't cover recruitments at the rate we're going as a state, not even retirements. The proclamation of the four, four and a half thousand - I do not know exactly what the Prime Minister's promise and commitment to permanent recruitment was - needs to be launched.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u98	It's racing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u99	That can't go to the bells, and I can explain why. We already have too many thousands of staff who have mature pension rights and can move on to the pension application at any time. So this has to be taken into account too. I come to a specific subject at the ICUs, which you said nothing about.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u100	I said, but you didn't hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u101	You committed yourself last year to dealing with the problem of closed beds, which are about two hundred beds. You've been told that a hundred and twenty beds will work with the notice made by the CDC. How will they function with what they have done, with the disagreements with CEDEFOP and its administration, when the five hundred posts that have been proclaimed, placed or placed at this time about two hundred sixty, as you said, sixty doctors and two hundred nurses and nurses? In this way, taking into account those who leave, we will be glad to have 20 beds in addition to those that we had in the previous period. But that's not good enough. While in the notice you had made it a condition for doctors applying to have at least two years of service, then in pay you do not take into account pre-service and take seven and a half years or eight-and-a-half of intensive doctors. In this situation, obviously, they will not come to work through this notice and we will obviously also have departures if you do not correct this disorder, which is happening. It's completely wrong what you're doing. Intensive doctors cannot be rewarded with these amounts. When you say things have improved, you have not heard, the DPOs or the administrations will not have informed you that there are, in addition to closed ICUs, radiotherapists - CT scanners, laboratories - which are disabled, that there are no surgery why ICUs do not exist for postoperative treatment? Isn't that all about you? You said that the hospitals are full of funds before replying to my colleague. They don't have any problems with what I'm saying, it's journalistic information, so it's the responsibility of the administrations anymore. I think that's not real. The appointments, especially for some clinics, make too many months to be closed. Health centres in many cases operate for the sake of fundraisers and money deposited in favour of the memory of missing persons. At least in Crete we keep this. I see there's no admission of a situation. How are you going to deal with it? There must be an assumption of the situation and there must be the corresponding decisions that will be taken. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u102	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u103	Mr. Kegeroglu, you continue the same tale and unfortunately the reality doesn't match your story. I do not respond with air cut or the press releases made by various people because they have been in the outside of the client state at this time. Number of IF beds in operation at the moment in the public health system: five hundred fifty-four. Number of ICU beds in operation last year: four hundred thirty-eight. All the rest is'small turmoil'. Two. In the part you said about CEDEFOP doctors, there is indeed a problem with regard to pay, because the administrative mechanism of CEDEFOP - and I say so - makes an incomprehensible war in the new administration. But this thing will slowly fade and restore this injustice. I also forgot to tell you, Mr Kegeroglu, beforehand, that it is not three thousand hundred and fifty. It's more than that. There are also nine hundred and fifty-four posts from the 1998 ADP competition, which help hospitals with staff and have been recruited more than two hundred so far in hospitals and health care regions. Let me have another word. People were always retired from the system. Don't move and overcompensate the question of retirement. He cannot leave in one year - what you say to me with the seven thousand - 10% and 15% of the servants. There's no such thing. Right now, on the basis of the last, as I said, there are over three thousand, three hundred and three hundred recruits we've made. All the words. Permanent recruitment of these is a thousand. How many have you done, Mr. Kegeroglu, when you and Samaras colluded?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u104	Two and a half thousand in 2011.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u105	Mr. Kegeroglu, you're lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u106	Am I lying or are you lying?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u107	You're lying unrefractoryly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u108	We can't tell who's lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u109	The 9K was completed in 2011.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u110	Don't shout. The latest mass staff notice was 2009. That with 2011, you probably dreamed about it. Two. When you held the Adonian light and fired two and a half thousand from primary school, was that a reinforcement of the public system? You know what, Mr. Kegeroglu? It seems very challenging after what we've taken this year and a half. I give you evidence. You're the one who gave me reports from the newspaper "PRODUCT". What I gave you is evidence. And I challenge you to check it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u111	Seven and a half thousand minus.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u112	That's the reality. Listen. You'll get more upset.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u113	Mr. Kegeroglu, please. We're not gonna end this way. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u114	For the first time in so many years, people enter the health system, and you were only prosecuting. For the first time, even with this assessment, the second time you said that the dramalis disaster would come, 300 million more for health and education were guaranteed. And the system will be strengthened. And you're swinging our finger. Now you remembered it was a disaster. You're the one who made the disaster. You and your friend Samaras, who five years have destroyed what was there. And right now we got debris and we put it on his feet, whether you like it or you don't like it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u115	Be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u116	Yeah. That's the reality. That's her. So cut off the many newspapers you're reading. Cut the lot of information from the WTO, which, from morning until night, says 'disaster, disaster, disaster', because it can no longer do what you have done together.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u117	You're being ticked by the WTO.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u118	I mean, "Come here, boy. Where do you work? Is the climate heavy? Let's take you to some lightweight to get some pins." Or put in superintendents. He can't do it anymore.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u119	You do this job.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u120	She can't do it anymore, and she's got a lot of bad luck.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u121	Minister, please finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u122	You call it a disaster and we'll make it. And the people will judge, Mr. Kegeroglu. We'll all be here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u123	The people will judge.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, too. I conclude by reading the topical and urgent questions that will not be discussed: The third, with number 195/11-11-2016, a top-stage question by the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odyssea Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance, concerning the removal of obstacles to the exploitation of the former Greek airport. Also, the sixth question under number 182/7-11-2016 of a topical question by MP I of the Association of Central Banks Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Finance concerning the management of the red loans of the former ATE, in an unfair manner for its debtors. The fourth under number 221/15-11-2016 topical question by Attica MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Ioannis Giokas to the Ministers for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information and Finance, on delays in the payment to former contractors of the ERT. Also, it will not be discussed by the Minister of Tourism, Helena Kountoura, due to unsuccessful commitments, the first under No 213/15-11-2016 timely question of the second cycle of MP Aetolokarina, the Radical Left Coalition, Maria Triantafyllou, to the Minister of Tourism, on the completion of the work of the Marina Messlogi. Also, due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Finance, Georgiou Huliarakis, due to unsuccessful commitments, the second will not be discussed with number 208/14-11-2016, a topical question from the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazides, on the award of wage promotions to members of the Armed Forces and the Security Corps. Finally, due to the impediment of the Minister of Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Panagiotis Kouroublis, the 10th will not be discussed under the number 173/13-11-2016 topical question of the second cycle of MP, Thessalonica, Mr Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the approval of the medium-term business plan for the Port Authority of Thessaloniki (OLTH). The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-21-S1-commons.u125	With the consent of the House at 20.42' the sitting on Wednesday 23 November 2016 at 10.00, on the subject of the House's legislative work, is closed: according to the agenda distributed.
