ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to the Parliament's authorisation from 25-10-2016, its minutes were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau, on Tuesday 25 October 2016, with regard to the resolution to the entire draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: ‘Standard of the Consultative Memorandum of Understanding on the Organisation, Administration, Security, Financing and Maintenance of NATO Mixed Strip for the Electronic War (JEWCS) in support of NATO, between the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Ministry of Defence of Italy, the Minister of Defence, the Minister of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence, the Kingdom of Norway, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence of the United States of America, the Ministry of Defence of the United Nations and the Ministry of State of the United Nations, the Ministry of Defence of the United Nations and the Ministry of Defence of the State of the State of the United Nations, the United Nations, the Ministry of Defence and the State Department of Defence Department of the United Nations, the United Nations, the United Nations, the Ministry of Defence Department of Defence and the United Nations, the United Nations, the Ministry of Defence and the United Nations, the United Nations, the Ministry of Defence Republic of Defence Ministry of the United Nations and the United Nations and the United Nations, the United States of Defence and the United Nations.]] Ladies and gentlemen, with deep sorrow, I am telling you that the former MP and Minister, Professor Psychiatry Costas Stefanis left us last Saturday. Loss is huge. Professor Stefanis was the founder of modern Psychiatry with an international presence. He served as a health minister in the country and honoured it at all levels. He was a close friend of mine, and for me it's a big loss. The House and I personally express the warmest of our condolences to his family. The House, honoring its memory, will keep a minute's silence. [[In this respect, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks ……]] Let his memory be eternity! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organised and how forty-nine students and students and three teachers from the 1st PESAL Kalamata. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS We will begin with the seventh under No 87/12-10-2016 topical question of the Second Cycle of the Parliamentary Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Kefalidou to the Minister of Culture and Sport on the delimitation of the archaeological sites of Veroia. Mr. Baltas will answer Mrs. Kefalidou's question. Mrs. Kefalidou, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Let me also express my personal condolences to the loss of Kostas Stefani, a prominent personality in the field of medicine and politics, a man who was glowing with his presence and his life-saving the Democratic Compact. A little comment on what we've been living in the last 24 hours. I really hope that the wait for the decision of the Council of State not to be an alibi to refer to the Greek bells of the formation of the National Broadcasting Council. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since August there has been strong concern and reflection in the local society of Veroia, but also in general, about the manipulations and actions of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, aimed at a single declaration of the whole city of Veroia as an archaeological site. Your attempt to reverse the current archaeological map of the region, where there are hundred-three monuments and four historical sites, has caused enormous disturbance to the citizens. The citizens of the city are fully aware of the value of their cultural and architectural heritage and have practically demonstrated their interest in its rescue. Examples include, for example, the mobilisation of the Municipality of Veroia in the 1980s. We are not talking about a society that is indifferent. I guess the opposite. The local authorities, therefore, provided time-consuming financing for the restoration of views and roofs in numerous traditional buildings, have succeeded with renovation, hiking, purchases, restorations and reuses of preserved buildings to change Veria's appearance. Today, in the city of Veroia, it has not been left unpapered archaeological site. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need one more minute, Mr. President. The existing regime responds to the protection and promotion of monuments. While the Ministry of Culture should reward a city that loves, highlights and protects its monuments, all local bodies, chambers, scientific and commercial associations, feel that the relevant Ministry punishes them with its recent actions. This is specifically the document sent by the Ministry at the beginning of June and informed that the procedure was initiated in order to declare the entire city of Verea archaeological site. There he has found opposing aggregation of society and the MPs of counter-population and not unfairly. Even the local MPs of SYRIZA have been divided. Minister, you know that this proposed declaration involves an area of eight thousand hundred and twenty acres, including...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u3	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u4	It is important to say a few things, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u5	You'll tell your dentist.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u6	There's no time. I will say it now and let you keep time from my denunciation, Mr President. ...included are areas that are incapable of joining the city plan. With what the Ministry proposes to the entire town's town complex, approval will be required either by the local archaeological council or by the central archaeological council, which will be preceded by the permissions of the other authorities. The consequences will be enormous. So I ask you, Minister: first of all, is this the case? If so, what purposes serve such an action? Secondly, have you predicted to give compensation to those affected to reduce the value of their real estate? Because, as you know, the citizens have been exhausted by the payment of the ENVY - and they will continue to bleed - for a fortune that will be devalued every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Kefalidou, we must once come to an agreement in this House on some of the things that concern the entire place and its archaeological heritage and the treasures that the earth is still hiding in its innermost parts. We have to come to an understanding. We must therefore all understand that the declaration of archaeological space, other construction by zones, zone I, zone II, zone III. The proclamation of an archaeological site as an archaeological site has no impact on the preaching in zones I, II, III. Zone I - I repeat, because you probably don't know it - it's the monument area as such, so there's no way to build anything. Zone II is the guarantee of the monument and therefore the conditions of construction depend to some extent on the quality of the monument and what is to be done. In zone III there is absolutely no morphological restriction in terms of building. I repeat - you say this at one point in the time, but you do not seem to have inspired it - that Athens up to the Vineyards is an archaeological site, Patras - I do not know how much of it - is an archaeological site and there, in the corresponding zones III, there has been no obstacle to residents building. The proclamation of archaeological sites as an archaeological site simply means that the Archaeological Service has greater supervision over what is done in this area and only intervenes when the digging is found archaeological site. He's just being notified earlier to be there digging, so he can find out. This is an issue which seems to be not understood. There are therefore various residents protesting, those who have been declared an archaeological site, and others - strangely ask other municipalities - because archaeological site has not been declared. As you know, Veroia has a multitude of archaeological treasures, a hundred three, as you say, and a hundred thirty - two preserved buildings. The proclamation of archaeological sites throughout the city means that they are unified and that conditions of better construction are made. On the other part of your timely question, I will answer my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u9	Mrs. Kefalidou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u10	Mr Minister, as you can see, in response to phases you do not give the opportunity to a Member who has the opportunity after you to take the floor, to have a full picture of your answer and to be effective in what he asks. You keep something about the second part that I won't be able to talk about. So I'll tell you...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u11	Shall I second now, so Mrs. Kefalidou doesn't worry?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u12	I would be happy if we could have a full picture. I'd love to, but I don't know if that can happen, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u13	Keep going, Mrs. Kefalidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u14	So I keep going. Your argument, Minister, I understand it. After all, this was said at the meetings you held at the end of September in your ministry with the agencies. But the result counts. I know the sensitivities and the importance with which the Ministry of Culture is approaching the issues of our cultural heritage. Believe me as much as the citizens of Veria have the same sensitivities. Convicted decisions and actions such as the one announced by the Ministry, that all the city of Veroia will be declared archaeological site, all it manages - to date at least - is to exalt the local society into the opposite bank. What the inhabitants themselves view as a blessing to this day will turn into a curse. But is that what you want, Minister? To speak in real terms and not to confine ourselves to paper exercises. I will tell you a very simple example: Last year, a project of rural road construction was launched by the Municipality of Veroia in the area of Risomas, so that farmers could move their products in Greece. The Archaeological Service carried out a feasibility check, challenging the need to create an asphalt road, because it considered that in an archaeological site to fall asphalt is inconsistent with its environmental sensitivities and to promote the space. Is the Ministry finally against creating infrastructure for farmers? Because, if you don't understand it, it'll take place at every initiative in the city. Archaeology will decide whether and what work will be done in the city of Veroia. You know and I know - and the recent history of the whole country proves it - that nothing can go right and actually if those who are called to implement it stand across the street. Finally, Minister, who are basically and effectively called upon to honor and protect the treasures of our country beyond the citizens themselves? And what can a state expect from them, when it deceives them, is committing them excessively and meaninglessly? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Minister, the world of Veria you want with you in this effort to protect our cultural heritage. This means, however, that before it announces decisions and creates unfavourable works, listens to the world, take into account the objections raised and any decision to be a product of democratic dialogue, based on a sufficiently comprehensible statement, will tell me "priced" letters, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u15	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u16	I shall conclude, Mr President. In order to convince the Minister, in addition to the recent mobilisations, there will be a reintroduction of the five successors - from 1982 to today - mayors. They'll visit you to make a more detailed conversation. Thank you and I wait for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u17	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u18	Thank you for the lesson, Mrs. Kefalidou, but it's a little later. Let me say the following: Firstly, what you say is 'certified actions', I would say, is the opposite. This proposal has been launched for a long time and before it is finalised through CAS there is a need for detailed discussion with residents and all actors.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u19	But it didn't lead anywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u20	Secondly, I have met with the mayor and with a group of residents for a month and a half and we have had a very exhausting conversation. I had a second conversation with the mayor a few days ago and I'll tell you the end. At some point I said to him: 'What kind of press release do you want to get'? We also had a very constructive debate on the subject of our disagreement. I replied: "Don't find any disagreements, because there is no disagreement here. We need to clarify some things and you will see that there are no disagreements." We agreed with the mayor at that meeting that there will be a third map meeting, with Mrs. Koutalidou, which everyone appreciates for the work she has done in Veria. And despite the tensions that have been created, we want to find ourselves at the same table to see all the points at stake and understand that the proclamation of such a case like Veria will create the backwards from what you say in your question. Neither will their costs be increased nor will their land be lost value. That's right backwards. Because, as you know, if a building is adjacent - in the broadest sense - to an archaeological site and this archaeological site is absolutely visitable and Veria becomes what needs to be done, that is, a centre of global interest and global visitability, the buildings will probably gain value rather than lose. Wait till we see the last meeting we're going to have with everyone. I assure you, I'm talking to all mayors. Days ago I spoke to the mayor of Naoussa - a city next to Verea - who had nothing but to say "do to us as much as you can for archaeological sites". Then we talk again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, too. The first question will be discussed under number 135/21-10-2016 in the first cycle of the New Democracy MP Evros Anastasios Prussias Prussaki to the Minister of Finance regarding the need to integrate the Prefecture of Evros into the first climate zone for the award of the heating allowance. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Alexiadis. Mr. Treasury, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, too. Minister, you will have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank the Evros MEP, who has given me the opportunity to make very clear on the subject of heating. If someone is lured from 20.00 cards or posted on a number of "register" websites and financial newspapers, it will lead to a logic of catastrophe, as some are trying to do permanently for this government. I would therefore like to say clearly that the figures for the heating allowance are misleading and false. The Government, as in 2015, will give a heating allowance in 2016. It'll be about the same limit as last year. Last year we gave 106 million - above the budget ceiling - 105 will be set this year. We gave it more last year to cover all the cases. There was no citizen left who applied, had the criteria, and had not been compensated. So at this level, I thank you, because you give me the opportunity to clarify exactly what is going to happen with the heating allowance and say that not all of these destructive things are going to happen. I now come to the second point in my reply. I was amazed to hear - because I am used to you in a mild political speech - talking about 'harmful passages', about 'unreasonable decisions' and about a number of things.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u24	That's the truth. Why don't you want to hear it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u25	As Minister, I haven't come to Evros. I'll come to say specific things when the time comes. Don't worry about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u26	We invite you. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u27	Sure. You know my special relationships with Thrace and Evros Prefecture. But I can't accept your criticism of irrational decisions and hear that the government has joined us in the first zone. I have the corresponding FEK here, it's the FEK II 3049-16-11-2012. The Minister of Finance then wasn't me or Mr. Chakalotos. Mr Stournaras has signed this as Minister of Finance to a particular government. I say it again: November 16, 2012. With that FEK - I do not blame Mr Stournara personally, but I recall which government was then, it was not a SYRIZA government - the four climate zones were defined. Since I have been at the Ministry of Finance since 1987, I have searched my record and found that it was then made by the political leadership of the Ministry of Finance in a specific working group, so that the heating allowance could be distributed as properly as possible. This working group - I say it again, not at the SYRIZA government - divided the country into four areas on the basis of the average temperature values obtained from the National Meteorological Service - with years that it examined, from 1975 to 2004 - and on the basis of this working group - I say again, 2012 - the country was allocated to four areas. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. So any criticism of you for irrational decisions that some of you have started from Evros etc., to accept it, but you're doing it in the wrong government. We took the zones as they were, but precisely because we are interested in northern Greece and to restore injustices, three counties, i.e. the Law of Ioannina and the Serres Prefecture, we brought them up from zone II to zone I and the Magnesia Law, which was unfair to be in the same area as Attica, we uploaded him to zone II. So your criticism should probably be directed elsewhere, Mr Papoutsis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u28	Thank you. Mr. Treasury, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u29	I blame you on the occasion of the last time you said, because you included Ioannina and Serres Prefecture in the first climate zone and ignored Evros. As far as the New Democracy is concerned - I am speaking here on behalf of the New Democracy and not on my behalf - and the parties are living organizations and changing policies and correcting them, where appropriate. The New Democracy is aware that today I am asking this timely question to the Minister of Finance and I want you to correct. If you insist you will continue for the second time to be unfair and it is a shame to be unfair to you, and really do not realize that the northern county is not included in the first climate zone. That's all. There's nothing else to say. It's the northern county, the north. That's where the problem comes from. The currents of all the former Soviet Union are digging into Evros. That's not all I'm saying. Special scientists say that. There are certain reasons why the Evros Prefecture should be incorporated into the first climate zone - such as the granting of heating allowance - and you cannot ignore them. Our prefecture is long, distances from one end to another exceed 200 kilometers and temperatures vary. You must not be missed by the fact that in some areas mercury shows below zero, minus twenty degrees and beyond, with snow and ice being common phenomena mainly in central and northern Evros. Also, in the plain of Evros, in the catchment basin of the river Evros, which is the largest in south-eastern Europe, with the four bypasses, across borders, creates weather conditions of humidity and high polar ice. The same picture, with strong weather phenomena, prevails in our coastal regions. Apart from the extreme weather conditions which make it necessary to integrate the prefecture into the first climate area, there are also serious economic reasons. You know them, I don't have to tell them. Every day you deal with the economic problems of these citizens and the whole country. The result is to observe that resident fuels are supplied from our neighbouring countries and, above all, from Bulgaria, where prices are much lower and with what this entails. This picture should concern the government, unless you too are in the recent logic of the president of the OAU, with his encouragement 'go to Bulgaria'. That's not reasonable! He doesn't honor the Greek state. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. For the people of Evros, the accession, Minister, of the prefecture in the first climate area is of great importance. At a time when households have been financially pressed, and families face many problems, it was a breath to supply oil cheaper. Since you did not do what you promised of a broader development law on Evros and Samothraki, at least restore this injustice. In addition, the Ministry has committed itself to reviewing the matter in order to grant benefits in a fairer manner. All government decisions must start with Evros. I say it and believe it, because if you do not deal with the problems of Evros and especially you who have the sensitivity and come from there, the problems of Evros will not only drown us, the Hebrews, and they will drown the whole country. You understand what I mean. Every day you go to your office, the first thing you have to start is what we're going to do about Evros. There is the condom of the nation, the condom of the country, and it is wrong not to give what belongs to these people. I collect this all my way around. And you know very well that I'm turning the whole county from a village to a village. So the complaint is too big. Please, Minister, correct this policy. You cannot only include the two prefectures that you have said and the Prefecture of Evros is not in your plan. It's a shame from God! Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u30	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Parliamentary, to agree to the self-evidently that Thrace needs national unity, it needs national planning, and we all need to put aside any party controversy and see how Thrace and Macedonia and the other regions of the country, which are facing specific economic and national problems, will be at the heart of our policies. We all agree on that, and I do not think I need to add anything to it. On the subject of the zones, on the basis of which the heating allowance is granted, I answered your criticism of who made the zones. The zones were not a choice of the SYRIZA government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u32	But you made it right. Why didn't you put Evros in?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u33	I'll answer you. We in 2015, through the problems we had, did nothing but take the previous model of the heating allowance, which was in quite a successful place and try through this model to restore injustices and make some interventions. We probably had to do more. That is exactly what we are looking at this year. This year, as I have said a long time ago - and I do not come to say this now - given that it is clear that the same amount that has been allocated last year, namely 105 million, will be distributed to the citizens as a heating allowance, mainly by alleviating areas and citizens with major problems, the Ministry of Finance is reviewing the areas that will be included in these areas. And it re-examines the areas, because we have a given within a prefecture in the town that is coastal and mountainous - with temperatures that require the califer to light up in September and close in April - to have the same heating allowance. That's what we're looking at right now. You will do a little more patience, we will make the decision on the heating allowance and we will even look at breaking the prefectures in two different areas - if we can technically do so - so that we can deal with problems of different temperatures. Because the previous model predicted that all the counties would go into a zone. But we have areas within the same prefecture, as you said about the Evros Prefecture, which are completely different, with quite different temperatures, such as the southern part of the prefecture as compared to the north or lower part of the prefecture compared to the mountain. We therefore consider either whole counties moving from one zone to another - upwards, of course - either counties breaking into two sections and moving the part of the prefecture that has very low temperatures in the extra part. What I want to point out is that...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u34	That's theoretical. What are you going to do about Evros? Don't give us any theories.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u35	You're gonna be a little more patient, you're gonna make the decision...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u36	Of course, it's an announcement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u37	Going out and announcing the decision today is not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u38	That's why we came here to announce...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u39	No, Your Honour. I have no opportunity today to announce what is going to happen with the alpha or beta area.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u40	Please don't take a vacation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u41	In closing I'm saying it's clear...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u42	The problem is a big one, Mr President. They have us in the same category as the Trikala and Carditsa Prefectures. It's a shame from God! What does Evros have to do with the Trikala and Karditsa Prefectures?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u43	Please! Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u44	I think I responded, Mr Senate, that the initial distribution took place in 2012, when the government was not SYRIZA. SYRIZA and Mr Alexiadis, especially, are to blame for all the suffering in this place for the destruction of Thrace, for everything! But somewhere we have the criticism focused. As far as the heating allowance is concerned, to close and not to eat another year, I would like to say this. The heating allowance in 2016 will be fairer and more proportionate than the previous year, either with the inclusion of areas in the zone that must be or with the "supply" of areas in different zones. Thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform the House that the Secretary-General of the Government, Mrs Kaloger, has announced that they will not be debated as a result of a failure by the competent ministers and that the following topical questions will be redefined for discussion: The fifth, under number 133/18-10-2016, top-level question of the first cycle of MP in Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the management of the ‘red’ loans of the former ATEbank, in an unfair manner for its debtors, will not be discussed due to an impediment (workload) of the Minister of Finance, Mr. Tsakalotou. Furthermore, for the same reason, the fourth question under number 131/17-10-2016 of the second Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mrs.Ilia Panayotarou to the Minister of Finance will not be discussed, on the ‘legislative arrangement for extending approved expenses beyond hospitals’. The sixth question, under number 127/18-10-2016, on the problems of the accommodation of students at the University of Epirus, will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the relevant Deputy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Athanasias Anagnostopoulou, who will be outside Athens. The ninth, under number 62/10-10-2016, a topical question by Evia MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the "displacement of thirty-six thousand seven hundred, nine hundred Greek children from day-to-day stations", will not be discussed due to an impediment (interrupted obligations) of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction Mr. Kourublis. The fifth under number 96/14-10-2016 topical question from the First Vice President of the Parliament and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PAO. - P.M.A. Mr. Dimitrios Kremastinos to the Minister of Health, on the range of use of telemedicine in Greece, will not be discussed due to an impediment (workload) of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Polakis. Also, for the same reason will not be discussed the tenth question under number 85/11-10-2016 of a second question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Athanasios (Saki) Vardalis to the Minister of Health concerning the problems of the Anticancer Hospital "Theagenion" in the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki. The fourth question under number 139/25-10-2016 is the first question of the Piraeus II Piraeus of the Communist Party of Greece. Diamantos Manolakos Manolakos to the Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and National Defence, on the living conditions at the Centre for Refugees in Schisto, will not be debated because of an impediment to the MEP question. No discussion will be held, in consultation of the honourable Member with the Minister responsible, the third with number 140/25-10-2016, a topical question for the second cycle of MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Athanasios (Sakis) Vardalis to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the hundreds of eighty-eight employees of the New Karval Fertilizers factory in the Regional Unit of Kavala who have been in racing for five months. The twelfth will now be debated under number 11/3-10-2016, a topical question by MP II Thessaloniki's Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr.Georgios Arvanitides to the Minister for Economy, Development and Tourism, concerning the extension of projects under the programme "Aid for small and medium-sized enterprises active in the manufacturing, tourism, commerce and services sectors". The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Haritsis. Mr. Arvanitides, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u46	Mr President, I would also like to use my word in protagonism. Minister, I am pleased that, even with some delay, we are in a position to discuss the issue which I think is more than timely and relates to the future of several investments in the country. My question concerns the private investment of the 2007-2013 ESDP programme, which is 'air', unless they are extended to complete them. In particular, these are projects under the Programme ‘Support for small and medium-sized enterprises active in the manufacturing, tourism, commerce and services sectors’, which have not been completed by 31/12-2015. According to the information so far - and this is where the major problem arises - there is a possibility that only certified costs of the mid-term verification will be eligible and not all approved costs of the projects. This practically means that investors will stay without funding for projects that have started and will never be completed. I would remind you that in many cases the non-completion of investment projects in this programme is not due to the fault of investors but to external factors, such as the high payment of the first interim payment from the programme itself, the multiple bureaucratic delays, the inability to access the banking system, the imposition of capital controls. Let me give you a small example: There is a case where town is responding to an investor who needs to be approved by an architectural committee, which was not even set up, so that building permits can be issued four months before the project is completed. Minister, these problems are not only identified in your Ministry, or only in a programme. The issue has been dealt with by other ministries, which have been called upon to deal with similar cases. So today's debate is of greater interest. As far as I know, the Ministry of Rural Development and Food has granted an extension of completion of the projects submitted by 31/12-2015, even for an interim payment, which were considered to be the outstanding obligations of the Ministry. So it is important that you inform the House and, by extension, the citizens, who have invested thousands of euros and are struggling for your intentions. I say this because it is not possible for the State to deal with investors in a different way, depending on which Ministry the programme has gone ahead. It should therefore be absolutely clear whether there is a likelihood that only certified intermediate verification costs would be eligible and not the total approved project costs. In this case, which I personally despair, there will be 'luke', falling into semi-finished works, which will be sold at degrading prices and all at a time when our country needs investment. I want to close by recalling that the optimistic estimates of the government's financial staff, which have been reflected in the draft budget for 2017, are based basically on private investment and private consumption. We also need to think about what message we are sending on investment opportunities in the country. Therefore, Minister, the question is this: How will you deal with this issue in particular, and if you intend to extend it for the proper completion of these investment projects? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank Mr Arvanitides for his question, because he gives me the opportunity to make things clear. I am referring only to the specific programme that has been asked about. So the reality is that according to the programme's announcement - I would remind you that the programme was announced in 2013 - the end date for these private investments was 30-6-2015. So we also responded to the requests which we, of course, had received from the interested parties, and extended that date until 31 December 2015. This extension - and I want this to be clear - is the greatest possible possible in the regulatory framework of the NRP 2007-2013. This very simply means that the expenditure, which is eligible to be paid under the Regulation of the European Regional Development Fund, is those which are carried out by 31 December 2015. You have referred to your question - you have now said it orally - the case of the Rural Development Programme. The Rural Development Programme has a different regulation from the European Regional Development Fund programmes. This is therefore a regulatory commitment for us, a regulatory obligation, in relation to the costs that are eligible to be paid by the co-financed programme. If we wanted to finance expenditure that is carried out in 2016, this should be done from national resources, that is, it should be done with resources paid by the Greek taxpayer. I think we agree that this cannot be possible. This is in relation to prolongation. In relation to the second question raised in this question, if there is, that is to say, that only the certified mid-term verification expenditure is eligible, I say that it is not so. I will explain to you what is going on with the projects and how we have done and done our best to facilitate the situation. In addition, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the So we only asked them, until 31 December 2015, to give the "residents" so that we know that these projects are actively and in progress. The question of mid-term verification costs is that it does not matter whether we are talking about mid-term verification or final audit. Any expenditure may be paid until 31 December 2015. In 2016, however, we did everything possible to enable these projects to be completed, of course, without the use of public funds. We modified the original plan. We gave the third amendment of the original plan until 28 February 2016. We then extended until 20 May 2016 for the requests for final verification of the completion of the investment, to those who made this amendment, and to the others until 15 April 2016. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I'm going to need some tolerance, Mr. President, please. When the audit carried out in the last few months revealed that the project has not been completed but that it is possible to complete, we were giving the margin - and we are even giving it - up to the 'and five' deadline, that is to say, by the end of 2016, to complete the project in order to keep the projects incomplete. I would also like to say that for the authorisation, we have ensured the maximum possible extension until 31 December 2016. However, since you have also referred to the issues relating to delays in the programme, I would like to say that, on the basis of what I have just said, we have given you all the possible extensions provided for in the programme regulation. While Capital Controls I think it is not related to this case, as the obligation of the investors was to complete their investments under the programme on 30 June 2015 before, that is, the imposition of capital controls. What I think politically is something very important and I think we should agree with each other is that we should not repeat these mistakes of the past. This is why in the new NRP, the NRP 2014-2020, which we are putting forward for the selection of projects, is the maturity of these proposals, because we want projects which can be completed within the planned programming of programmes and not have works - 'gulls' - as has been done many times in the past and in the case of the projects to which you refer - which can never be completed. We are therefore counting on maturity. We are also trying to strengthen funding, because as you have rightly said in your question, in 2013 the funding, the advance payment of these projects has been delayed and the implementation of them has been delayed. We have created the trusted account, so that we can fund much faster than in the past with these types of projects. We believe that, with these assimilations and these measures we have taken, we can in the new programming period move towards investment, which is, in fact, important investments in the private economy, so that the Greek economy can return to growth, but which will, in fact, be integrated and produce multiplier effects for the Greek economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Arvanitides, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u50	I do not want to add anything, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u51	You don't want to. You made use of the first year. Mr. Undersecretary, I think you have nothing more to say, since Mr. Arvanitides is not a second-guesser. The second question, with number 141/25-10-2016, will be discussed with the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the planning for the urban transport of Athens and the timetable for the signing of contracts by the Ministry of Labour for the Movement of RES and vulnerable groups for 2016. The current question will be answered by the State Secretary Marina Chrysovelonis. Please have the floor, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, all the elements for the closure of 2015 and 2016 to date show that the urban transport of Athens, essentially at Attica, is a dead end, and that is not because they do not have the potential to be surplus but because of governmental decisions, few and deadlocks. In 2015 the deficit was EUR 117 million. For 2016 it is expected that this deficit, with the optimistic scenarios of the Ministry and the Agency, will be EUR 77 million, and in reality it will be closed with more, because today we can even appreciate it from the eight-month figures. I say, therefore, that this deadlock in the Athens transport is the responsibility of the government, because instead of improving the capacity of transport, so that we can have the collection, instead of each ministry fulfilling the obligations of the OSCE, the Ministry of Transport and Networks comes in and increases the ticket and at the same time leaves the whole system of urban transport and, in particular, buses in their luck, thereby continuously increasing the buses which are out of activity. So what we are asking today is, firstly, when the Ministries will fulfil their obligations towards OSCE, due to the transfer of pupils, vulnerable groups, disabled and unemployed people. In particular, for the second half of 2015, the Ministry of Labour owes EUR 29.5 million for the disabled. Only for disabled persons is due for 2016 EUR 65 million and contracts have not yet been signed, while ending in 2016. In particular, for the unemployed, Mr. Spirtzis has considered OSCE as his own tool and says: "Remove the unemployed - very well up here - but I do not pay." The 'I'm not paying' and the free you're saying and it's over, because you're going to finish the agencies. You have to fulfil the state's obligations vis-à-vis the OSCE. Payment due on the movements of the unemployed. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. The State Secretary, Mrs Chrysosvelloni, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Papoutsis, indeed, the question you are asking me is very interesting, since, unfortunately, you are mentioning some elements that are inaccurate and that is even greater interest, because we all know that you have been the State Secretary for Labour and Social Security from September 2010 to June 2011. Why do I mention that there is inaccurateness in any of the evidence you present? According to the European System of Accounts, I am referring to ESA 95, which has been tracking the OSCE group since 2013 by the Ministry of Finance, as well as the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, the deficit in Athens' urban transport for 2015 has in no way reached the sum of EUR 100 million, which you mentioned in your question or the EUR 117 million that you now mentioned, but at EUR 37 million. This is the result of the accounting figures of the group's companies, which at any time you want to check, will be happy to be made available to you. I take the view that you refer to the obligations presented by the OSH on 31-12-2015. But completely artificially I can't think that could be because of ignorance. Make a confusion of accumulated deficits with functional deficits. Both the OSH and SSH are well known, that there are unpaid obligations of previous years, which, Mr Papoutsis, we inherited from you. In no case shall I mention the following obligations to key suppliers. For example, PPC owes 58 million, PPC 18 million, insurance funds of about 9 million. That's what we inherited from you. However, I must point out that the EUR 77 million you mentioned now and mention in your question is not optimistic scenarios, as you say, but an approved target, which has been set by the Ministry of Finance in the respective group for the year 2016. But the accounting figures for the eight-month period of 2016 that have been put in mind - and you can certainly check - show that the operational deficit of the OSCE group companies has been set at EUR 31 million and the losses of eight months have been made at EUR 34 million. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] Please, a little tolerance in time, Mr President. So we see that there is a 44% percentage of the annually approved target and, as it turns out, it will close to a much better result. As far as the signing of contracts with the Ministry of Labour on movements of vulnerable social groups is concerned, either freely or at reduced tariffs, i.e. for movements of small and medium-sized enterprises and of luxuries, I would like to inform you that the respective conventions are already in the Court of Auditors and once the audit is finished, they will be followed by their signature. In this context, the price policy that we are pursuing and which is currently being implemented in urban transport, I will tell you very sincerely that it is the lowest in Europe. Of course in this environment, the reduced EUR 0.60 ticket and the EUR 30 monthly card used by vulnerable social groups have not increased and have remained at the same level. Unfortunately, I have exhausted my prototype, to give you a more general overview, given that you put things in the history of your question, so necessary for the design that we will then follow and which we have already begun to implement in urban transport, I will reply, Mr Papoutsis, to the second part of my position.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u55	Answer me, why did you take him time? We've got one all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u56	I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u57	Please! Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u58	Mr President, what we have heard from Mrs Chrysovelloni is, in fact, the creative accounting of a government, which wants to present the white one. If that were the case, it would be a good thing for economics, as you say, and with the funds owed by the ministries of 2015 the agency is making a surplus. So, with a surplus of money, you're entitled to make an increase in the ticket? Tell us now! You're right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u59	Finish and I'll answer you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u60	So all you said is a creative accounting. Only the Ministry of Labour owes 29.5 million since the second half of 2015. For 2016, he has not yet signed contracts. We are now told by Mrs Chryssovelloni that she is at the Court of Auditors. When? In November 2016? Look at 2014 when the contracts were signed. Are cards issued for 2016 for disabled persons? None! You come here and instead of responding with a dose of self-criticism, you tell us with courage that our evidence is wrong? You're not telling me, if that was the case, why are there no bus parts? Why, instead of the thirty - eighty - eighty buses that were circulating in 2014, now only nine hundred and thirty - eight are available? Why do you take spare parts off one bus to make the others? Alas, if he digs a tire in one of the buses. Immediately there is the smuggling of spare parts, to get into other buses, because they do not pay suppliers, there are no spare parts, and this means that the number of decommissioned buses is constantly increasing. All you've told us is an excuse that doesn't stand. You could, as I told you, do your self-criticism. The total public obligations are, in fact, quite large. I told you some numbers. There is also a further claim for 2015. I believe that you are using OSCE as a policy tool without paying, as Mr Spirtz does, who considers that only in Attica there are unemployed, Mr President. There's nowhere else in Greece. He ordered - precisely this phrase used - the OSCE to transfer the unemployed, but without giving their money. Oh, no. A provision by Mr Spirtzi himself has been passed on to L.4337, which says that the Ministries are obliged to pay for the services performed by the OSCE, and for the transport of vulnerable groups that do and do not fulfil, the Ministry is warned that the project will be stopped. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The project must not be stopped because it concerns vulnerable social groups of disabled, elderly. We mustn't get out and get off the buses the disabled. We must bring down the Minister who does not respect his commitments, and in this regard the Minister of Labour or anyone else is making the fool. So I tell you to leave the excuses. Apply the law and, above all, implement a plan, which I asked you to tell us, but you did not tell us. Tell us what's going on with the telematics and online ticketing program. Is it going to continue what saw the light of publicity, that is to say install telematic and electronic ticket systems on buses that are decommissioned or are going in a few days for scrap? Is that possible? Mr President, I would like some time to finish. I'll testify some photographs on the Minutes, showing that the telematics and electronic ticket systems are installed on buses going for withdrawal. This disgrace must be stopped either by modifying the contract, if necessary, or by maintaining buses and making them circulate in order to place all these systems. All this must be done, always on the basis of the criterion of safeguarding the public interest. The company cannot say "I had to put so many machines and put them on any buses even without tyres". You'll see the photos to convince you about the matter. We even have a burned bus on which the telematics system has been installed. Is that possible? Here we come to a contradiction. It could have been possible for the organization, if the Ministry had given the appropriate importance, to have that revenue so that the maintenance of buses can make the OSCE and the revenues are quite large, so no state subsidies would have needed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u61	Finish, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u62	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying what I said about the rest of the country. The Ministry of Labour must, of course, ask Mr Spirtzis first to do so by the Ministry of Labour - and to pay the 50 million per year for the transfer of the unemployed, but also to pay the money corresponding to the transfer of the unemployed to the rest of the country. It is not a second and third category of unemployed in the rest of the country, and since this time the state is completely indifferent to them. In conclusion, I would like to say that the OSCE itself says by letter that the Ministry of Labour does not fulfil its obligations. I'm not saying it! The OSCE numbers are here! The figures I told you about the deficits are one of the official figures from the project budget. Here is Mr.4337 - who I am tabling - who says that the ministries are obliged to fulfil their obligations regarding the transport of people belonging to vulnerable groups. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Here, Madam Secretary, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u64	Mr Pinheiro, you have charged us with a number of things, which are, of course, unfounded and completely inaccurate. However, I see no sign of self-criticism for what you inherited us from your side. I mentioned this before with very specific figures, but that is why I have not heard any responses and any counter-projects from your side. Because your question refers to the government planning for urban transport, I would like to tell you that this design is already in full progress. In particular, in your question - but you have obviously forgotten about it - the extension of the metro line that is being promoted and which will undoubtedly lead to the dismantling of high-mobility stations and the service of a larger number of passengers, but also of areas. Apart from the extension of Line 3, the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks and the "ATITITIC METRO" are compiling all the necessary studies needed for the new Line 4 of Athens. The procedure is to be carried out and proceed by means of a partial tender in five phases. If you are tracking the news, on 25 September the implementation and tendering was announced as a priority of the first section that goes from Alsus Veku - Goudi with fourteen stations. At the same time, the extension of the tram is going on in Piraeus.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u65	I haven't asked about the subway.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u66	Since, however, you are asking about our planning for urban transport, you will listen to the design as a whole and not as you delineate it. Be patient. At the same time, then, the expansion of the tram from Nea Faliro to the centre of Piraeus, the subjugation of Line 1 in the section of Nea Faliro - Piraeus and the extension of the tram to Keratini and Perama. Furthermore, the strategy of speaking is being implemented, which, as you can see, will give a very positive sign to urban transport with better coordination and a collection of services. Therefore, this will help save resources. Equally important work that helps to restructure the Athens transport landscape is the telematics, which you mentioned, which has the very broad acceptance of the passenger audience. Although, as I would say, the importance of telematics has been undermined and undermined by PPPs, the installation of equipment on two thousand buses and trolleybuses and a thousand smart stops to monitor the transport project in real time, but also, of course, to inform the public about the implementation of the services. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] Mr President, please, for a while your tolerance. Also at the beginning of 2017 is the launch of the electronic ticket which, as you can see, will lead to an increase in revenue, while helping to combat the evasion of tickets and, of course, to better service the public and, of course, to the safety of passengers. The process via PPP is progressing perfectly normally within a planned timescale and you will soon be able to see the positive results of this application as well. All these activities I have mentioned are, among other things, the following objective: to save resources. And if we combine the resources that will be saved with the financial instruments provided, you can understand that they will lead to future investments, such as the renewal of the fleet, to which you have referred in your question. In the same spirit, the upgrading of Athens' transport is part of the process, Mr. MEP, and the recruitment of a hundred and sixty people to the OSCE and seven hundred and fifty-three people to the OSCE, a process that has been completed. In conclusion, all these actions, which I mentioned, actually lead to the transformation of the public transport system into Athens, so that we can focus on the better service of the passenger, in a more economic way by also giving a very important signal to the issue of the environmental footprint. As regards the hints you have made on the telematics part, there are buses that are deported or damaged, so I would like to say to you, as you know, that telematics is a project that has been launched on your own agenda. Where the telematics is to be installed was designated by the U.S.S., because the U.S.S. gave us the data. However, as you can see, because telematics is a project that is alive, there is no possibility, when a bus has at any rate been crashing or burning, as you said in your question, to withdraw telematics, because this bus is expected to return to safe transport conditions and if this is not possible, there is the possibility of the whole system being transferred to other buses. Therefore, do not try to create false impressions. And of course, do not try to transfer the burden of your own responsibilities to the present government, which does everything possible to enable public transport to be made safe.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u67	It's disgraceful, disgraceful!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u68	I am referring to public transport, because you have done what you have done in your power to deceive them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u69	Thank you. We move to the second with No 137/21-10-2016 topical question of the First Circuit Halkidiki of the People's League - Golden Dawn and Salvation Vlacho to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the immediate closure of borders, guard by the Armed Forces and a referendum on the illegal immigration issue, will not be discussed due to the lack of responsibility of the Ministry. Competent Ministry is the Ministry of National Defence. We continue in the eighth question under number 61/10-10-2016 of a second question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity regarding the calculation of the main pensions of the Naval Abstract Fund (NAT). The timely question will be answered by the State Secretary, Mr Petropoulos. Here, Mr. Kouzele, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u70	Thank you very much, Mr President. On 1 August 2016, Minister, the competent bodies were notified of the definition of the procedure for the capture of NAT’s assets and financial reserves, which will be incorporated into the single social security body from 1 to 1 August 2016. The problem is the Ministry's commitment. And you told my oldest timely question about LOLEN that you will try to look at self-interest in not joining the special body and that it will remain autonomous because it is a fund with many peculiarities. However, some other problems have arisen along the way, such as the method of calculating pensions, which is essential. And the information says that right now they don't know how to calculate, they can't pay pensions to the NAT, because they don't know how to calculate them. There's this problem. Actually, how will the main pension be calculated - why are we talking about NAT's main pension? Secondly, is compensation in the calculation of NAT’s pensions and, if not, why not? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u71	Please have the floor, Mr. Petropoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. The commitments to manage the account you said remain integer, just as I said months ago. In particular, for our seafarers, I would remind you that we maintained those provisions that keep age limits where they were before Law 3436. I am talking about those seafarers who fall under the provisions of Article 14(1) to (3) of the AD 1913/78, so that there is no confusion as to what that means. We also maintained the level of contributions, so that there would be no reduction, but that it would be at a high level with the differentiations provided for in No. 973/1978, because it matters whether the vessel is a drinker, if it is a small tanker, the remuneration laid down in the contracts for matching the service on the relevant ship. Of course we have taken into account the fact that seafarers will also have the part of the national pension in determining their pensions together with the payroll, which is determined by the level of contributions, which, as I said, we did not change and which remains with the differentiations of the boats at the level we say, which were in place before. Therefore, the return is maintained in full. It is true that we are working on the relevant circulars, because the NAT system is complicated and because it comes in a uniform way through the computer systems that will apply to EVC in calculating pensions, with the differentiations, and I repeat, which are particularly complex here, it requires particular processing and attention and these have not been completed. However, they will be completed in the near future and will certainly be able to work much sooner, because they will be able to test all of this. Do not impress you that this document was sent on August 1st. It's not just NAT. He was sent to all the agencies, just because he has to see what property he's starting with. This calculation takes into account the specific features of the maintenance of NAT for non-pensional functions as we have said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u73	Thank you. Please, Mr Kuzelle, you have the floor again for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u74	The problem - and I stress it again - is that at the moment no one knows how the pension is to be calculated. With the Katougalu law? As calculated so far for everyone else will be valid for NAT? That is the main question. What will apply to everyone else will apply to NAT? That's the basic thing. Why, with twenty-three years, - and we do not add increases, 26% (n.2932/2001 FEK 145) - with a basic salary of 3,000 mixed by a Greek master, how much pension will he receive? Simple question? And his reservations are about 1,000 euros. Since it's rewarding, what pension will it get in twenty-three years? We must not forget that this is a guaranteed right by the Greek seafarer for his pension. The collective agreements speak of'specialized, heavy and unhealthy occupation'. Also, after the famous PSI, which NAT lost 50% of its reserves, what will happen? And there's a black hole in NAT. All this is very concerned about all those who are retired. I will give you a very simple example: those who have gone over the past few days to take their pensions have seen others cut off the subsidiary, others cut off the main pension, and they have all said why the main pension is being cut. That was the problem that was created and there is a disturbance at the moment. I do not hide from you that through NAT all the acquaintances, all the friends we're talking about are: "We don't know how it will be calculated. Here comes the world and what are we going to tell them? And to whomever has the main pension now been cut over the last three months and whoever has to get more money what will he do? Will he get them back?" I would again point out that the issue is how it will be calculated. May I make a proposal to you: next week you will be coming, make a announcement and say: first example, with twenty-three years - I told you, do not put 15% and 25%, i.e. increments with the years of the maritime service - what pension is it going to get? All levels, all categories, so all people can get out of here and calm down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u75	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. When a circular is issued, it will all be clear. Not published yet. And of course, today, they do not know at NAT how this pension will come out, because the cycle in question has not been issued. What we will take into account, however, in the preparation of the circular, is the specificities of the maritime profession, the reduced time of insurance relating to the profession, as is particularly the case in the waterway vessels and in the large tankers and in a number of other categories. Therefore, there we need to measure some factors so that the pension issued does not have a divergence unjustified in relation to the specificities, I repeat, which has the profession of a seafarer. Take into account that we have kept age limits down. They didn't grow up for seafarers. Consider that the contributions paid to seafarers are maintained with the specific characteristics of a vessel in which the seafarer serves and precisely because there is a differentiation in the contribution, this increased amount of contribution, which is actually increased compared to others, will be taken into account for the increase in the pension. So we will have a reward in the case of seafarers that is not the one that will apply to other insured persons. It will be differentiated, it will be more favourable, in relation to the years and the rates of replacement laid down by the law, taking into account these parameters. These parameters have not been completed in the processing that is now being done. When it is done, it will be clear, and we will actually have pensions, which for our seafarers will ensure a decent level of life, taking into account the national pension they will also receive. I have to tell you that about 1 billion is the amount paid each year from the State's cash to boost seafarers' pensions. This amount is too high. But we need to look at the needs of seafarers, not in a way of accounting, accounting, what it costs, but in a way that really boosts the creative aspects of the system, so that we can have better pensions. We estimate that we will have a brave support and involvement of state funding in the system, and in this context we will better organise the funds available to improve pension benefits to seafarers as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, too. We're on our way to number...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u78	Excuse me. Wait a minute. A clarification, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u79	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u80	The main pension has been reduced in recent months...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u81	There was no main pension reduction in anyone at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u82	I assure you. My father's down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u83	For main pension.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u84	I'm telling you, first pension.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u85	I am not speaking for reasons other than tax or other reasons, but a reduction in the calculation of the main pension has not been done and will not be done under any circumstances.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u86	I'm telling you, I can tell by my father.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u87	The sum of all the institutions is also budgeted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u88	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u89	If there's been a mistake, let's see. But it's gonna be wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u90	I told you, three months are now cutting off my father's main pension, not the subsidiary.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u91	The history of reductions or reductions in pensions is an enigma to be resolved. He's on the news every day.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u92	Mr President, all right, it's clear. Truly, because things are very complicated, there can also be a mistake. If it's happened, we'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u93	Thank you. We move to the eleventh, with number 94/14-10-2016, a topical question for the second-round question by the Member of Parliament, Mr Spyridonos-Adonidos Georgiades, to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the "provocative" mood of 5,4 cm. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous financial years under Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 and Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. The Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks will respond, Mr. Spirtzis. Please, Mr Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u94	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, my question was written, as you know. I'm not an expert on technical projects, as you are obviously. However, those which gave me a series of engineers who came to my office to explain this matter to me, seem to me extremely unbelievable. I say this quickly, so that the viewers who will see when Parliament's channel shows our debate on this issue, what it is all about. You are issuing a two-service contract notice to update two conditions. In particular: ‘Programming guide, contents and estimated fees of vapor drainage and hydraulic transport operations’ and ‘Guide of preparation, contents and estimated fees of studies of vaporisation and hydromastisation works’. For these updates of technical specifications you commit 5.4 million from national resources. Again, 5.4m euros. There is, of course, the first question: why did it not go to the NSRF? This is a technical question, which I imagine you will explain about easily. The main reason why I asked the question, however, is why these people have explained to me that this work which you are asking for, today on the market, Mr President, told me '50 grand, violence'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u95	You say a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u96	If I say a lot more than that. So there's the trick that's going on, he says, on the street: they're informed five, they're gonna make a fine 90% discount, the Minister's gonna go out and say "we've got all 550 grand" and they're gonna share 500. I'm telling you, they just told me. Although it's known that I don't have a lot of appreciation for the...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u97	What are you talking about? Mr President, for God's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u98	And I've told the House that before. About Attica Bank we had the conversation...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u99	Are you serious? Rescind!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u100	I'm talking about Attica Bank.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u101	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u102	Mr. Georgiadis, the descriptions don't need to be made.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u103	I didn't say anything. I said I didn't trust you. He can convince me. What's the problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u104	Please delete the designation from the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u105	Do I have to be trusted? When I see that the engineers' money at ATTICA BANK has been lost?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u106	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u107	When the time comes, you will explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u108	Anytime.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u109	When the time comes. Where it'll all be explained.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u110	Please, no designations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u111	Where I have to explain it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u112	We're not forgetting anything, you know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u113	I don't forget either.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u114	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u115	We're not forgetting anything! And how he lost the fund you represented, we don't forget.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u116	Please, the characterizations create acidity. Please delete the designation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u117	Well, I asked the question in writing because I expected you to answer me technically in writing. I say'may be unfair to people, it may be excessive'. So my first question is why you did not answer me in writing. Or was it so hard to tell your service that 'you know, a Member of Parliament asks me about this technical project, write the answer to give it to him'? Why did the deadline have to be extended, to make it timely, to not be able to come here the first time, and the second time, on a subject that you will obviously be telling us is purely technical? So my question is how is 5.4 million justified? I will submit for the Minutes - because the President was disturbed before - your decision to make twenty-one updates to a similar project, to which you committed 27 000. Please, I'm tabling this for the Minutes, because you've made me ironic that 50 is too much. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] You yourself committed 27 thousand updates. Now for two updates of 5.5 million. I'm not saying, you'll explain it to us. Since we're on the news, since you're a very good friend of Mr. Papa, were you, too, in Venezuela with Mr. Artemios and offshore? For today, Mr President, we have learned that Mr. Papapas was sent from Mr. Tsipras in 2013 in Venezuela. He says he went for exchanging agricultural products with the Bolivarian democracy, but with him he had not taken any of SYRIZA's agricultural sector, he had taken a lawyer offshore. And I say, since Mr. Pappas is your good friend, if you can enlighten us about the trip to Venezuela, about the role of Mr. Artemios, which SYRIZA generally does not answer. And I saw before that you were electric with my comment. Don't get too hot, because a lot will come to the fore in the days ahead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u118	Minister, the designation is deleted. I would ask you, if it is deleted, not to have a debate on this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u119	It is not possible to delete Mr Georgiadis' designations every time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u120	Deleted. You are obliged, under the Rules of Procedure, to answer the question. For everything else you don't have to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u121	I will answer the question and answer everything else. I want here publicly to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u122	Please don't be acidic. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u123	The first thing I will answer is Mr Georgiadis' question, which concerns why I did not answer in writing. I didn't answer on purpose. To come here, Mr. Georgiadis, and show up the lousy, muddy, distorting way you ask each time for any matter. At the same time, of course, you say: 'I am not a technical expert. Some engineers went through my office and told me." Why didn't they object to the specifications of the contest? Is it a competition that took place in secret or was made by direct assignment or by a rough competition, as many New Democracy officials have done in the past, and have they ended up in the courtrooms and have they made decisions? But it is good, Mr President, to say so, so that we can see each other's morality and what it says in Parliament and outside of it. We have here - and I answer the President, because that is where I have to answer, that is the seriousness - really a very great distortion. We have d.d.696/74, which is a good thing for technical studies. Does it include all categories of studies? Oh, no. Does he have any modern standards? Oh, no. So what have we been living for all these years? It has been about forty-two years, everything has changed in technical regulations and science, and we are living to entrust studies to do so, without knowing what Regulations, what modern specification and all the rest. How did the estimated remuneration of these tenders come out, namely the remuneration of the budget? Mr. Sufflia's law. Neither does the Minister put nor does the agency put what it wants. Done in 2005. How can these prices be revised? Only if we have specific modern standards, which will have reason to say that these scientific man-hours are needed in these studies and therefore have a code of estimated wages, which will not lead to distortions, both in relation to the quality of the studies and in relation to pay. Second one. This is the budget price, it is not the contract. There, therefore, the New Democracy has achieved 80%, 85%, 90%, 92% reductions in the estimated fees of studies from what it has committed and from what it serves, with an obvious effect on the quality of the studies and then on the cost of the projects. We should normally have been indicted, Mr President, because we have not made any other accusations, but unfortunately, the Ministry's finances are not so blooming to make for the twenty-nine categories of studies, the same one. There is the following example, which the honourable Member says, which asks: Well you have commissioned - and this is the comparison, that is the nice thing - a contract and you have committed to 27,000 - it was finally awarded with 23,985 VAT, that is 27,000 - the update of twenty-one Greek technical specifications for plumbing works, which were specifications for the construction of works, not studies. I shall say some titles, let alone be understood, because many in the Chamber are legal: 'Strengthening with an insurance film', 'Group draining with geosynthetic leaves'. The subject of this contract was a number of verbal interventions - corrections to the text published in the FEK 2221B/30-7-2012 under the IPAD number 273/17-7-2012 decision of the Deputy Minister for Development, Competitiveness, Infrastructure, Transport and Networks Mr Kalogannis on the subject: ‘Application of 440 Greek Technical Specifications EIF with compulsory application to all public projects’. This was done by the Institute of Construction, which was then destroyed by the terrible New Democracy government and is not even a tool. The two contracts which will take place when the international competition is completed concern the preparation of design specifications. In particular, it concerns plumbing studies on elevation works, irrigation works, drainage works, induction works, hydromastization works, dams, lakes, omega drainage projects, demarcations, anti-military, torrential torrential projects, etc., rehabilitation works on internal networks, collectors, 'green' ombre management policies, hydraulic transport works, sewerage of transport projects, external basins, road tunnels. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] For most of these categories in our country there are no specifications at present, so each department or individual scholar, as he suits him each time, prescribes them. These contracts have not yet been made because they are in the evaluation phase. We're in the competitive process. These are tendering contracts made with Law 3316/2005. They're international competitions. Two months have been published in the European Commission, on its page, in the Ministry, in the Technical Chamber, and because they are being asked, there are unanimous opinions from the relevant bodies, there are documents from other ministries and special secretaries, such as the Special Secretariat for Water, which at some point wants serious studies to be made in the anti-military works or in the projects we have to deal with torrentially. Here it is - and must have been sent to you - the issue of the estimated fee and how it was calculated. We'll testify these for them to exist. Here's why he got out of this standard and quality service and not someone else. Work is being done in the services on the design specifications. It's heavy work, too heavy work. It's a pity we don't have any money in all the twenty-nine charges to get out of this to stop the distortions we have. Here is the position of BSE, the Association of Study Offices, here is a pole of TEE Days in various unsuspecting times from 1974 to today and here are the PTSDs you say, to have a comparison. This is the deliverable work of all the RDPs. We compare that to a library. In one we need forty days, and in the other we want two years to do so, in accordance with the standards we have.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u124	Minister, because you have a second language, I would ask you to complete it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u125	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u126	Let him go, Mr. President. Don't cut him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u127	Mr. Georgiadis, please. Let us handle the time. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u128	You probably haven't followed the previous conversation, but you're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u129	Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u130	Let's go get them, or you'll drive me crazy. First of all, Minister, you started by saying that you did not respond on purpose to deal with the lasagna. I mean, be careful what you're saying. You preferred not to answer in writing, so you wouldn't get any news if what I'm asking is reasonable or not, so that I can understand what you're saying, but to show how much sludge I am, you preferred to ask it timely, overcoming all the time definitions. Why, Minister, did you not put them under the office so that someone could take a phone to my office and say 'do the timely' and all the parliamentary deadlines had to be exhausted and we could once postpone the timely question why couldn't you come? So I think that if you did what you said, you have been very uncooperative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u131	And you in collegiality!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u132	A simple call from the beginning, and he wouldn't have brought us here a month and a half ago, so you wouldn't have any sadness. But what did you answer? Listen, Mr President, what he said. First part: ‘It is not my fault to commit EUR 5.5 million. The bad Souflias and the old presidential decree are to blame for making me commit these sums. And the bad New Democracy that gave 92% discounts and the previous ones from me who are now in court!" First of all, I note first: When I said before that I question your moral formation, you flew over. Rightly! I accept that if someone insults you, you should be thrown away, and I consider it a health sample on your part. You're not telling me who you're referring to? Tell what are the names of the New Democracy that have done these things. Why are you generally telling the New Democracy? I say this for the following reason, Minister. Here you want to present yourself as the new one. You pascoon since the 1980s, arch-pascoe since the 1980s, all the tricks of PASOK since the 1980s, will now be doing lessons in New Democracy and Soflia! I'd also tell you to ask your late State Secretary, who at the time of Souflija was in New Democracy. What do you think? At the time you were in New Democracy, Souflias and New Democracy smiling? And now you're working with the guy you're saying Souflias and the New Democracy are smiling, why did you find them in the chairs? Is that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u133	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u134	It's yours. It's yours. She's wearing SYRIZA's shirt to stand out, but she's an old-fashioned pussy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u135	I'm there!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u136	There. You're obviously there. Don't be new to us. Because that's terrible! All the tricks!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u137	You're doing good!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u138	So, to understand, this project that "the evil Souflias and the old bad presidential decree of '74 commits you to take it out to 5.4 million euros" how much do you think will finally be awarded? To come after, when the contract is made, see if what you will pay is what has to be paid or more. That's what I expect you to tell me. But I'm telling you, if it's over 50,000, don't give it. I'll meet you guys with 50,000 to do what you're saying! Now, in a strange way, Minister, even though you have said so much and so much on the subject of topicality and your friend, Mr Pappas, you have said nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u139	In my second speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u140	Oh, now, very good. Because you know - and I repeat - that the issue now is that we went to Venezuela with Mr Artemios - a lawyer specialising in offshore - to shop, says, from the supermarkets of Chaves and Maduro. Honestly, a more funny excuse than the one Mr. Pappas said today on the show by Mr. Nikos Hadjikolaou I have never heard of! What did he say, Mr President, to close? He said that the then leader of the opposition officer Alexis Tsipras - who was not yet a prime minister, would - send his right hand, Mr. Poppa, to Venezuela to investigate the trade in agricultural products when he became a prime minister. But it didn't do that with him with the heads of SYRIZA's agricultural policy, but a lawyer from Cyprus who specializes only in offshore and nothing else - now, because they would pass the villas and radish and hay through offshore, I don't know - and this - watch out! - while the newspaper "PRODUCT TYPES" has been asking him for so long to answer whether or not they know Mr. Artemio and Mr. Spirtzi's friend, Mr. Papas, who is the island. This in the new Greek means he's making the duck. Tell us, Mr. Spirtzi, if you know why your friend, Mr. Poppas, took with him to Venezuela the offshore lawyer, Mr. Artemio. Does he know him more? Now that Mr. Artemio's entering the Maximus Hall and we've seen pictures, they've been having an affair since then? Because he told us that Mr. Artemio went for a big project, for a big investment. Let's hear this, and let's keep it in mind, and how we'll finally pay, since the 5.4 million have agreed that it's a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u142	Three minutes, and according to the Rules of Procedure, like the questioner, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u143	But the question is not about Mr Artemio, about the position of Mr Georgiadis or your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u144	Yes, but you haven't interrupted anyone, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u145	I must also take care of the issue that we are discussing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u146	I see it, but with regard to the government, not with regard to the Vice-Presidents. Firstly, it was even understood by Mr Georgiadis that we need to have technical standards of study, because he did not address it in his secondary speech. Secondly, I did not say about the 'bad' presidential decree of 1974. I said it was good news. I didn't say that Mr. Soufflias was bad for the Code of Preferred Remuneration. Where I say that Mr Soufflias is bad, I say he is happy, in relation to the motorway conventions, but not for that. It could of course be done better if we had - that is what I said - a regulation of estimated wages and standards, in order to calculate pay according to the current standards. And that's what we're going to do. And that, believe me, doesn't make either 10,000 or 50 000. Ask who you want to be relevant. Furthermore, from the questions you put in your speech, I understand very well that you would not have had any problem if we did not make specifications for the anti-military works, the escudos and all the rest, and we made standards of communist prisoners. Thank you for your new Republic and its Vice President. In fact, in 1980 I was 11 years old, PASOK, a worshiper of Andreas Papandreou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u147	Tell Mrs. Chrysosvelloni.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u148	He knows.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u149	Look at your own development!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u150	I would like to thank you for the designation of 'an unsubstantiated'. But don't be you today, not when you were 11 years old, generic of Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u151	I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u152	Don't be here today about what you're saying about the communist generosity of the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u153	Mr President, on personal grounds!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u154	And we're going to the engineers' fund that you said in your first talk and in Venezuela. Be careful, Mr. Georgiadis. We do not accept threats. Anytime you want for the Engineering Fund. Be careful not to put any of your own prisons in prison alone. Watch out, because yours will go to jail! And we're going to Venezuela. In fact, I see no sabotage to discuss with a country that has a food problem in relation to the exchange of products. It's very common in international practice. To take, let's say, Greece oil and give agricultural products. Now, because it was chosen at that time to accompany Nikos Pappa, the particular lawyer you say, I imagine the gentlemen you order in various countries with wigs can inform you. It is not the first time that you are watching where the SYRIZA and the Government are going and who and how you present them. Thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u156	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u157	Mr. Georgiades, because you mentioned your name alone, but please, a clarification, an observation, not a long time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u158	I'll just be a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u159	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u160	First of all, I would ask you to delete from the Minutes what you have said. The State Secretary may inform you. I have condemned Mr Panagiotis Kammenos at first instance to EUR 15 000-20,000 - I do not remember exactly the amount - for trying to identify myself with the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u161	Can you stop referring to people who are not here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u162	There's a conviction. Please withdraw it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u163	Do not use the Step to report people who are not here right now and throw mud!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u164	But it's a fact. There's a conviction. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u165	Finish it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u166	And you, Minister, don't take the floor. Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u167	For God's sake now!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u168	Let me finish. Contrary to what you want, but because I do not think that political controversy should take place in the courts and because I am being brutally offended, I will tell you what I have said and if you want to correct it. I never said they'd put the communists in jail. Never. I'm a liberal politician.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u169	Yes, I can see it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u170	I want everyone to be able to say their opinion. I'm not like you. You, your government, went to blackmail court to overthrow the outcome of the PCC plenary session. We know, we found out, all Greece knows. I said what is true in some Eastern countries. Do you want us to agree together that it's wrong? Let me tell you something wrong. But it's not mine. It is true in these countries for their own historical reasons. I would ask you, therefore, to withdraw what you said because I am being brutally offended. And I repeat, I have already condemned a Minister of Government Tsipras for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u171	What does that mean, "I have condemned"? You're a judge?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u172	The court, ma'am.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u173	You have a great match with justice!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u174	Madam Minister, please. Minister, will you answer that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u175	What can I say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u176	What he's asking you to do. If you say you're retracting, it's over. If you say "I'm not rescinding", he'll see what Mr. Georgiadis will do. But let's go further. We have parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u177	He doesn't call it off.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u178	Of course not.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u179	Even though you've been informed. That, you know, is grim.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u180	We continue with the thirteenth third with number 122-18-10-2016 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks regarding the tram and metro projects in Piraeus. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes to begin with.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u181	Thank you very much, Mr President. I do not know if there is so much interest in the previous debate outside the questions, but I will go to the point, because we in Piraeus have a huge issue with the two major metro projects. They are breathtaking projects, infrastructure projects for tourism, for citizens, for shops, for the economy both tram and the metro on both lines. However, in recent years, on the basis of the notice of the project principle, too much delays have been observed. I do not support the fact that these delays - at least as far as I know and will be asked about this - are made for reasons of absurd or irregular or possibly, as a wicked person will say, in order to earn more money or to make overpriceds. They have been, because they have been anciently found - I note it - in a very low depth, in about one and a half meters in King George. Also, the metro issue is very important. And this has been delayed, as others say for two and others for three years, and it is likely to pull more. Same goes for tram. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will return to my denture on some important issues for neighbourhoods and tourism. Minister, we would like to learn from you as a matter of urgency what our Government is doing about delays in the work of the metro and tram in Piraeus. When are the projects expected to be completed? Have the institutions and citizens of Piraeus been informed of the new timetable? It's a little academic, but we have to do it too. I think it's more essential than the previous conversation and forgive me for that. How important is the delay for the Piraeus economy and for the tourist polo, since it is the largest port in the country? Can we consider the city's uncontrolled destruction and the economic destruction of the tens of entrepreneurs? Will there be, or should we ask, a number of compensatory benefits in favour of Piraeus operations, if the 'ATTIF' is responsible? Finally, I would like you to tell us whether and whether the ancients are in great depth and what happens with the archaeological sites that had been found during the excavation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u183	My dear colleague, indeed the works of the metro and the tram in Piraeus and other areas have been afflicted by the citizens, the professionals of the region, and many times, when such works are carried out within the urban fabric, it is inevitable. However, here we have some delays from previous years, which have nothing to do with the service or with how the project was going. They have to do with the chronic distortions we have denounced and corrected in the previous law that we voted on for public works, such as, firstly, the lack of serious studies, reliable studies, such as, secondly, the procedures for archaeology and archaeological services, such as various initiatives taken by the Ministry of Finance in the previous governments in many projects in our country - within them is the Piraeus metro - where we had no return on value added tax and, therefore, a 'coupling' of projects. I have a specific answer for the tram projects and the metro projects separately from the service. I would like, if you like, to codify them, but the issue for the citizens is this: in relation to Piraeus, on the avenues that we have today binding spaces, in December we will have completed the work, so we will not have that heavy traffic impact. Institutional issues have been resolved. There is a very close cooperation with the Municipality of Piraeus, so we have avoided what has happened in the past mainly in the metro and tram projects in relation to the installation of very critical installations, such as the substation that has been transferred as a four-time design or the tram route, where the same has happened. Of course, we have had much delay from the past, both with the archaeological excavations and the findings we have found. We are making an effort to finish the tram project in the first half of 2017. I shall also present to you the reply of the 'ATT - MEETRO'. [[At this point, the Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks Mr Christos Spirtzis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As far as the metro project is concerned, you know that there was a very large HSYCF duct, which was not in the plans. It was a very old pipeline, it was not shown in its actual position, according to the study that existed and therefore we had to transfer the position of the whole station. This, as you can see, will bring some delay to the work of the Piraeus metro, which is very important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u184	Mr. Kammenos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u185	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. It is very important to study the documents you have given. I would like to ask whether they are confidential, that is, whether we can contact them both with residents and with stakeholders in Piraeus for full information, we just need to make it clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u186	Of course, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u187	It is very important here to say that there is a reflection and I would like you to know how to respond. At some point in the line that went to Korydalus, anyway, it was decided to transfer underground the exit of the soil. You know the problem there was. It went a long way back because they used the same track to get the metropolitan and at the same time to load the materials and get out of the same line. It was something that was tragically delaying the work. We've differentiated and turned out as government over our days to be another exit point. So I ask: was that a study problem? Wasn't a good study done? Was he on the same line? Is this whole delay a man's fault and we probably have to ask someone who didn't study it properly at the time, and we had to delay a lot and open another hole in Piraeus to get the soil out? We must point out here that the holes are open. I understand what will happen in Lambraki and the Agia Triada, but the winter has already come, we have rain, there must be no further damage. We should pay particular attention to the safety of citizens who either walk or go by cars and have soil on the main streets of Piraeus. To put some clauses at the moment in "ATIO MEETRO" or in the tram, in order to safeguard the security of the citizens in relation to the bazaars that are on the sidewalks, because they will be dismantled. We know, it's downhill and it's too dangerous. Finally, the timetable must be clear because, yes, we can say that mistakes have been made and that it will be implemented one - two years later, but this is translated into money, which we probably lose or do not take from tourists, who, with a metro and a tram in Piraeus, would go up to the airport or anywhere else, and so the economic activity from tourism could be developed, plus the shops that have a huge problem with cigarettes and accessibility. We know them, we must be clear and give answers. There was also the old Greek film that said about the port of Piraeus "to reach and catch port". I borrow it from a blog, but we need to catch a port. Please very much, I will check you for that, so we are here, not for the city because I'm elected in the 2nd Piraeus, but we have to solve it, because it's a port of entry. I have nothing more to say. With regard to the previous question, with your permission, Mr President, although I am in my time, whoever talks about visits and of offshore, other than Greece, should think before speaking about what his own officials were in the Greek debt negotiation team, they were coming out of the vantages two years from 2012 and negotiating for Greece the fiscal finances of Greece and the debt that they found sustainable - I do not want to mention the names - and they have been condemned. They took a loan that we do not know how to repay and a loan with the one they took to avoid being in prison and being outside and coming to check on us, who went to make the visit as government, as the Minister for Agricultural Products said. I'd like us to be more prudent and more crowded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u189	Mr Colleague, I have codified every station and every procedure the reasons for the delay and I will deliver them to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u190	Yes, yes, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u191	You are absolutely right about the Korydallos station, but to have a sense, this problem was a delay in construction relocation due to a lack of approval for an environmental study - these are for the disposal of soil - and, of course, because of the presence of sharp globes on the ground, we have twenty months in total. These delays, which we have found on Piraeus metro, are not delays that are a few days or a month and they do cost both time and money for the Greek State, but they also cost people a lot. A consistent reason was what I told you, that VAT was not assigned, in accordance with Law 4281/2014, which healed in October 2016 with an amendment we made. I would also ask you, for my part, to continue to control us, not because, if you do not control us, we do not have due diligence - I would say, we are making a very great effort - but Parliament's control over such matters also brings a vigilance to both the services and the supervised bodies. So it'll be even better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u192	We proceed to the third with number 134/20-10-2016, a top-level question from the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Health, on the abandoned health centers and regional hospitals of Rhodes, Kos and Karpathos. The Minister will answer Mr. Xanthos. Mr. Kremastein, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u193	Mr President, because we usually invoke numbers in the questions, and they also say other numbers, and the Ministry responds with other figures, rather than following this tactic, and I will read a letter, addressed to me, the President of the Municipal Unit of Archangelou, that is, the former Municipality of Archangelou, with a population of forty thousand people, who in the summer because of tourism can also go up to sixty-seven thousand. So he writes the President, who is addressing me, saying: "We visited the Archangelou Health Center in the summer, where it was found that out of the ten doctors, who at times had only three left, the two retired the following year. In fact, one of three doctors suddenly died last month. So the whole health center is only based on two doctors. Therefore, the health center does not just fail, but it does not work in the same way. Please do as soon as possible and as you can help us with the important and neuro-algal staffing and operation of the Archangel's Health Center. The President, Silver's Silver." I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Dimitrios Kremastinos, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I contacted the headmaster of the health center, the director, who told me that the doctor's vacantness, found dead, covers it by another doctor then - says - personal agreement and not appointment. I really don't understand that. That is what he said to me, but in fact the health center must operate satisfactorily, even with the three doctors. I am not going to talk about the other two cases, because I am giving it priority, and I will develop the rest in my dentistry. So, I'm focusing on this point.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u195	My dear colleague, I have no reason to question the picture you present about this health centre. The picture, which from the point of view of numbers and staffing, is that there are currently three directors of general medicine - qualified general doctors to the extent of the manager - and two doctors in charge of outdoor services. So, a total of five doctors. They also serve thirteen more staff, nurses, radiological pilots, auxiliary personnel. In fact, recently with a notice, which was completed, the first HR aid notice with permanent staff after six years, the staff of this health centre were strengthened by two additional nurses. I also know that a position of subsidiary pediatrician had been requested, but without a response. I also know that the coverage of an ancillary cardiologist position has been requested and approved. The specific health centre, as well as several health centres in the island country, faces long-term staffing problems. And that's well known. We have made very systematic efforts to strengthen the incentives of attraction. We gave a very important, I think, EUR 400 as an incentive to cover three hundred regional hospitals in island, barren and inappropriate areas of the country to cover the positions of rural doctors. Fortunately, this has worked and has already covered several regional hospitals that have been vacant over the long term. There is also synergy and good cooperation with many regional self-governments, which you know very well that, like the South Aegean Region, they have approved a social bonus for attracting agricultural and subsidiary doctors. Despite these incentives, many times even though the state side calls for the attention of doctors to fill gaps in the health system, there is no similar response. This creates a real difficulty and a real weakness for the State to meet the health needs of these regions and we know very well that there is a sense of insecurity on their part for the time of need, for a serious life-threatening illness. But I think that what we need to do is continue in a much more systematic way to plan to fill gaps in the health system - and that is what we are doing - and to develop new structures, particularly in the part of primary care. I will say in my denture in a short way, a plan that we have launched for the development of new decentralised structures, so-called 'local health units'. Eight of these units will concern the South Aegean Region, namely the islands of Rhodes, Kos and Kalymnos. I believe that in this way, and through programmes funded by European funds, from the NSRF, we will be able to create a new model of primary health care services, based on the logic of family doctors and also of the health team, a multidisciplinary team that will provide holistic care to the patient and will focus on prevention, health care and Community medicine. This is how we believe that we can gradually fill these important and identifiable gaps in services.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u196	Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u197	That's why I avoided invoking numbers and invoking letters, because I know that numbers always prosper, but reality is tragic. I will submit a second document, by the Director of the Centre for Health of Archangelos Magafakis, with his signature, which says that "today, about thirty years later, our centre is in a very unpleasant position, as far as the premises and staff are concerned, thus having an impact on the services offered to the public". And it calls, in addition to the medical treatment we have said, for a static assessment of the building to be made, as there has been some torque and at risk. That's what Mr. Magafakis says. It also says that a solution needs to be found to replace machines that no longer work, such as furnaces, photocopiers, printers, telephone devices and others, and that people have given them air conditioning, so that winter can provide human care. The document is signed by the Director of the Centre for Health Archangelou, Magafakis Dimitrios. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Dimitrios Kremastinos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It's good, Minister, to see this. Go down to your service and say: What do these people say? Are they unreal? If they're real, let's see it. But they can't be unreal. So, it's the second one. Now I'm going to tell you a personal experience of mine. In the summer I was accidentally in Lindo on the same day that the Santorini Health Center was inaugurated. Lindos accepts about the same tourists as Santorini, because they are Rhodes tourists who are compulsory in Lindos. All these centres, which are also Antimachia in Kos and the Karpathos Health Centre and another seventy centres throughout Greece - since the era of Abrahamopoulos - as I said and when I was chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, they have no future. The machines rot. I went to Lindo, and he's a doctor at the upgraded health center, and when there's a problem, this doctor, with thousands of visitors in the summer, in winter, no. But imagine there's an accident, someone hits and they're looking to find the doctor. Is it possible to provide health care in the world? Will you tell me: will this government solve everything? Not really, but he has to focus on reality. Leave the various staff of the Ministry. You go to the PPP yourself, to these two centres, just like I told you, to the others, to Lindos and Karpathos. You'll see these. I proposed that, when I was chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, legislation should be introduced to become hybrids or anything, because in order to rotate machinery, no service is available, whatever solution is tolerated, in cooperation with the medical association, with the municipality, with anything, with doctors, in any case. They're gonna rot those things. They rot. This is not an exaggeration of what I'm telling you. Take the plane and go to Lindo tomorrow morning. It's a tragic story, which isn't, of course, Mr. Blondhos. That's what happened on Abramopoulos. They have no regulation, no organization, nothing foresees. If people go there and look at the garden, it's good. There's nothing. Not just about the garden, there are no nurses in it. There's nothing. Therefore, I do not come to opposition, I come to describe a tragic situation and propose that you go tomorrow morning to see them or take a phone call from them and say: 'You know, the Vice-President came and filed documents in Parliament. Do these documents have any basis?’ And then call people who tell you what they're telling you - why can't the Minister go to all of Greece every day, I understand it myself - and tell them: What are you telling me? Is that possible, too, for them to say with these documents?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u199	Mr President, the question is not whether there are any problems in the health system in our country. There were problems even before the crisis and before the memorandum and before the cuts in public spending.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u200	Of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u201	And there have always been uncovered needs, which have increased in the time of the crisis. And what we did very systematically last year was to give a very important priority to public care. That is what the world needs in the period of the economic and social crisis and poverty, first of all to support the public hospitals, which had received all the pressure, precisely because they have huge gaps in the primary care system, especially in the emergency departments and in the regular external medical services. This was done with an effective, in my view, way. There has also been financial support for operating expenditure in hospitals, as well as packages of intervention and assistance with human resources, and with permanent and subsidiary staff. We've hired over a thousand two hundred auxiliary doctors. This was a very critical and also crucial intervention to keep the health system upright. The truth is, primary care stayed a little back because, as I told you, public hospitals had priority. This year, however, with the design we are doing, we are slowly developing new services and we are trying to cover, there, obviously, the great gaps that exist. There are no more organic positions in the regional medical establishments to which you have referred. The Lindou Regional Medical School has an organic position, which is covered with a specialist general doctor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u202	That's what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u203	The Regional Hospital of Antimachia has two places, one of which is covered with a general doctor and the other with a rural doctor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u204	That should change.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u205	Sure. Especially for Antimachia we have designed what I said before in my first speech, the inclusion in the Health Center of the new decentralised structure that we will develop in primary health care, called the Local Health Unit, which has a minimal staffing of about 10 people, family doctors, children, nurses, visitors, social workers, etc. We believe in this way slowly, using the limited resources that the country has and also the limited resources that we can draw from the European Union at this time, to cover a large part of the gaps currently existing in the health system. As I said, this notice was completed after a year of delay, and this is a part which we also need to discuss. While we have so many gaps in the health system, we have a terriblely difficult, bureaucratic and time-consuming selection system and medical and paramedical nursing staff. We must look back at these procedures and agree conscientiously to go into a more flexible process, of course, of merit, the choice of these people that are needed and expect the rest of the workers in hospitals to strengthen them. With this notice, therefore, they are covered - and in these days, their recruitment - thirty-one place in Rhodes Hospitals, Kos and in the Centre for Health of Karpathos is completed. You see, steps are taking. I am not saying that it is necessary or that we are moving at the speed that we would like, and above all, with the need for the current situation in society, which requires upgraded public care. But, in cooperation with local communities, with local authorities, with understanding on the part of workers in the health system, who bear the heavy burden and keep the ESS standing and trustworthy today in our country and in a spirit of cooperation between the scientific world in our country, I think we can slowly start to cover some of these gaps and stop this terrible asymmetry of needs and resources in our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, nineteen students and students and an educational attendant from Patmos High School. Welcome to the Greek Parliament! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, I also have the honour to announce to the House that Congressman Kosanis Georgios Kasapidis is requesting permission abroad for his transition to Cyprus, from 1 November to 5 November 2016. Also, the Independent MP and President of the Christian Democratic Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, seeks permission from Parliament's work from Monday 31 October to Wednesday 2 November 2016 due to his absence in Russia and specifically in St Petersburg, as the head of a group of independent investigators to fight smuggling circuits. Congressman Dora Bakoyannis is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from Monday 31 October to Friday 4 November 2016 for private reasons. Parliamentary Pellas Mr Ioannis Sahinides is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad, in accordance with Rule 76(3) and (4) of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, from October 31 to November 2, 2016 for party obligation. MEP Mr Theodoros Fortsakis seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad for university reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u207	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. We continue with the fourteenth under the number 111/17-10-2016 topical question by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgantas to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the initiation of the procedure for privatising the "ENGNATIA DIO S.A.", the concession of its road network and the issues that arise. Mr Georgiotis has the floor for two minutes for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, a few days ago it was announced by the GOI that the consultation process at the beginning of the concession of the Egnatia Road is actually under way. It's a well-known thing. According to this communication, the consultation should, in essence, have taken a specific form in January 2017, continued in 2017 and should have binding offers from interested parties for this concession by November 2017. At the same time, the privatization of "Engnatia WEBSITE S.A." has called for the creation of four toll stations, one of which is in the Evzones of Kilkis, which basically occupies the road network from the unequal node of Kalashtra to the border station of the Evzones. My objection and question have to do with this. We are the only part of the Egnatia Road with the three verticals - one perpendicular to the Euzoons - in which, while there are no characteristics that must be connected to the image of a modern highway - and I mean a separator, I mean two lanes per direction, I mean an emergency lane, I mean a suitable road, I mean lighting where it needs to be, I mean nodes where it needs to be, I mean, closed highway - at least 50 km of this route from the total sixty-five, we are called upon to pay tolls. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I believe that the first principle of creating tolls and building a motorway is the principle of reciprocity. There is currently no certainty to the inhabitants of the Polykastro region, but also to Kilkis, that this recompense will be in this work, as we have no picture of who will take over the construction of this motorway, which is, of course, the portal of the country for anyone who comes from Europe to Greece. The image of this road is unacceptable. We do not know what timetable it will do if there is a commitment in the consultation that the government will make as well as in the construction timetable. You understand that local society is concerned with the serious possibility - along with the construction of tolls - the possibility of finally upgrading this road network over time, because if there is no specific commitment to the concessionaire and taking advantage of the road for thirty-five years, we do not know when in these thirty-five years it will start building the road. I fear that this will take place in thirty-five years, namely the end of this concession. The questions raised are reasonable. Please for an answer because, as I told you, it is the only part of the entire Egnatia in the six hundred and eighty-four kilometers that does not meet the specifications of a modern highway. Let me just note that for the thirteen years I have been able to have data, i.e. from 2003 until today, half of these miles, which is the responsibility of the Polykastro Police Department, we have thirty-four dead, twenty-nine of which are from frontal conflicts because the stadium is missing. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u209	The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to mention a few things, because some of what you have said is agreed, Mr President. So let's say a little history. Under the decision of the Interministerial Committee on Restructuring and Privatisation, the right to operate, maintain and operate the Motorway, i.e. the Egnatia Road, and all three vertical axes, was acquired in the TEAD. The joint Ministerial Decision 6686/2014 decided to place the toll station and to set toll charges on the Ennaia Road and on its vertical axes and to launch the proportionate charge gradually until 2017. When we say 'analogue charge', we do not mean electronic tolls, but we mean from station to station. So, those which you are probably asking me to ask the previous ministers, both those who were in 2012 and 2014, who took out these regulations and the laws, put the 'Egnatia Road' in the TEAD - which is, to date, a commitment of the country - and have put the toll stations in place without any specific category, such as people with disabilities, such as citizens' free access to the boundaries of a Callicratic municipality - my opinion is that Ennaia is a counter-region level - as are other vulnerable groups, such as workers who move every day and so on. As a result of this policy, we have now introduced tolls where they did not exist, that we cannot exempt the Ennaia Road from all three vertical axes, because there was a commitment from the previous government. What we are waiting for right now - but TIADED is not a body that oversees our Ministry, and so you will ask the relevant Minister - is when the TIADED completes the study in relation to the concession of the Egnatia Road, see the model that has been "run" and suggests that it be exploited. There the Ministry of Infrastructure will make comments in the direction I mentioned before. Until then, all that applies is the joint ministerial decision of the then Minister for Finance and Infrastructure to place tolls, for the fines you know they are multiplying for people who do not have, without any other provision, and for the range of toll prices that can be taken on the Egnatia Road. At this point, let me add something else, because you asked me something very important. You say whether it can have a toll on a road that has these specifications, that is to say, does not have the standards of a road that belongs to the European network. That is why you can ask all Greece that suffers from the tolls that entered through concessions on roads under construction. You can ask the inhabitants of western Greece, Patras, Epirus, Thessaly, to see that it was really a practice followed by previous governments. I agree with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Georgioda, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u212	Minister, I really wanted the debate to be essential and I expected you to answer me on the substance. Of course, you agree, but I did not get an answer on the substance. So to put things in order, I would like to say to you: there are indeed motorways which have been granted and are under construction in Greece - and we agree with this - and to which tolls there are tolls. However, we are talking about a road on which there is no contractor, there is no contractor established, there is no timetable for its completion. What moral or legal basis can such a decision have? I ask that, to tell you what I disagree and what concerns me in relation to the history that you have said, which I know very well. Firstly, I would like to say to you that there is co-government number 4070/2012 at that time, with the signature of Mr Voridis, which gives the opportunity for tolls on roads under conditions, when the contractual deadlines have elapsed by the public. It's set! There are exceptions. But the most important thing to me is that in November 2014 these roads were built. But you know what was foreseen in this place? "The imposition of the toll for" - I read it as it says in Article 1 - "the repayment of construction costs, the operation, maintenance and improvement of the Egnatia Road". He said the word'manufacture'. You come - you are not, Mr. Stathakis, Mr. Juliarakis, Mr. Tsakalotos and Mr. Skourletis - to approve the operational programme of HIDED, the Governing Council of Economic Policy, dated 25 May 2016, where you refer to Egnatia, but here, unfortunately, you say "Long 30-year-old concession of the right to operate, maintain and operate". The difference is now that you speak only of operation, maintenance and exploitation. I do not see the word'manufacture'. I could tell the Kilkisiots, look, in five years' time, the road will be built, and there's the contraction in. Therefore, given that there is a time commitment to the installation of the contractor directly and to the completion of this road, yes, to accept the creation of tolls, of course, and then let everyone choose which road toll will follow. However, I would like to ask the Kilkiotians to accept the creation of a toll station when we thought that this would be parallel to the construction of the road - even at the same time - which should normally be done with integration, but since the law provides for it to be done even with the beginning. But I'm afraid that neither in your consultation will there be a commitment to the completion of this road to the concessionaire, so that you can get as much money from him as possible. When will this road be built? How am I supposed to take a toll on a road killed on frontals? I can't. Where in Greece there are, in fact, some cases, projects under construction and they will be completed at some point. I on a road 50 km without a stench in the middle, can I tolerate, as Kilkisiotis, the operation of a toll station? In the previous decision, he was talking about construction. I do not see the word'manufacture and expansion'. I see only the word 'conservation and operation'. So, Minister, I think it should be answered in substance and in any case corrected that it has not been signed properly, because I say to you that it is both legally and morally unacceptable and lame, I will be allowed to tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u213	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u214	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr Colleague, we're probably reading other decisions. I read the relevant decision to you. I'll give it to you, I've testified it. I just got it, to read it to you: “10 August 2012, upon the Minister’s recommendation, decides at the public limited company “TADED SA.”
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u215	Mr. President, may I? There's no Evils over there.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u216	You're wrong. Let me read it to you. How isn't there? ‘(i) the right of EGNATIONAL WEIGHTS S.A.’ for the operation, maintenance and operation of (a) the Egnatia Road, hereinafter ‘the Automotive Road’, and its road areas and (b) the following boulevards to the highways, etc. (ii) the Greek State's right to operate, maintain and operate the vertical axis A/K Hallastras - Evzone Border Station". How isn't there?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u217	In the 2014 Decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u218	This is the commitment the government had made at that time. Obviously, we have the same commitment from there.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u219	That's not what the 2014 decision says. The decision I have before me tells me other things.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u220	No, it's 2012. I'll give it to you now. I've filed it in the Minutes. Let me tell you. Sheet No 2316/10-8-2012, Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u221	Good, I have a 2014 decision saying other things, Minister. The 2014 decision states the word ‘manufacture’. I'll testify to her in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u222	Mr Colleagues, however, this is not the case for parliamentary scrutiny.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u223	Yeah, but it's important.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u224	Please! All right, let's adjust a little to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u225	Now I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u226	It does not say "manufacture".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u227	Here there is no word "manufacture" and it is 2012. Let's go to second. The construction could be carried out by other procedures, not by conferring the specific vertical axis of the TIDE for operation and maintenance, as stated in the 2012 Act. The "GENERATION OF THE WORLD" which is responsible for this road has a mature project, the study has been completed. Therefore, if it had not been granted to the GOI, the project could really have gone ahead. I imagine that you are not asking me to commit money from the EDP or from the ESDP to implement this road when it is to be granted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u228	Somebody's got to do it. Juncker pack.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u229	That's why I told you to bring us the model it proposes and then we'll actually see what we're going to do there. Then on the substance...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u230	Will you talk about it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u231	If I'll see you around, I heard. "If we do, let go of that. So I say that I cannot respond at this time and, of course, there is no way I can agree to a project that is ready to be granted. This was done at airports, and we have hundreds of millions of dollars to give for airports that are granted and many other privatisations that had been foreseen. It is not - and I imagine you agree with it too - that is, according to the public interest, that we should proceed with such a project, and that work is to be given along with Egnatia.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u232	Thank you. We are going to the last for today's topical question. It is the first with number 136/21-10-2016 timely question of the second question of the New Democracy MP Christos Boukokorous to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism concerning the grant of the input-output system to service stations. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Theodora Jacquez. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a request. It's the last question. If possible, we should be precise in time. This is the final stage of the debate at the Conference of Presidents on the PSE and I have to go to the vote. So please - I do not want to interrupt - if possible, respect the time, so that I can go to vote as well. Thank you very much. Now starts your time, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u233	We will be brief, Mr President. Minister, I wonder if your government intends to pay in reasonable time any of the Greek citizens businessmen to whom much owes. In view of the situation of the real economy, which collapses every day, kneels, declines, I have tabled the specific question concerning four and a half thousand liquefied fuel operators throughout the country. As you know, all these operators were integrated into the input-output system installation programme. It is a system which, if we exploit, would also combat smuggling and tax evasion, issues for which SYRIZA as an opposition had lifted up as a flag. Instead of using them as a government, it deceives them instead of expanding them, it does not repay them, Minister. Two years have passed since the project was completed, all four and a half thousand agency files have been checked and no one has been repaid. We are talking about between EUR 5 000 and 10,000, a total of EUR 30 million, which lacks the market and the real economy. It is really unjustified that for about two and a half years, a few months on the days of the previous government, and almost two years on the days of your own government, these debts have not been repaid. I would like to point out to you that these are small and medium-sized businessmen who, Minister, have to deal with overtaxation, the excessive increase in insurance contributions. They joined this system as the state literally ordered them and waited for their money for two years. The amounts for small and medium-sized enterprises are significant. I want you to bear in mind, Minister, that in many cases this money comes from borrowing and that means burdens. So as long as you're running out as a government as a whole - I saw the Minister of Health there earlier, who has to pay the clinics in Greece since February, and the entire previous period in which they risked clinical in our country and in my constituency, in Magnesia, even with a loss of electricity - the debts to third parties at 7.8,9 billion, the economy is strangled. So what are you going to do with the issue of four and a half thousand liquid fuels, Minister? When are you gonna pay them? And do not drop the ball on your platform, please, that it is the Ministry of Finance, because by submitting the question I expect some specific answers on behalf of all these small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u235	Mr Colleague, I will begin by pointing out that the fact that the inflow-out system has not been completed to the beneficiaries does not mean that these systems have not been installed or are not working. Therefore, your point of view that this government is not effectively dealing with trafficking in liquid fuel stations, because the beneficiaries have not been paid, is not, as you can see, standing up, because the systems, as you have said yourself, have been installed and operated. However, I would remind you, Mr President, that the initial planning and the way in which the beneficiaries of the input-out system were paid by the previous government was, of course, done. The previous Minister of Development in 2013 had decided to include the beneficiaries in this action, and even the ‘Information Society’ was designated as an intermediary of management. I would remind you, Mr Colleague, that the 'information society' is being supervised by the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction and Interior. I understand that the government's responsibility is collective, and I now reply, if you like, by representing the entire government, but unreservedly in my own narrow portfolio. Therefore, the ‘Information Society’, a colleague, was also decided to carry out on-the-spot checks, i.e. autopsies that the beneficiaries bought and installed the input-outs system, but also to pay the relevant allowances, the relevant subsidies to the beneficiaries. By supporting this project from a specific information system, from a specific platform, the beneficiaries could submit applications for inclusion in the programme, as well as the request for the completion of the installation, and this electronic application was accompanied by the sending of physical dossiers with the necessary supporting documents, to the same service, i.e. the "information society", so that this correctness-to-intelligence control team can then assess the supporting documents. According to the information he has given me - as I have told you, I now represent the government as a whole, I do not have the same competence in this regard in the 'Information Society' as four thousand ninety-seven-fifths of five requests for grants were actually submitted. Four thousand four hundred twenty-six requests were approved. And at the moment they have been submitted by the beneficiaries, because you realise that the first phase is to comply with the beneficiaries themselves, namely to install the input-output system in their offices, two thousand two hundred twelve requests for the completion of the installation were submitted, and at the moment it has been completed by the 'information society' control of seven hundred and fifty of them. Let me tell you...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u236	And how many were paid by the seven hundred fifty?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u237	I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u238	Not even one!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u239	You're wrong. You haven't updated your data. Let me tell you, first of all, that all these delays in the repayment of the system of beneficiaries of outputs to the beneficiaries, who, as you quite rightly said, started in 2013, in a very large part, because they themselves did not send the physical file, as I said to you, with the supporting documents presented and, secondly, they have submitted incomplete data, so that the evaluation of the dossiers from the "Information Society" cannot go ahead. Let me tell you that by decision of 7-6-2016, Mr. colleague, the Special Secretariat for Public Investment and the NSRF was disbursed of EUR 1 million to the "Information Society" and at the moment that we are talking about today, approximately the end of August, the payment of the relevant grants, grants to the relevant authorities, to the beneficiaries, who, as you can see, have been controlled in accordance with the procedure I told you. That's what I'm going to tell you in my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u241	I'm surprised, Minister. You came here to tell us that it has been paid, which for my part is controlled, one thirty of the work. You spoke of 1 million when the project totals more than 30 million. Try to blame liquid fuel operators, while their files have been checked since 2014 and simply proceed to the re-control. Do what all ministries do, all government ministers SYRIZA - ANEL. You are sending away the time away, you are firing the obligations away and you are accumulating the debts to third parties and you have renegotiated them at 9 billion, while you received them 3.5 billion. You strangle the real economy every day. This is what you do with the specific issue of liquid fuels that people expect their money. Now on whether you are using the system, Minister, I do not blame you personally. Responsibilities are comprehensive. We are aware, however, that the data collected by the input-output system, in the absence of personnel, as your Ministry says, are not processed, there is no processing. I would like to ask you, Minister, if you are using the input-outs system, which are your communications, for two years now. Why has public opinion not been informed of input-output system data? I know all the evidence goes to a well without the bottom, let me know. But return to the main theme of the question. Minister, to say that seven hundred dossiers have been re-elected and even two hundred beneficiaries have been paid - because with one million euros for so many is enough to pay for two hundred agencies and not even - when four and a half thousand agencies have been waiting for them to get their money for two years, I wonder about the effectiveness of your Government's ministries. How long does the Information Society and any relevant ministry need to check four and a half thousand files, for a project that - I repeat - had all been completed in the last six months of 2014? Furthermore, Minister, if you really believed in your election announcements on the persecution of smuggling and tax evasion, you would have extended the input-out system and made it compulsory both for oil companies and for refineries. You see, however, you do not pay back the first phase that wet-fuel stations are. So where is your faith in combating tax evasion and smuggling? Nor do you achieve and strangle, as I have said in my protology, the real economy, by exterminating small and medium-sized enterprises, such as liquid fuel operators, which you have literally drowned with overtaxation. They have to deal with their resurrect and you do not pay them a subsidy, which they are entitled to, Minister, and for which, in order for the professionals concerned to be involved in this programme, they have been borrowed. This means that for two years they pay interest and if you're late, they're going to suffer significant financial damage. At the same time, your Ministry comes in and obliges them to install a certified fuel tank volume system. While you have not paid the previous programme, you are obliging them to join a second programme and to undergo new bleeding. All this, of course, is neither housewives, Minister, nor aid development, nor help to restore the real economy. On the contrary, they kneel her and tear her apart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u242	Thank you. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u243	Thank you. Mr Colleagues, I still believe that you have a confusion both of your responsibilities and of the actions that have been taken. I shall begin with your last comment on the system of volume measurements.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u244	I'm asking your government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u245	The obligation to measure tanks, Mr. Colleague, was for the first time foreseen in a joint ministerial decision by the Ministers for Development and Transport in 2010. It's KYA F21617-2010. It was decided that, from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014, the volume measurements will be carried out by certified bodies, while from 1 January 2015, they will be carried out by accredited bodies, precisely because of the very important importance of having a reliable volume system for the proper functioning of the input-output system itself. It follows that that Government did not impose any additional burden on it, as you yourself claim to be in that category of agents, who are freelance and face up to a number of other problems, again. They are old obligations arising from a previous legal framework. The only thing that changed in 2014, however, in this context, is the duration of the volume measurements, where it was foreseen by the decision of the FCH in 2014 that the duration of the volume measurements will be five years for the certified, ten years for the accredited and twenty-four months which were made twenty-nine and the extension of the volumes, because I asked the market to...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u246	When will these people be paid?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u247	...for the counting of evidence...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u248	Do you have a schedule? When will these professionals be paid?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u249	...for the counting of unreliable data.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u250	But is that the question?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u251	Because you mentioned it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u252	Madam Minister, please. Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u253	When will the professionals be paid?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u254	Mr. Colleague, you probably don't live in this country. Because we in the Secretariat-General of Industry have also notified the results of the audits we have carried out for years, Mr Colleague, because there is a political will of this government and that ministry to combat the smuggling of fuels in the liquid-fuel stations. The initiative we took in the summer was also initiated, precisely because there were issues of implementation of the existing framework. What can we do, Mr. Comrade? We are also trying to build in the system of inputs and outputs, just as the former government of New Democracy - PASOK designed and implemented it. You're a member of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr. Bucoore. So what did we do in this direction to step on...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u255	Minister, you don't answer me when they'll be paid.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u256	We tried to deal with...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u257	Do you have a schedule?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u258	Mr. Comrade, why are you having a difficult meeting? Please. Madam Minister, can you...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u259	We're asking questions here to hear specific answers, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u260	Please. I'm making a personal appeal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u261	We're not here to hear philosophies.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u262	Excuse me. Why this appeal to me, Mr. Lykoudi? Am I interrupting my colleague when he talks? I think it's my time to talk...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u263	I don't make any distinctions. I have barely told you with great courtesy that I am calling for you to complete it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u264	If you hadn't interrupted time, Mr President, we'd be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u265	Do you have a plan, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u266	This is not the case with parliamentary scrutiny. There's a rule. Let's keep him. You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u267	Therefore, it is not my responsibility to choose the 'information society', Mr President. It is the previous government and the problems that exist, perhaps because of the weakness, as you have said, and the lack of competence in this particular service, but we have told you that we are going along with it. But I said earlier that we have just taken a legislative initiative to address the distortions of the former system. Therefore, the forecasts of the 'information society' I transfer them irresponsibly to this Chamber. Impossible, I'm saying it again. I am not supervising the Information Society. Learn to submit your questions to the right Ministries. It is too great for me to decide to answer your timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u268	Why did you come to answer if you weren't competent?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u269	The Department of Administrative Reform, as I told you. The repayment of the beneficiaries will be completed in 2017.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Article 3126/2003 ‘Prime responsibility of Ministers’, as in force on 31-10-2016: Criminal proceedings concerning the Minister for Health Mr Andreas Xanthos and the Deputy Minister for Health Mr Paulo Polakis. Criminal proceedings concerning the former Prime Minister George Papandreou. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-31-S1-commons.u271	With the consent of the House at 21.22 p.m. the sitting is closed for Wednesday 2 November 2016 at 12.00 p.m. on the subject of the House's work: applications for waiver of immunity from Members, in accordance with the special agenda distributed.
