ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before we begin the well-established work of this House and on the occasion of today's World Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, the Bureau of the Parliament decided to spend some time on today's milestone, as substantial participants and alike of this year's white ribbon campaign. This is an initiative taken a few decades ago exclusively by men sensitive and determined to help eliminate all forms of violence against women. A little more, we are all, unfortunately, familiar with the phenomenon and its statistics. Physical abuse, verbality, sexual violence and psychological violence are typically his basic charges. Violence as a whole is a universal phenomenon that does not discriminate between culture, nationality, language, religion, colour or socio-economic order. The numbers accompanying it are really creepy. By 2013, 68% of the women who were abused were married. 16% of women seeking help were foreign. 70% of victims are medium, higher or higher education graduates and, in their overwhelming proportion, belong to medium or higher economic strata. Naturally, the phenomenon is not exhausted in some age group. In Greece of the 21st century, about a third of women have, unfortunately, experienced physical or psychological violence since childhood, usually because of an adult. On a European scale, too, the figures come to destroy every illusion of culture and the superiority of the rest of the European peoples. Within a year 13 million Europeans have been physically abused and 3.7 million have been sexually abused. One in three women in the European Union has fallen victim to physical or sexual assault, with the 'populated' northern Europe holding the highest rates of violence against women. Not to mention the 9 million women who have fallen victim to persistent surveillance, the so-called stocking, and the 55% heartbreaker who said he has experienced some form of sexual harassment or threat. I want to insist on the numbers, because only through them can we capture the nightmare that lives the opposite sex not only in our country or in Europe, but in every corner of the planet. One out of three women worldwide has experienced physical or sexual violence by her partner. Near 140 million are estimated for girls and women who have so far been subjected to mandatory genital mutilation. This horrible custom is well held, since an additional 3 million girls are added each year in Africa. Almost 70 million girls on the planet have lived as children - brides. At the same wavelengths of over 10 million women are forced slavery and about 5 million girls and women are victims of prostitution and trafficking. I may have tired you with the numbers and percentages, but think a little: All I have given you are not cold statistics on a card. They're faces, they're souls with dreams, they're girls walking next to them unconscious and we're passing them, ignoring the cross that they carry on their shoulders. They're women with mother and father, brothers and friends and children. As the son of a wonderful woman, as a brother, as a friend, a companion or a colleague, I would like you to allow me to tell you what I personally define as violence in the given way and time of life. Violence is the diligent suffocation on the face of the woman, who fails to hide the bruises, not even with excuses, such as this millennial "it's nothing, I fell on the stairs". Violence is the discrimination that is cultivated by swings "you are housewives, you are not working", "I made a daughter to bring me a glass of water to the old" or "the men don't cry." Violence is the permanent incubation of men in listening to an incident of rape, "he wanted them and suffered them". Violence is the late right to vote, the comparatively lower wage, the delayed promotions and personal questions when recruiting to work, "are you thinking about having a family?" Violence is the standards of beauty and stereotypes of roles. It's the belt that's not called divorced. She is the widow who often listens to her being called "you ate the man" or the single mother who is automatically identified with a woman of liberties. Violently, finally, there is hatred in transgender women, in creatures who felt the need to redefine their genders and paid expensively with humiliation, with wood, even with their own lives. But for us, ladies and gentlemen, it is another thing. It's our tolerance to violence. He's the relative, the neighbor, the friend, the colleague he knows, but he doesn't talk. That is why we must be aware that in the past, or will happen in the future, we are also responsible, because in essence tolerance is complicity. In conclusion, I would like to say once again that we will all continue in and out of Parliament to fight in every way against the violence that we all condemn together today. I'm sure you all share the same thoughts and feelings with me in this Chamber. This fact alone is the best starting point for our joint effort in the future. All of us today wearing the white ribbon, whether in the ribbon or directly in the heart, deserve as proud sons, fathers, companions, brothers and friends of women to turn for just a few moments up and silent in this Chamber, to bow to all these women - victims, in front of the real heroes of life. Thank you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, the normal sitting is taking place now. Before entering the topical and urgent debate, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Monday, 28 November 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 241/22-11-2016 of the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skouriakou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, about the use of the Olympic Sniper at Markopoulou Attica. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 236/21-11-2016 by MP Arta, New Democracy, George Stylios, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning the increase in the amount of the associated aid per acre for oranges to be poured out. 3. The question by No 243/22-11-2016 of the Greek Communist Party MP Iraklios Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, concerning measures for the completion of the work of the Captain School in Heraklion Crete. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 237/21-11-2016 by MP Rethymnon of the New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Kefaloyannis to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the legal status of a Cypriot company participating in the Dawn Stock Exchange S.A. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 227/18-11-2016 by MP Heraklion of the New Democracy Mr.Eleftherios Aygenakis to the Minister of Health on the systematic degradation of the National Health System. 3. The 232/21-11-2016 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, about the digitisation of mobile monuments and the lousy working relationships that archaeologists have to work with. 4. The 225/18-11-2016 topical question by Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP for the First Athens of Potamio Mr Spyridonos Lykoudis to the Minister of the Interior about the problems of the Area of Mars. 5. The question by no. 240/22-11-2016, by MP Preveza of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Konstantinos Barkas to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, about the trade union persecutions at the House of Athens. 6. The 239/21-11-2016 topical question by MP B' Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Georgios Germenis to the Minister of the Interior, on the "mortal assault by para-state indictment orders to a Member of the Greek Parliament". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 235/21-11-2016 topical question by Deputy Serres of New Democracy Mrs. Fotinis Arabatzis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the abandonment of the radiant monument of Amphipolis. 8. The Question No 238/21-11-2016 by Independent Member of the Achaias Parliamentary Mr. Jason Fotidas to the Minister of the Interior, on the protection of citizens and public property by the hoodiers. 9. The 233/21-11-2016 topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the abolition of the right of the hotel staff to receive only 20 years of insurance and new reductions of 20%. 10. The 186/8-11-2016 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Ministers for Culture and Sports, on the situation in the National Sports Centres (ESAK) and Municipal Sports Centres. 11. The Question No 216/15-11-2016 by the Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Culture and Sports on the decision of the Council of State to charge EUR 30 000 000 to 32 condemned by the world line "Athens 1997". 12. The Question No 211/15-11-2016 by MP Chania of the Radical Left Coalition, Antonio Balomannakis, to the Minister of Tourism, concerning the introduction of a legislative framework to tackle the uncontrolled expansion of the phenomenon "all inclusive" in tourism. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The Question No 213/15-11-2016 by MP Aitolokarnania of the Radical Left Coalition Mrs Maria Triantafylou to the Minister of Tourism concerning the completion of the project by Marina Meslogiou. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 32/3-10-2016 of the Independent MEP, Mr. Theocharis Theocharis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the steps to establish the Single Social Security Agency. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The first question will be discussed under number 229/21-11-2016 of the first cycle of the MP Florina of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Konstantinos Selcas to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the concession of the use of a farm by the Ministry of Rural Development to the Prespecies Protection Company for the purpose of highlighting, maintaining and demonstrating the traditional water medal in Agios German Prespecies. The Minister responsible, Mr. Apostolos, will answer. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I agree and sign what you said about the abuse of women. Minister, the county to which I live and which I am dealt with, the Prefecture of Florina, has the blessing of special natural beauty, with an environment that we are trying to preserve as the "daughter of an eye" most of its inhabitants. This environment, along with the energy and water reserves, is also the comparative advantage of our region. However, our cultural heritage is rich and needs to be promoted. In an effort to promote this cultural heritage, civil society that plays a key role and can help our state, which, because of a structure, cannot always have the right reflexes. The case of restoring the traditional water medal of St. German is an example of how civil society, when acting for public benefit, can have wonderful results. The Non-profit Prespecies Society is active in our area and has rich action on environmental, cultural and social issues. It has been embraced by local society and has been awarded twice as the Best of the Best for the 'Life' European Union programmes in which it participated. Its action is at the forefront of the negative examples of opacity in the functioning of certain NGOs which have been concerned by the public. The action of the Prespecies Protection Company is a positive example of a good example of transparency, social sensitivity and good management. Indeed, for the work which is also the occasion of the question it was awarded the Europa Nostra prize by the European Union. The project was the restoration of the traditional water medal of St. German and was carried out with funding provided by the Company of Prespecies Protection from individuals and members of the local society. The proposal of the Society for the Protection of Press on the operation of water medal includes the following: Free access for residents and visitors, maintenance of the building over time, operation of the mill as an area for exhibition and cultural activities, operation of the area for carrying out environmental education programmes. Because this is a joint work that will be open to local society, because the restoration action has incorporated the traditional water medal into the monuments for the conservation of European cultural heritage, and this is due to the efforts of the members and scientists who have worked with the Society for the Protection of Press, because the examples of good cooperation between state bodies, civil society and local society need to be strengthened, I ask you, Mr Minister, if you intend to grant the use of the agricultural parcel and water medal in the Society for the Protection of Press, with a view to ensuring the smooth functioning of the mill, to highlighting the mutual purpose of preserving and highlighting the cultural and folklore values of this pre-industrial monument, but also to highlight the ecological value of St. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to the Minister, I would like to inform you that the Member, Mr Theodoros Fortsakis, is asking for a short-day absence abroad from 29-11-2016 to 2-12-2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u4	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr. Apostle has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u5	My colleague, the traditional water mill of St. German is the only one saved from the twenty water mills that existed in the area. And of course it is a point of reference for the place. This is a ground floor stone building built in 1930 and it was a complex, Mr President, of three uses: water milling for the grinding of cereals, waterproof washing of cloth and mantle for the inflammation of the weaving and weaving of the weaving. This is a process which is very important for the province. In the 1960s this building came to the Ministry of Rural Development and after approval of the Region of Western Macedonia, restoration and reconstruction operations were carried out. The mill was repaired for the first time in 1997 by the Prespecies Protection Company with the help of the village's residents, volunteers, the WWF and, of course, with the support of the MAVA Foundation. It is worth mentioning all those who have contributed in this direction, as the European Union has made a very important contribution. Of course the restoration of this particular mill, as my colleague said, was awarded a Grand Prix prize for the Europa Nostra 2016 cultural heritage. That is why it is also part of the monuments of the conservation of European cultural heritage. We, acknowledging the need to maintain and operate this traditional watermill for the benefit of the local society, decided to grant this non-profit company and with a very important task of protecting the Prespes the use of the Saint German farm. It has an area of 1125 sq.m., of course, as well as the existing in this area of water mill, in order to ensure the uninterrupted operation of the water mill, to highlight the mutual purpose of preserving and highlighting the cultural and folklore values of this pre-industrial monument and of course to highlight the ecological value of Saint German and the whole of the Prespes region. In addition, the reopening was a dream for the village's inhabitants of years that was finally completed, with the assistance of the local authorities, the region of Western Macedonia, the Municipality of Prespes, the Society of Protection of Prespes and the private sector. And I stress it, it was very important that the donation of the Leventis Foundation and the Stavros Niarchus Foundation were very important.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u6	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor. It was a good answer, I don't think you have much to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u7	Yes, I do not have much to say, rather than thank you for the rapid decision of the Minister. On behalf of the Prespecies Society, on behalf of the mayor of Mr. Paschalides and myself, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u8	And the people of Florinna.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u9	Of course, both the people of Florina and the Prespes and the community of the Municipality of Prespes. Minister, I hope you will soon visit our Municipality, Prefecture, in order to be able to see the water mill as well as the Prespa with the Pelekanos Cooperative of producers and other agricultural and cooperative powers. Thank you one more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u10	At the inauguration of reopening, which I hope will be done quickly. Minister, you want to say something else, because you've said everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u11	I'd just like to say two words. It is not only a question of highlighting the cultural heritage, we want this building, this activity, to be linked to the daily life of the village by providing services really to grain milling, washing carpets, that is to say, a service in the local communities, which we must begin to look for the roots and activities that have been linked to the cultural activity of the countryside and I would say productive and economic activities of the countryside. This is what DIAGE, the organization we have created, who tries, records the entire property of the Ministry, throughout Greece and through such concessions and exploitations, we believe that it will serve its basic purpose, which is no longer the provision of social services in the countryside.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u12	Don't say about the Ministry's property and he hears it, and we have drums, and the answers to the MPs, like today, must be such. We move to the second under number 234/21-11-2016 timely question of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP Kilkis Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the non-payment of basic aid to thousands of farmers. Here, Mr Georgioda, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, every year, thousands of farmers in Greece expect payment of the various subsidies and subsidies so that they can settle their obligations towards third parties, to banks and to be able to spend the Christmas days with what remains. In the advance payment of the basic payment, which was paid on 27 October, some farmers, for a number of different reasons, were able to make no advance. OPEKEPE made a statement on 1 November, it was true quite categorical, categorizing these people, to others, that the criterion of the active farmer did not appear to have been met, to others, to have had no chance of controlling the transfer of rights, the issue is one: some farmers were not paid at all. And because it is expected in the next few days, in the next few weeks, perhaps days - you will tell us - the repayment of all the rest, the anxiety of these people is whether they will be able to - this mistake, recognised by the OPECE, that it has been done with them - to be paid. I do not really care to say if it is the services of the OPEKEPE or the Ministry of Finance, that is the least. What I want to hear today - and I hope you are clear about this - is that these farmers will be paid in the next few days, because they really have to be paid. If not many thousands of families are paid, they will have many issues, very critically, to deal with both their obligations, but also with the possibility of living. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u14	And I thank you, because you were in the least time. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u15	Mr President, we have tried to pay the basic payment this year earlier than last year. In fact, about forty days ago, as you said on 27 October, the advance payment of basic aid to farmers was recorded. The amount entered was EUR 770,000,000. Six hundred eighty - nine thousand people applied for. Of these, the beneficiaries of basic payment entitlements were deemed to be the six hundred eighty thousand, because the remaining fifty-two thousand are paid through measures relating to the rural development programme and the related aid and were obliged to apply, because the previous payment could not be made, but they would not have the right to the basic payment. Another sixty-six thousand farmers were not paid on this basis because they were entitled to less than 250 euros. They will be paid a very large part by liquidating the basic payment, because the amounts of the advance will be added and those of the liquidation, and in any case the sum will exceed EUR 250. So a lot of them will be paid. What do we have? We have about two and a half thousand farmers who have had a problem. During the computerized cross-checking carried out, approximately a thousand eight hundred of those who did not fulfil the criterion of the active farmer, which was a basic condition for the granting of direct payments or legal persons, were identified, thereby excluding them. Also, some eight hundred - nine hundred were the ones who had not been cleared up by the Ministry of Finance for their last year's tax declaration and needed this. Anyway, the point is that we have also been in the process for them to be paid and paid for in the next payments. So we have paid to this day in five hundred and seventy - seven thousand farmers of 770,000. By the end of the year farmers still have to receive about 1.25 billion. So we're talking about payments over the last two billion-dollar period. It is not only the rest of the basic payment, it is greening, it is the balancing that we have already announced yesterday and there will be payments in the next few days. So the rural area, as I said before, will take over 2.1 billion over this period.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Georgiod, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u17	Minister, my question was quite clear and I wanted this from you: the payments made are well known to farmers. They're registered and we know them. What is required, however, is for some more farmers to really become clear that they will not be paid for in the next payments, that they will be paid in the next payment, in the payment that will be made on 15 December, as it seems. We are talking about the thousands of five hundred ninety-nine, in the OPEKEPE communication, which seems not to meet the criterion of active farmer, but the audit is carried out by the General Secretariat of Public Revenue, the nine hundred and eighty-one who are pending the test result of the active farmer's test, in which the Ministry of Finance has not been wound up, the seven hundred-seven, seventy-seven, seventy-seven, and the five thousand-seven-seven-seven-five, five-seven-seven, five-seven-six-seven-seven-seven, and the administrative control over the transfer of property rights has not been carried out. I'm talking to them. That is what is known for less than EUR 250, and that is why I did not mention it. But the previous ones, which are a few thousand, concern large amounts of subsidies and what they really want to hear and what I want to convey to the agricultural world in Kilkis is that this process - from what I understand, most of it - is the work of the Ministry of Finance, namely the cross-checking of the figures and the clearance of the register of active farmers. Because it is not the farmers who have delayed this, at least the overwhelming majority of cases. If someone didn't apply, that's another given. But here we're not talking about such cases. We're talking about delays on the part of the Treasury. I would ask you to be clearer about whether - as the OPEKEPE has committed itself - they will be paid for in the next payment 15 days. Not the next one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u18	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, I have told you that in this case of the two and a half thousand farmers we are currently in direct cooperation with the Ministry of Finance. We are investigating all the cases and what we are seeking is for the procedures to be completed as quickly as possible, and for this material to be updated by the Ministry of Finance. So OPEKEPE is ready, when he gets the particulars, to make the corresponding payments. We believe that, at the beginning, on 10-15 December - I cannot tell you now - the process will be completed. However, because this payment must be closed at least by the end of the year, we will have closed this issue. I think so, and a lot earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u20	Today you are in shape, Mr. Apostleu. The third question will be discussed with number 223/16-11-2016. First question by Evia MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the immediate payment of the compensation for 2016 by OPECE to beneficiaries. Mr. Micho, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, while it was originally announced that the 2016 balancing will be paid at the end of November, the OPEKEPE will defer payment for a month later. The allocation provided for is EUR 216 million in accordance with an amending decision published in the ‘DENMARK’. The main issue which arises and must be prevented, for the benefit of the beneficiaries, is a possible prolongation of the payment of the compensation. Can you tell us whether the announced time limit for payment of the compensation will be complied with in order to reduce the beneficiaries financially and to continue their activity without delay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u22	Here you go, Mr. Apostle.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u23	The delay will be a few days' delay, because yesterday's decision for 2016 increased the maximum amount that beneficiaries can receive for the compensation of mountainous and disadvantaged areas from EUR 100 per hectare to EUR 125 per hectare. In other words, a 25% increase. With this increase in mountain areas, the limit allowed by the regulation is exhausted, while the total amount allocated through the rural development programme for the compensation measure is increased from 216 million that we had foreseen, we are going to reach 244 million, which will be paid, I repeat, in the next few days. The main benefits of this increase in compensation are farmers, as livestock farming is the most important activity in mountain areas. At the same time, the Ministry has launched changes to the definition of disadvantaged areas, which will make the distribution of the corresponding allowances more rational. Today there are disadvantaged areas where there are mountainous areas with plains and, as you can see, there is to be some intervention in this definition. After all, there is also our obligation until 2018. However, I would like to clarify a few things: firstly, in the new programme there are significant changes to the extent of compensation to what was the case until last year, because of the European Union's regulatory framework, a framework that we are obliged to respect, so that we can absorb this money. Secondly, the beneficiaries of the compensatory scheme are not only the inhabitants of mountainous lessfavoured areas, but all the active farmers who have a farm in the areas concerned, whether agricultural parcels or pasture in mountainous disadvantaged areas. The threshold has also been abolished. In fact, what has happened is the funds - which I told you that we have exhausted the margin - to be allocated to more people, almost twice as much as the previous ones, which has its negative part that these beneficiaries of the previous period will get less, but this is a matter that we will balance with the related payments in 2016, where as far as livestock is concerned, and especially in these areas, the funds that concern them have been more than doubled. At the same time, however, with this additional intervention that we have actually found in mountainous areas, we will have satisfactory support for those who really need it, but also in an area in the countryside, the liquidity injection given by these procedures to more people and especially in a crisis period, I think it is a very important part.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Michos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. I hope it will happen as you said, that there will be no further delay. Do you know very well what farmers, farmers, what farmers are experiencing, and since you mentioned the farmers before it would not be right for your Ministry to come into consultation with OPEKEPE so that subsidies, compensatory payments, are given to farmers on time? One example I'll get you. The corn is harvested at the end of August, until October, the most lately we say. Would it not be right for farmers to take this equilibrium on time, so they can put in their warehouses cheap food? You know very well that once each product is stored, or zero is or barley is or corn is, it will upload its tariff once they open the warehouses from 0.3 to 0.4 minutes above. If the holidays pass, it'll be 0.6 and 0.8 above. People who have two hundred and three hundred animals in one unit need several tons of zeal, from corn, to have a proper diet. Would it not be right, then, for these compensatory or any other subsidies to be given on time, so would the farmer or, on the contrary, when he is going to sow, to be financed at that time, so that his cost would be lower? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u27	The aid to Greece is given much earlier than the time we take as a country. In fact, this procedure is done through a specific contract with a banking institution and we pay more ahead, with an average of about three months. He pays interest to the Greek State, because he pays the aid more ahead. Another part, however, which we must see that not everyone can ask each other - because there are problems - to extend the deadlines for submitting supporting documents, declarations, etc., because this extension then goes backwards and payments necessarily. It's a route that can't be done differently. So we have, as a basic objective, one thing. By putting order in the management of Community aid, we will pay each year in October - November - and this will be the two-month period that we will actually try, by paying all the aid at this time, to link it to other economic activities, which I am not at this time ready to announce.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u28	Please, where Mr Michos heard the words 'exotic' and 'exotic', to be changed in the Minutes with the words 'exotic' and 'exotic'. We move on to the discussion of the fourth under number 224/18-11-2016 topical question by MP Serres of the Democratic Compact PASOK - DMAR Mr.Michael Jeleighis, Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning Decision 924/21-5-2016 on the conditions for eligibility of the beneficiaries of associated rice aid. Mr. Jelloney, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, with regard to the application of the European Union Regulation 1307/2013 on related aid and in particular on rice - in accordance with your Ministerial Decision 924/21-5-2016 - from the experience we have on the crop paid in 2015, I would like to say that it was particularly problematic and caused serious problems for rice producers. I raised this issue as early as January 2016 - again with my timely question - because you predicted in your ministerial decision that, in order to obtain the associated aid, rice producers, i.e. EUR 26 per acre, would have to sell the product by February, i.e. invoice it. This means that there is a pressure, a blackmail, if you wish, on the part of producers to sell their products in a very short time. So this has led to prices falling down less than 50% over the previous year. In particular, for the grandeurs from 0,45 to 0,48 cents of the euro per kilo that was last year, in 2015 we went to 0,24 cents a kilo. Similarly, the same happened in the small esperms, which from 0.30 to 0.35 cents of the euro per kilo that was last year, went to 0.20 to 0.22 cents per kilo. In other words, while the producers would get from the tied about four minutes a kilo, actually by applying the associated one, they lost about 20 minutes a kilo. I now come to the questions of timeliness. Even now, the quantities are indisposed, and even there is no price definition, nor when the producers will be paid. "Get the product," the traders say, "we will invoice it and see when you will be paid." Since you have to give the link up to 30 June, and since today the producers and the three hundred thousand acres are already mapped in the OPEKEPE background and they know who the producers are, why not go this time by mid-May, so that this time limit can be allowed for rice absorption, not to pressure on producers, but also to have no price reduction? Because of the six thousand five hundred rice producers last year, only 70% were paid, i.e. the four thousand four hundred. The rest were not paid because of these weaknesses of your ministerial decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u30	Mr. Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u31	Mr Colleague, as indicated in the relevant decision, beneficiaries of the linked rice aid for 2015 were farmers who cultivate rice on eligible areas, provided that they deliver certain quantities to traders, cooperatives, mills by 28-2-2016 at the latest. That was the decision. In exceptional cases, however, as you described and provided through Union and national procedures, this decision can be amended and an extension may be granted by decision of the President of the OPECE. In fact, because we had floods, because farmers were unable to deliver, we decided that the delivery deadline for rice would be extended by one month and went on 28-3-2016. However, we need to see what has finally happened with the allocation of associated payments and how many quantities have been delivered. They have therefore submitted 6,365 farmers to deliver rice. Of them they delivered rice 4,868. The minimum delivery condition, because it was mentioned in the decision, i.e. 400 kilograms of the acre, was met by only 4,403 farmers. Given that we had a certain amount, a specific hectare price, we, having this national flank, shared these related aids by complying with all the conditions and depleted the sum of EUR 8 million. Therefore, it was not possible to do so because it was not planned to be greater in order to provide money to farmers who did not meet the conditions. A new extension of the deadline was therefore impossible to give why it was not possible due to the time. I told you before that this process of extension, second extension, third extension brings us out of time. And when we come out of time, there is a chance that we will lose the corresponding resources. It's very simple. Why do you insist on something you and yourself know that we can no longer overcome? Nor was there even the time necessary to process these data.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u32	Here, Mr. Jelloney, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. I guess, Minister, you don't understand the problem. A thousand five hundred producers could not invoice their products. With this disastrous ministerial decision, the price of rice in our country was down by 50%. What else do we have to tell you? You must change this decision, not give an extension, even though your Deputy Minister - who is no longer in your Ministry in January - committed himself to seeing every month how rice absorption would go and then make corresponding decisions. Do not give an extension every month. Go extension, as and out until mid-May, since you have to pay 30 June. Why this obsession? You are destroying a product in our country by falling prices below production costs that do not help producers to grow. Right now, do you know what's going on? See if a producer knows what price he delivers his product so that he does not lose the connection! All of this is linked to the policies that you are following at the Ministry of Agriculture, where instead of having a programming and drawing up a measure and a model of support for agricultural production, you really have imposed on the agricultural income a farm and insurance shoe, seized by your ideologies that will be truly devastating “roundup” for agricultural income, for agriculture, for the agricultural sector of our country. We are really asking here to see a unique agri-food product, how we use it, how the farmer will be competitive. You can see that the prices are below the cost of production. At least check strictly the imports that are airborne at this time from Cambodia, from Myanmar, from all Asian countries. Minister, I have told you once again that your position at the Ministry will unfortunately mark a course for the agricultural sector, not the development and support of the agricultural sector, but a disastrous course and a tombstone in the agricultural sector. On the other hand, I would also like to emphasise and listen to the citizens at the moment when they are following us that at this point in time there is an industry of intimidation and sues to the detriment of farmers for the mobilisations they made last year and indeed within them were the rice producers, so that it is not an issue. This time, then, we have massive sues at the expense of farmers for their intimidation, when last year's mobilisations were not mobilisations that posed problems for the other social groups. I can say it was in agreement with the police officers how the blockades are going to take place. But they have now remembered, in this period, to criminalize the social struggles of farmers. Why? Because you are afraid that now these social struggles, which will be made by farmers to claim their right to remain in the region, will also be the end of your government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u34	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is a phrase used by Greek society: 'In the same spectators' work. Last night we had a Committee on Production and Trade to discuss very serious issues with regard to international agreements. My colleague is playing the same work, which is constantly repeating it. Spray ears, do whatever you want. Our responses here will be documented and, above all, through a haunting that shows that there was nothing else to be done. There is a national flank in particular, conditions for farmers to get into the coupled aid, which shows the interest of the state in this sector. Those who had the preconditions, then, entered the deadlines, depleted the national plaque. The year's over. Let's go to the next one. In 2016, again, we have put rice as linked reinforcement. Finally, they too must understand that in this process they must also be themselves in times and, after all, absorbing that amount up to the last euro. That's our target. From there on, the rest, ladies and gentlemen, you have said so many times that it actually ends up what I said to you, 'in the same spectators' project.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u36	You'll see it very soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u37	We arrive at the last question about Mr.Apostolos, the number 104/13-10-2016 report by the Member of the Republican Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the extension of the rental of parcels from the neighbouring local communities of the former Agulinitsa Lake of the regional unit of Elia. Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I will be waiting for answers because you know this. And you are aware of this because, with my own mention on 7 October, I have notified you of the memorandum from the Presidents of the seven neighbouring communities of the former Agulinitsa Lake, and the Vice-President Ilias, Mr Georgiopoulou, had visited you on the subject we are going to discuss now. Minister, in the areas of the former Agulinitsa Lake and the former Moura Lake, which have been involving twelve local communities, the farmers of Elias have been cultivating for forty years on the basis of the 1995 Ministerial Council Act 97 into areas allocated to them. And I would like to inform you that there are livestock plants, industrial tomato, maize, peanuts and other products. Farmers have rights. They have invested and that is where their bread and family lives depend. You extended the leases until October 31st. The deadline has passed. We got you guys up to speed. There is intense concern because that is where these people's lives depend, and now they're in the air and they're waiting for an answer from you. Will you extend, as they ask, for a reasonable period of time? Will you consider subjecting these areas to the procedure of the law that you have voted on to establish the Agricultural Age Management Agency? Will you implement the previous law providing for moleculosis, which ensured the inhabitants of neighbouring regions? Tell us what you're gonna do. Give them an answer, because they have to prepare the fields, grow. They can't be any more in the air. We look forward with interest and we and the farmers are waiting for your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u39	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u40	Mr Colleague, as you have rightly said, and we know the problem and we will give an answer. But we need to make a few things clear. Indeed, a month ago the statute of the Property Management, Aquaculture and Equipment Agency was approved, the one I mentioned as the DIAG. In the next few years, the operation of the agency - the appointment of an administrative board - staffing, in order to start implementing the important work, which we have often mentioned and which is no longer the good and proper use of the Ministry's property in the interests of local communities. Therefore, the areas of the dried areas you say will be managed by the DIAGE, which, in cooperation with the relevant departments of the Ministry, will capture and try to solve other chronic problems that exist and, of course, do not concern farmers. The management of these real estates will take place with Law 4061/2012, some of the articles of which make sense to be reviewed according to the problems that will arise, so that we can solve them. However, this law already gives farmers, who are currently using these lands, increased molecules so that they can claim these land. This is not the time to mention what molecules exist, whether they have parcels from there or are from adjacent communities, from adjacent settlements. But, as you know - and they know it themselves - there is this moleculosis. In view of all that I have said to you, we shall proceed to the extension until October 2017 of the specific appropriations available. This will be done in order not to provoke - as the Presidents of the neighbouring local communities themselves point out by the letter they have sent out - a social turmoil. So that's gonna come into effect by then. But, as you know and we all know, that there are no unorthodox situations before the end of the day, and we will be calling the presidents sooner, we will discuss and co-decide how to manage them the next day. We could, for example, like the new framework law on cooperatives, encourage farmers to producer groups so that farmers in the region can participate with increased moleculosis. I would therefore like to make it clear that this extension is the last. I would also like to make it clear that we are not talking about granting ownership. Don't go through anyone's mind. Allocation of this use to the benefit of local communities. Ownership remains in public.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u42	First the good news and then the bad news. The Minister told us - and I think it is a good thing, Mr President - that the leases will be extended until October 2017. Only that is what I had to do - I do not now want to complain - to have been done, because, you know, Minister, farmers must slowly prepare the fields for the new growing season and are completely insecure. So we are waiting for legislation. We'll support her, too. Minister, you are well aware that, at the moment, production costs are increased for reasons that are linked both to exogenous and domestic factors, for example taxation, new contributions, lack of liquidity. One thing you must do as a ministry is to secure the agricultural land to the professional farmers, because we are at a time when there is an attack of interests on the agricultural land. I think you're aware of it. Therefore, any arrangement you make for the future must have this criterion. You've been two years now. You're not new. So you say that you voted for a law and made the statute the other day. Hey, when will this law be implemented so that there is a safe framework? You referred to the previous law, Law 4061, which gives molecules. It gives molecules to the users of rural land, the former lakes, based on the previous Act of the Ministerial Council, also gives the inhabitants of the municipalities and neighbouring communities the molecules with an amendment that I had tabled and which was accepted at that time by Mr Tsaftartis. However, improvements may be needed, as you and the presidents of communities, who have sent you the record, in order not to come from far away, serving other interests, to take away the land they cultivate forty years. You must ensure this through dialogue. But you've been government two years. When are you going to do it? In any case, bring in the extension so that we can discuss a framework that ensures, firstly, that we have larger lots. Law 4061, to which you referred, gives the opportunity for a hundred acres. Secondly, it will ensure long-term leases. The farmer cannot enter a field, improve it, carry his tools there and then a year later he can be insecurity. So we have these issues to deal with. Only we should not solve them when the opposition, doing its job, brings you here to the House. These matters should have been resolved already. However, I note, Mr President, that as a result of the energy of the region, the local presidents and our own here in Parliament, the Minister has today committed himself to extending the contracts of these parcels until October 2017. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory, after taking part in the Educational Programme "World Republic", organized by the Foundation of the Parliament of twenty-six students and their students and two educational attendants from the 5th Elementary School of Nea Philadelphia. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I also have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the bottom Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how Parliament is organized and operated, eleven Members of the House of Representatives of the Czech Republic. Dear colleges we welcome you to Athens. We welcome you to the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would ask the interpreter accompanying fellow Czech Members to inform them that no bill is being discussed, but parliamentary scrutiny is being carried out. That is why the honourable Members and the President-in-Office are present in the House. I note that, so that they do not form a bad impression on the image of the House. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u44	Mr Colleague, you have heard a good news. Keep it for you, too. Because if you start making discounts, you won't be transferring it with the proper phrase. Well, that's over. They have time for farmers to enter the farms and grow. From that point on, because you raised the question that we're late with the organization, to say the following: We tried to record as much of this property as possible. Honestly, I confess to you that this lowlife that has taken place around this public property is something else. Let me tell you, for example, that we've even had ownership concessions in Macedonian prefectures to build hotel complexes and we're looking to find them now - where they are - and who they are - and we don't find them. And, of course, we are constantly forced to withdraw these concessions, so that we can defend public property. On the other hand, they certainly need moves like the ones we talked about, like the previous one regarding the Neromill. There is, for our part, a desire to make use of these, because otherwise they will be devastated, because there is no other way. Imagine right now what happens with another property of the cooperatives, with the facilities, etc., that desert and we look at them and we need to find a solution. With regard to the other issues you have raised, look at them, do not raise the issue of taxation for farmers. Honestly, there is no such issue not only from 1-1-2017, where there is the known tax-free amount, which touches 11 000 euros, when at the same time 97% of farmers have incomes under this amount, not even this year this year. It's not the time. We are going to say the details of taxation. Now, for the specific moleculosis you mentioned, there is Mr.4061, which we shall apply. Indeed, his predictions help these residents. At the same time, we will, of course, come to an agreement with them, in order to tackle - I repeat - the phenomena of unorthodox procedure in the award and generally the crops of the region, in order to respond effectively to what you and we all want, that is to say, to make good use of them. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Minister. Before we go to the last two questions which the Minister for Migration Policy, Mr Ioannis Mousalas, will answer, recall that today it is St. Catherine's. Many years on behalf of the Bureau in all the parliamentary and non-parliamentary ceremonies, including my ninety-six-six-year-old mother. I haven't told her many years yet, I'll give her a microphone. So let's go to the fifth under No 242/22-11-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Migration Policy on measures to remove refugees from the islands of the Aegean. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Unfortunately, Minister, last night the tragedy in Moria, but also the provocacia in Chios, a few days ago, came to confirm our repeated interventions, appeals, or whatever you call them, on the immediate and urgent measures that should have been taken so far to deal with the situation on the islands. For the truth, I will submit in the Minutes a quote from a location to a previous question that had been asked. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Katsotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Minister, the situation on the Aegean islands is characterised by double caging of more than sixteen thousand refugees and migrants. Living conditions - we say this once again - are bad and delays in examining asylum applications, multi-months, with uncertainty about their fate. There are many consequences for the lives of the inhabitants, especially in Moria of Lesvos, Souda and Challenge of Chios, and Vathy of Samos. In recent years we have had murderous attacks on the camps. It is an organised provocation against refugees and the inhabitants of the islands. It is organized by fascist and reactionary forces, in particular by the enthusiastic, criminal organization of the Golden Dawn, which are devastated by the government's inactivity in dealing with them. The provocacia is manifested on the territory of the policy of the European Union and the Government, the unacceptable agreement between the European Union and Turkey. I know what your position is and we will discuss it. The government provokes this agreement. It has been banned in panacea to deal with the refugee - immigration issue, when the provocativeness of the Turkish Government is dangerously escalating against our sovereign rights. At the same time, Mr President, Minister, European officials are calling for the Aegean islands to become an advanced zone of double caging refugees and immigrants. With the policy of total emperorism of American and naval imperialism, the triumphs for the stay of the Natali armada in the Aegean, supposedly for refugees, the government is even more involved in the refugee - immigration - to the people- dangerous geopolitical plans of the imperialist forces. The question, Mr President, Minister, says: What measures will you take to ensure the immediate decapitation of refugees from the islands and then from the country, the closure of hot spots and the safeguarding of decent temporary reception and registration conditions, the restoration of possible damage caused by forced cohabitation in inappropriate areas and areas, the immediate treatment of provocative action of fascist and reactionary forces? We will be waiting for your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u47	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, forty-five students and students and four educational attendants from the 5th High School of Chalkida (first Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will agree with the Member of the Communist Party of Greece and SYRIZA will agree with him that for the refugee - immigration - not only now, but always in history - war is to blame, imperialism is to blame, capitalism is to blame. In the first part of the speech, therefore, we are totally in agreement. But let me tell you that we have to deal with this until capitalism is overthrown, imperialism is defeated, wars and all that. We are obliged to respond to the problem when it is happening. To have a theoretical debate on capitalism, imperialism, war, peace, fair distribution of wealth - we are a very nice company - is very useful at academic level, but it does not help the Greek people, it does not help refugees, it does not help immigrants. I will agree with you that events in Chios can only be associated with the fact that they took place on the days when the Golden Dawn MPs and Golden Dawn officials were there. These are events that were based on a real basis and were incited after other reactions. We had dropping molotovs from the castle. I think the police are investigating them. It would be useful to address your question there too. Replies should be given because there is a clear correlation between the utilization of the difficulties in Chios by fascist and far-right elements and is directly linked to the presence of Golden Dawn. We won't lock the islands away immediately. The Europe-Turkey Agreement, which is a very difficult agreement and we never tried to banish it, was the best deal we could get. We wanted more. But he helped us. It has so far escaped our country from a number of hundred to a hundred fifty thousand refugees and immigrants. The islands won't become a warehouse. As far as Europe is concerned, it is true that part of Europe - certain leaders, certain countries - have this project. So far, Europe has been opposed to this plan. The government's position is that this will never happen, and I am sure that we will have with you and the parties in the democratic arch. Finally, I would like to say to you this: without intent, because you can only be blamed for the absolute honesty that your life and your struggles give you, keep the truth from the islands, depositing half the truth. We could today take all refugees and immigrants from Samos. This would mean, against our will, a break with the Europe-Turkey Agreement and Samos, Chios, Leros, Mytilini would go to last year's situation. The refugees and immigrants would not leave. It would come every day a thousand five hundred and two thousand in Samos, two thousand to four thousand in Chios, fifteen thousand in Mytilini. And we'd do what? Last year. We will try to stop this. I will then reply to Mr Sevastakis that decapitation, which we can do, has been a success in Chios. We've retired to the mainland about a thousand five hundred people. Samo starts on Monday. In Mytilini it also starts on Monday. We bring families to Athens, to the mainland, who are not judged to be returned to Turkey, such as vulnerable, minors, etc. This doesn't become a scream, but slowly. This will help reduce the number. I hope that the support of your party, which, from what you have said, will not have it, that, in order to improve the living spaces and stop tragedies, new camps will have to be given so that the population is diluted. If this is not done, the conditions will be tragic and we want to heal it. We have had this plan for three months, which is similar to the fact that local communities have adopted, on the basis of real problems, a populist position, which the refugees have been saying should leave the islands. The refugees and immigrants are not brought by the government to the islands, and you all know that. If they leave like this, they'll come back multiples. I would like another minute, Mr President, to express my regret at the tragic event which took place in Moria yesterday. It was an accident that could happen anywhere. It has not happened anywhere, but in Moria, it is burdening the situation, it is making us much more saddened, and it is much more sense of our responsibilities. I would like to appeal again from this step on the islands to help to create better conditions for these people there. This is good for the islanders as well and at the same time we also start the 'capitulation' of those who can come to the mainland without jeopardizing the agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u49	Because of the seriousness of the matter I have left more than twice as much time for the Minister. If the answer is in common with Mr Sevastakis, do not repeat them. Say what's in common answer so we don't need more time. Before I give the floor to Mr Katsotis, I would like to inform the House that Mr Georgios Koumoutsakos is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from 27 November to 28 November 2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u50	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u51	Minister, it seemed to me that you are blackmailing the inhabitants, as Erdogan does with Greece and Europe. That's what you did now. In other words, you said: 'Don't shout, suffice on them, because they expect us to be worse'. So, decapitation will take place in the second presence when imperialism is suppressed? So, living conditions will get better when the war stops? Will all these tragedies stop here when these developments exist or are you due now to take steps? Are you avoiding your responsibilities? The responsibilities are completely yours, because your Government, Minister, has closed borders to the European Union. With the government's assent, they have not shut down the borders in their own way! The Government agreed to the decision of the European Union. With the implementation of this agreement between the European Union and Turkey, the result is what we are seeing today on the islands where the islands live. Minister, in the event of the total collapse of the agreement, as you say, the islands will, of course, pay it, because it is in this region. There will again be the concentration zone of these intimidated people. But, Minister, the responsibilities are neither those who leave the war nor the islands who accept all this pressure from the refugee. The responsibility lies with the government and the European Union, with the decisions they have taken. You say that if the deal goes down, it'll be worse. What do you propose, Minister? Why should those who have taken political asylum, even temporarily, not leave the islands? You don't even send them away, Minister. You've got them there, trapped. Tell me, how many applications for civil asylum are going on the day? What measures are you taking in this, so that this situation can be disembodied in the islands? What measures are you taking to ensure that the accommodation spaces are temporary? You have made them permanent and even with scenes of summer. And this tragedy was fortunately not extended yesterday. Of course, here we express our deep regret. But it is your responsibility and this tragedy which has unfortunately not been extended, as I say. How many scenes were burned yesterday? One by one, four and a half thousand people in Moria! How many does it take for how many is Moria? Tell me! How many are the other areas? Can this situation not be disembodied and say that there is no solution? How is there no solution?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u52	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u53	Finally, I should like to say - and yesterday I disturbed you, Mr Minister - that he went on a tour of the JRC with his MEP here, in Ritchona, in Oinofytas and there an employee of an American NGO, of 'Do Your Part', forbade entry to a Member. Where? There in Richon. What are the NGOs here? State in the state? Who gave them such jurisdiction? What's your responsibility for this disgusting behavior?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Katsotis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u55	I shall conclude, Mr President. What do you say about that, Minister, the attitude of NGOs and all those culminating there in hot spots? In any case, we believe that things need to evolve differently from what you have decided to do so far, Minister, because the inhabitants also require it, but the living conditions of these devastated people must be improved.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u56	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u57	More issues have been raised in dentology than in protology and it is difficult to answer all. We're not avoiding any responsibility. We are committed to our responsibilities consistently and with very hard work we are trying to implement them. Your attitude does not help because it is not enough to say better conditions in hot spots. There's got to be room, there's got to be houses. And to do this, there has to be room. In order to increase the staff of asylum, there must be room. In order for EASO to return, there must be further security. So we are again in agreement with the general party. In the special place there is a complete lack of proposals, apart from one thing, "those who want to go inland, those who want to come to Greece". It can't work like that for immigration - refugee. It has never worked like this in the so-called 'country of existing socialism' in the years of existing socialism. There is no one, but there is no one - and I challenge you to bring - an official, theoretical or state text from the regimes of existing socialism, which says what you say about immigration - refugee. There are, on the contrary, many theological texts mentioned in this way. Mr. Katsotis, what do we do about Ritchon? A quarter later, you came in. An official's relentlessness does not determine the government. This is the first time in our country we have created a register of non-governmental organisations. Checking on them is spreading and we are trying to work with them and we are trying money they have taken for Greece to stay in Greece. I conclude by rejoice - we are making the effort - that our islands return to the behaviour they have shown last year in order to avoid them and the country from reliving last year's events.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u58	And we close today's parliamentary control session under No 230/21-11-2016 topical question by Samos MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Sevastakis to the Minister of Migration Policy on the implementation of measures to address the prolonged refugee - immigration crisis in Samos. Mr. Sevastakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u59	Thank you very much, Mr President. In the background of Samos over two and a half thousand refugees have been gathered, Minister, next to a city of six thousand. The huge delay in the control of asylum arises not only from meticulousness but from a centralised bureaucratic diligence. The slow ways in which asylum structures are managed and the slow processing of requests creates a suffocation. This suffocating situation is intensified by the serious differences in culture and behaviour between the refugees affected by the most patients, the most vulnerable of them. There is also one problem: Total discomfort, total social instability now spreads to the average citizen, and until now it was limited to marginal, violent, extreme groups. In this context, I would like to ask you what direct actions are and what is the clear timetable for the decongestion and movement of a sufficient number of refugees from the centre of Samos, the hot spot, but what is the Ministry going to do to speed up the asylum and refugee controls effectively and to define a permanent administration, not occasionally, of the Samos reception and identification centre. In my dentistry, I'm going to further develop the subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u60	Because I believe that there is no other policy for Chios and another policy for Samos, you have already answered many things, Minister. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u61	Mr Sevastakis, you are right about the fact that asylum is moving at a rate disproportionate to the problem. I do not think you are trying to lay the blame on the government, but that is something that is explained and what is explained is different from'justifiable'. Progress in asylum will continue for this month too. There is no point in telling you that in June on your island there were five asylum people, today we have eleven people and fourteen more recruitments by the end of December. The response rate has doubled and we want it to be quadruple. Right now we're on a basis that the competitions should go and people should come, because you know that in the last competition we got fifteen people and quit the eight the next day. They don't want to come to the hot spot. The circumstances are difficult. Efforts from the government are therefore made. There is a mathematical model of asylum development. It's a legal service, it's internationally like this Chinese game that, if you put a stick above or pull a stick down, it could suddenly collapse. But you are transferring our assurances to Samos that we are making an effort so that we can make an overall effort on the islands - also using Samos - to have from December about a hundred with two hundred returns a week. This entails asylum, appeals, etc. This will get a geometric progress from January. It will not solve the problem, but it will bring about a very great relief. We're trying to shut Samo down. From Chios, I told you how we did the decapitation. Monday this is organized in Samos and Mytilini. Already since we talked to Maximou, we've pulled from Samos over five hundred people who deserve it. But let me tell you this. Firstly, you say what we will do for vulnerable people. Mr Sevastakis, I had no complaint about the hotel owners' decision not to give hotels for vulnerable people. You raise the question of how to make better conditions. I'm sure you'll be with me at the port when we bring the new houses to put them on the hot spot. You say: the conditions are bad. You joined the mayor, the vice-president, and not the district commander, so that no room is given to build a closed center, that no room is given for the conditions to be fixed. I'm sure this thing will be rethinking. Finally, I'm telling you we're making a huge effort. She'll show up for Samo. We need to change the situation. They have to stop the populist slogan - I said it before - to affect the population. There one will expect people like you, with your racing experience, to step forward and oppose these populist slogans, as you did last year and give all this help. It will also be expected to distinguish last year's misfortune on the islands, the difficulty of this year's - it is very small in relation to last year's - from the attempts to bring us into the situation that has been mentioned here last year. You know, Mr Sevastakis, there was a small part of the population, but organised now, when the islands were unhappy, that was rich. You probably know that in our attempt to transport vulnerable people to a hotel, the hotelier, after the hotel Chamber decision, did not give rooms for vulnerable people, asked the person for 75 euros a day. We will be very happy to await your complaints.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u62	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u63	I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u64	Minister, because it is my question too, in your dentistry, tell us how many of the four hundred experts, who the Brussels bureaucrats have promised to send, have come to know when we are moving, and how well the finger is also in their duties. Here, Mr Sevastakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u65	I think they've come under thirty. That's how I remember.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u66	Thirty-six.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u67	Thirty-six. Minister, you're saying moving means the collapse of the deal. In Article 14, in the second paragraph, it says that the commander may, at times of pressure or alternatively move from the reception centre to the inland. The agreement itself therefore includes this possibility. Secondly, when the agreement was made, there were six hundred or seven hundred in the reception centre of Samos. Today there are two thousand seven hundred. So we are basically protecting the violation of the agreement. This is the only way the population of these people has increased. And because the islands are closed systems socially, economically and in terms of infrastructure - the hospital, let us say, is the first structure, which is very hard hit by loads which cannot be managed - the islands are unable to unload and assimilate large numbers. Therefore, the logic of 'I constantly increase reception centres' seems to me to be unsustainable. You understand that, too. I don't have to take into account the decision of the hotel chamber. You did well to report it to me. I would also like to express my regret at the explosion in Moria. But it could happen in Pagcrat too. It's not an incidental matter. However, quality of life, violence, intra-violence and the way in which the population is mobilised, or is concerned, is not something that is repressively resolved. It is resolved by means of analysts and, above all, a climate of confidence. I am sure, although I know you are pressing, and you and the government in many respects, both from the European side and from Mr Erdogan's side, it is obvious that it is bringing too much pressure to bear. However, I am sure that practical solutions, such as those described and supported by Article 14, can be given and must be given. The islanders in the summer had heard you say "not second hot spot" and now they are in a position to hear that there will be a multiplication of centres. I have the impression that the cultural division of groups and the dismantling of groups can take place. And I think that's how we're gonna win the big bet we won last year, when we didn't even have half the cases of racism.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u68	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u69	Mr President, with regard to your question, I have not ceased lately at the European Council, the European institutions, the House and the interviews, to state that of the four hundred people that have promised us have sent thirty-six. Finally, we made a deal to send us a hundred and we're still waiting for her.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u70	I'm sure of that. Just listen to them and not get too much of our minds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u71	You're right. It's what you said, too, that we can't be shaken by the finger with so many labors and so many sacrifices. Mr Sevastakis, you should have considered the hotel owners' decision, because I said it to you publicly at the meeting we had in Maximos. You should have kept this in mind. Mr Sevastakis, the proposal you are tabling in this House is self-evidently the proposal of the mayor and vice-president. The proposal you put to Parliament is the proposal that jeopardises the agreement, which is the political decision of the SYRIZA. The suggestion you're tabling in the House for political separation...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u72	Cultural.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u73	Cultural, yes, you're right. Cultural, racial, religious. It is a proper proposal, which stumbles on the refusal of local government to put in new space to make better living conditions. That refusal is yours too. The problem that arises is in the denial of local government to build a closed centre. That refusal is yours too. You want to be made inside the hot spot, which will cause episodes all the time. And then you'll ask questions about the incidents. I forgot to tell you the following on the question, because I think the question is a pretext and the rest is the point. The commanders have been approved. The competition's over yesterday. Next week they will be selected and appointed at all centres. But I would like to tell you that the centres were not without governors. There was the commander of the army and there was always someone from the reception service. It was not a system that operated perfectly, but it is not that they had no governors. However, in your right question for the governors, we believe that the next ten days the competition is over and will be appointed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u74	The topical and urgent debate is closed. Before entering the legislative work, which is the continuation of yesterday's bill, there will be a 20-minute interruption. So at 12 noon we'll come back to the House with a tolerance by 12.10. We have a few speakers left since yesterday. If we go calmly and together, as yesterday, I imagine that at 15.00 p.m. we will have completed the debate on the draft law with Mrs Gerovalis. Thank you very much for the cooperation. Have a nice weekend. [[DISCLOSURE]] Changing p.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the discussion and vote of the draft law of the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction: ‘The Single System of Mobility in Public Administration and Local Government, the obligations of the persons appointed in the positions of Articles 6 and 8 of Law No.4369/2016, incompatible and preventing cases of conflict of interest and other provisions’. Before entering the debate, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, forty-eight students and students and three educational sessions from the 5th High School of Chalkida (second section). We welcome you, children, to the Greek Parliament! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are starting with the parliamentary representatives. Mr Amyras has asked you to prioritise Mr Katsikis as a result of miserable commitments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u76	Of course, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u77	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u78	You want to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u79	I just want a legislative improvement to do, to say it at the beginning.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u80	But let's say it soon, because Mr. Katsikis has asked us to...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u81	Just one second, Mr President, so that Members can take it into account.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u82	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u83	There is a legislative improvement in Article 24. All operators who already have an electronic signature system, SEE, do not abolish it and change their working mode, are simply interconnected with the new central system and continue without interruption. In addition, a large scale economy is being provided through this intervention in the procurement of the new electronic signature programme. I'm making the legislative improvement. [[At this point, the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, Mr Olga Gerovasili, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned legislative improvement, which reads as follows:]] Change Page To enter page 77 Change Page
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Minister. Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Konstantinos Katsikis, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u85	Mr President, I will not need them. I shall try to be very brief about the time economy, since I thank both you and my colleague for his understanding and the priority that he has given me. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, over the past five years efforts to control and reform public administration have been continuous, without planning, without a future expectation, fragmented and, above all, commemorative dictated. Let us remember: the introduction of rule 1 in 5, that is to say, for every five civil servants who would leave could be hired. The implementation of the work reserve by which experienced and competent officials have been made redundant. The institution of availability and others, mainly aimed at reducing the scope of the public administration. This draft law attempts to create a uniform framework of mobility between services belonging to the general government and to harmonious coexistence of the fulfilment of the service needs with the right of the staff member to mobility. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it is the conviction of all the wise people that we need to reorganise public administration. The chronic illnesses that have maintained all political systems have unfortunately led to the present deadlock. This applied mobility process is characterised by a lack of centralised planning, a lack of transparency and objectivity guarantees, based on a fragmented institutional framework, by the absence of criteria for assessing the needs of staff and by a supremely huge bureaucratic burden. In the context of a modern administration, it is imperative that a single mobility system should be established, with uniform rules for all officials serving in public services, i.e. legal persons governed by public law, local authorities, first and second degrees, as well as private entities. The basic, substantial and democratic innovation of the new system is the introduction of the voluntary nature of mobility and the possibility for each employee to have access to all posts to be covered. The full length of the procedure shall be governed by transparency from the publication of the posts to be covered until the signature of the final decision on the transfer or secondment of the staff member. In this way, it provides increased guarantees of objectivity. The establishment of a timetable for the completion of mobility procedures, as a maximum time limit is set in the quarter from the closing date for the submission of applications, shall exempt officials from an endless and incomplete expectation, which shall act positively in their service. In addition, this draft law proposes arrangements concerning the incompatibilities and obligations of persons operating high administrative positions. It is noted that, under the law, transactions within public and private spheres should be governed by the principles of good faith and impartiality. In a modern public administration, which after the entry into force of the n. It is expected to be characterised by, among other things, greater in relation to the past high-level public-private mobility in the private sector and vice versa, the introduction of control procedures to protect the principle of non-discriminatory action by the administration is necessary, but also in order to prevent the phenomenon of ‘turning doors’. Furthermore, the proposed arrangements of this draft law should improve the services of the State to the citizen, such as, firstly, speeding up the administrative work, secondly, increasing the efficiency, efficiency and administrative capacity of the public administration, thirdly, depopulation of public administration and, fourthly, rationalising and simplifying decision-making processes. On this point, let me make a comment, in particular Article 25 of the legislation, Minister, on which we should focus. This article relates to the recruitment rate for laundry or laundry children in the public sector in the context of support for this sensitive population group, which since 1997 has been considerably reduced when this percentage was first adopted. So we think it should remain undisturbed. This is because, given the reduction in the number of luxurious families with 20% preserved, they will have access to the public much less people in real numbers. Let us not alienate them from the few remaining benefits and motives in an existing nightmare landscape. We therefore propose maintaining 20% of the coverage of the public sector's positions by multitude or children of luxurious families. So when we are all aware and accepting the urgent necessity of redistributing staff throughout the public administration, which is not a simple or minor issue, but a crucial and maximum of state organisation and operation, I would ask you all to support this important instrument of mobility. Its establishment will contribute to the optimal management of human resources and, therefore, to increasing the efficiency of public administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, on this point I would like to make a statement to this House. The Ministers of Economy and Development, Home, Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Economic, Health, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Culture and Sport, Environment and Energy, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food and Administrative Reconstruction, Deputy Ministers of Economy and Development, and the Deputy Minister of Finance, submitted a draft law on 25-11-2016: ‘Simplying business procedures, removing regulatory obstacles to competition and other provisions’. The above draft law has been classified by the Government as urgent and is referred to the appropriate Standing Commission. For 15 minutes, Mr. Georgios-Dimitrios Karras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u87	I think I will be quick, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u88	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u89	Mr President, are we going with the Members' list, as it was yesterday?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u90	Mr. Georgiadis, Mr. Karras did not speak yesterday and he will speak today. The list of speakers will be followed. Here, Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity to speak this morning because I did not have the opportunity yesterday to speak as rapporteur on the bill. Mobility - and I shall express a few personal thoughts here - as an institution whether we like it or not always has an ideological foundation. It recommends showing political intent of the respective ruling party. We have therefore met in Greek mobility legislation in the sense of moving entire sectors to other areas - I would remind you of the movement of municipal police officers, who have so far not been dealt with in the final way, this is a side of mobility ideology - and the current government has the ideology that mobility should be voluntary. Yes, then, to accept that mobility should be voluntary. I have, however, expressed my most severe doubts for this reason. Is the legislation before the mobilisation of the real restructuring and reform of the public administration? What do I mean by that? It says in the law itself - and in many cases cancels its content - that organograms will be created, there will be job profiles and, when this is done, the institution of mobility, which is now called on to support, will come to an end. I also told the committees, ladies and gentlemen, that I find it really premature, because if we had formed a picture of the number of posts, if we had established a picture of the number of specialties, whether the specialities would serve modern situations and needs of the public sector or still exist - and we all know that there are - outdated specialities, which, for reasons not as historical as many times and which serve friends, are maintained, we could see whether the institution of mobility as it stands or not. I have supported the view that this bill should come later. Mrs Thalleritis made an attempt yesterday to supplement it - and I would call it a correction - and she said that the government is already working on it - as she knows - on the issue of agencies, the issue of organograms. Let's hope so. We cannot commit it. And we cannot commit this to the general situation in the country, which I cannot say today is the best. Let's go to a few comments on the institution of mobility as it is introduced. It says: Where 50% of the posts of a service are covered, more than 50% will be able to apply to the competent authority to move within another service, either in another Ministry or in another body of the general government, even to a legal person under private law. 50% creates a reflection for me. How does that test come up? Does the 50% criterion follow a study and standards? Does it come out after real diagnosed that we have in the Ministries' organizations, in the agencies of the over-crowded organic position services, on two? That answer gives me 50%. When we are able to move it by more than 50%, it means that the establishment plan is twice as many places as those necessary to serve the service. I have not been persuaded at this point too, and for the reason that it seems that there are other services, whether there are other services or other shortcomings. So 50% is a stable numerical criterion, but unstable in reality. Similarly, 65% for the small municipalities, Minister, has the same instability. They set examples of the mayors who came to committee and were kind enough to give their views. Therefore, this is an unstable criterion. It doesn't matter. We have said that in principle and in these articles we will not vote on the bill. We have explained - and I supplemented our ideological position on the issue today - that the movement of the two major parties, the right and the left, see it with a different eye. On the right they see her as a group move, and the Left Volunteer. But that is not the solution for a well-functioning public administration. The solution would have been to create standards. I have asked the committee whether there are any standards which will lead to the drawing-up of correct establishment plans. I didn't get any answers. The only answer I have received from the representative of the CEDEFOP is that the EBRD, the private company of the CEDEFOP, has done a private study - it has no institutional character - for the municipalities and will probably follow it. But this is also the absolute distinction of every municipal authority and not as a statutory obligation, so that it can be checked. A second question raised in the same bill is the incompatibility and protection of the public interest, the conflict of interest, as referred to in the second part of the bill. As regards the incompatibilitys here, I have already expressed an up-to-date opinion. Incompatibilities are justified, in the report accompanying the bill, by the exclusion of ‘revolving doors’ to the public. In 2016, do we want a house between public and private sectors? Do we want to close the door, can't the one who's inside, but can't the one who's out, too? The Customs Office Act prohibits the right of a private person who has the manager's knowledge to make an application to register. Why, who come from the so-called wider sector? The retired and the university teachers. Of course, university teachers will do well to maintain their educational work and not seek any new jobs, because in the end we will be left behind in education. Let me not recall - I was thinking automatically - that being a new Member of Parliament a year ago when I heard the number of posted teachers in primary and secondary education, even in metropolitan areas, I was scared and said that training with this figure cannot function. So I asked the then Minister what he would do - why he brought in a provision for the credits of alternates - and why he is not attempting to reinstate themselves in education. Remind me what he said to me? It's been recorded in the Minutes. They've forgotten, he says, of the many years they've been seconded, how they get in and how they teach. Is the same thing going to happen here now? I don't know what's gonna happen. I don't want to be a master of evil. I just want to pick up a few thoughts. I shall therefore return to the question of executives. I do not personally agree - and I express a very personal view - with the so-called'spinning door'. I want it open so that the successful private sector manager can also run a public company, a public body, because now the public sector is counting on it otherwise we in Greece. We measure the participation of GDP in the public sector with payroll costs and operating revenue costs. Has anyone ever tried to tell us the compensation of this expenditure resulting from taxation or from loans from the state? Never. At least I haven't heard. I will be happy to hear an answer about whether the remuneration has been measured, what the public administration offers to GDP, not just wages, and not just operating expenses. Let's go down. I have said, therefore, the promoted view - and perhaps a little comment - that we should also bring the lobbys to Greece. It was an impression. I therefore support at this point that it is the only institution for transparency. The only institution for transparency is that, whether we want it or not. And why am I saying that? They are preliminarily apparent pressure groups. We know who is doing this work, we know where they are paid, we know what interests they are serving, while with the exclusion of the private sector, even in the incompatibility, we do not know who is often friendly to certain interests and often we do not know whether this amicable disposition comes from foreign exchanges. I will insist on this point and repeat my thoughts. Legitate lobbys at some point, know who serves who, who is paid by who and who is paid by who below - takes the pressure and how it responds to lobby pressure. There we will have a picture of whether there is transparency or not. All the other points are blurred. In the same provisions - I am trying, Mr President, to respect my commitment to time - yes, there are obviously positive provisions. Mr. Saridis will be placed. I note only one point raised by Article 36. There has been a lot of talk about fish scientists, biologists, who are and who are not. And tell the truth. Aquaculture is unfortunate in Greece. We may have a large number of jobs, we may have everywhere, in every bay or bay of Greece, aquaculture, but we do not have businesses with a positive effect. The three big ones are known to the economists who have suffered, to what hands are they - these funds that are currently covering their operation - and what national or international banks in the end cover them or not. Anyway. However, because the issue of aquaculture in fish scientists and biologists is a scientific issue, we have the opinion - and I personally - that it was good to maintain the previous regulation with the hierarchy: first, the fisherman followed by the biologist. Today it says a legislative improvement that scientists are equal. I do not question their knowledge and authority. But I'm not in a position to answer if they're the right ones for this object. The word "scientific" gives me a certainty, has a cognitive field, has received an education that at least I hear it related to the work it does. In the words 'biologist', my mind goes to research centres, to a number of others which I do not know who is. Anyway. So I think it would be appropriate if it were to be the case where there was a legislative improvement, that it would not submit the certificate from the university, that we should stay in the old regime, to see how it worked and why change is needed today. This change makes it feel like it serves another maliciousness that Greece has. It has a large number of graduates in schools that often do not contribute to the economy. I won't talk about the TEI issue. The equivalence of diplomas was set yesterday. We said a lot yesterday. But I have a feeling there's a large number of scientists. So what do we do? We invest in foreign economies, without response. With the crisis, four hundred twenty thousand left - if the number - young scientists, with graduates, with doctors, distinguished. The Greek citizen paid, paid the state, paid the taxpayer. Germany, America, England, which will benefit from their services did not pay. They didn't pay. But they get the profit. Because the profit is they use them, they use them. They also take the tax revenue from the work offered by our people there, they take the insurance funds, and we will soon be looking for a Christian to do any work and we will not be able to. To conclude, I would like to say that the reduction in the number of multi-texts is also good to strengthen. Why would he get 20% down to 15%? Of course, 5% is added to the SME, but let's look at the special categories. Finally, for the defence systems, there is a good amendment. I consider it a positive amendment, of course, to the officials of the Ministry of Culture, the archbishops. At least some time to guard the archaeological sites, open the museums a few hours more. The other one comes from Japan and finds the Acropolis closed. He says, but I came to the Acropolis, I didn't come to see the Constitution. She's not seeing her. So let them open up, too. And with the motives that I have said in committee how they should be dealt with, it is positive. On the issue now of the Greek Defence Systems Kalykory, etc. Mr. Vitch was kind enough yesterday to give me an answer. It's about workers' jobs, but I have a reservation. Not that we will not vote on it, we will vote on the amendment. I have a reservation for the future, in this way that we actually create personal positions - beyond the organic positions - we are opening up something else, even though they are netted out by five to one. We transport people where they may not be useful, because they have different specialties. Let us at least seek economic development, have job security and not through public evasion. Because in a short time, with the increase in the crisis that comes - I think it is certain - we will need to legislate further, more, vague positions and move on to blind positions. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Koutsoukos has the floor from the Democratic Partnership for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u93	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of Mrs Gerovas, I should like to begin with an agreement that all the governments of this House have, because the rest I will say relate to considerable disagreements. Today, which is the day against violence against women, we are united by the 1991 UN resolutions on the actions needed to eliminate this phenomenon which has nothing to do with physical violence, as violence can be verbal, psychological, emotional and, of course, in the conditions of crisis, uncertainties, civils, hunger and mainly insulting this part of the population. This is a direct violation of human rights, that is, what we are progressive citizens, we have to defend them in every way. I now come to what we are going to disagree. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the need for a rational distribution of human resources in public administration and in general in the public sector, which will ensure on the one hand the functionality and effectiveness of public services, staffed with the necessary staff and, on the other hand, will make it easier for workers, in the sense that there are so many, and there is no need to put them in an additional family adventure, is undeniable. We are violating open doors, if we are discussing this, and I must tell you that this debate has taken place many times in the past and there have also been considerable efforts for a mobility system that would ensure these conditions. In other words, rational distribution, with meriting and objective criteria, on a voluntary basis, so that the human resources can be pressed precisely on its criteria, its skills, its scientific knowledge and what is necessary for the functioning of the public administration. I will only refer to an important effort, without underestimating the others, of the late Resurrection of Peponies, which voted for an integrated framework of this kind - which, of course, was about the same as that laid down by the specific law we are discussing - which was not implemented. Why wasn't it implemented? It is precisely the same reasons why this will not be the case for the government. I do not want to blame Mrs Gerovali for her responsibility, except those she has from her membership of the government collectively. Responsibilities concern its predecessor, Mr Vernardakis, who has been denouncing this piece of legislation for so long in consultation and has not taken care to ensure the basic conditions for its implementation. Mr. Vernardakis spent the previous period opposing ADEDY, namely the heroes of the working class that you admired SYRIZA colleagues, you discovered they were traitors and fought you. That's where Mr. Bernardakis has been consumed lately. So I say the simple thing: ladies and gentlemen, what does that mean? It depends, in accordance with Article 4, on the drafting of modern new agencies, the assessment of structures and the contour of jobs. Is this government capable of doing this? Obviously, it is not because it has such perceptions that it has braked any evaluation procedure which would lead to the implementation of one of the conditions set by it. The second condition, ladies and gentlemen, is to do with Article 16, namely the digital platform where the new establishment plans, including the description of jobs, must be captured, and which, in my opinion, today, on the basis of what we know in the way the government operates will take too many terms, if ever, which this process actually refers to the bells again. But do you want me to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, what, in my opinion, is the most important thing that will lead to the bells of this piece of legislation? It is the same political impossibility for the government to implement reforms. Madam Minister, listen to me, because this matter concerns you personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u94	Madam Minister, if possible, we shall be following the speaker. Madam Colleague, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u95	The government's reformist weakness is obvious and I will now prove it in this document. When is this government effective? When her troika puts two legs in a shoe, we are voting here in urgent procedures, whether it is about the big national concessions such as the 100-year fund or the other concessions. When it comes to reforms, the government is exhausted by political fraud. We have adopted a piece of legislation on the register of management officials for some time here. We also argued that it should be written, opened and so on. What was the political deception? That the government was telling us that the Secretary-General will be appointed in this register. When the debate was over here in the House with legislative improvement Mr. Vernardakis baptized the Secretary-General as administrative secretary. What does this law provide for? It is provided for in Article 5 that two administrative secretaries, your Ministry, Madam Minister, and the Ministry of Interior are involved in the Central Committee. What do we see in the mid-term from voting this law? That the government appoints management officials by circumventing the register. We asked the question, and what are you answering here, Minister, with your signature? It is clear that the law to be implemented requires the assistance of several conditions and cannot be matched by the date of commencement and their operation. What does that mean? It means either total weakness or conscious undermining your own legislation. In other words, what you have said about democracy and the needs for reform in public administration, you are the ones who undermine them. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in order not to abuse your time, I support the fact that this government cannot have a national plan and a national strategy and cannot have a reformist inspiration, which will give society the feeling that something is happening in public administration, to inspire the same frustrated staff from the public administration, so that we can have better services in the service of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being held from the top Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organised and operated, forty-two ladies and gentlemen from the KAPI Karditsas. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u97	Mr President, could I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u98	You have the floor, Mrs Manolakou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u99	I would ask the Minister to give a list of the parliamentary amendments which he accepts and which he rejects, because in any case we are moving towards the end and the political groups must be prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u100	Madam Minister, it makes sense to request my colleague. Mr Christos Bukouros from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u101	Immediately after Mr Buquoir, I can say about the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u102	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u103	Thank you very much, Mr President. Since today is the day against violence against women, and the rapporteur is present, I should like to begin with something pleasing, expressing my satisfaction at the improvement of Article 36, which, if it were to remain in its original form, would certainly create great problems. But, Minister, from there on, I have no good news, because the bill, which is supposed to bring mobility to the public sector and public administration, will probably lead to total immobilisation, as long as it is inappropriate. Laws, Minister, have a compulsion. If the laws were voluntary, no one would apply them. Here the dominant element in this draft law is its voluntary nature. I have the impression that once again your government closes your eyes to civil servants and sends them the message that they will work in any place they want. That is neither reasonable nor feasible, because there is a lack of staff and that is well known. In any case, there are zealous and less zealous or disadvantaged positions and services. So when it is voluntary in character within an ideal contour, as you give us to understand from this draft law, which the government calculates that the organograms of services will be drawn up very quickly and will be accompanied by a contour of each position - a process which is a process of large volumes and time - and then the implementation of mobility will begin, I think that those who have in mind the reality of public administration can appreciate that we are talking about an inappropriate bill and not just because its voluntary nature is its dominant element. Madam Minister, have you considered what will happen if the establishment plans are completed and in any case run this bill and the positions of all the services located in urban centres, in envyed areas, in - if you like - advantageous services, what will be done with the services of the less favoured and remote regions? It is, of course, foreseen in the bill that you will give incentives to staff these services. You know, however, that any incentive to transfer to disadvantaged areas cannot outweigh the intention, will, the willingness of the employee to work in an advantageous area and much more in an advantageous service. I am afraid, Minister, that when the establishment plan process is completed and, of course, no strict standard is provided for supplementing the establishment plan and the contour of each position - you will find that all of Greece will not complete the establishment plans. But let's see it. And that will happen, Minister, because there are no strict regulations, strict orders, strict standards, how and when - I mean, in terms of timetable - an organisational schedule of services is being completed. We believe that this will happen with the public intensification services. No employee will want to go behind the guise to act as the slashbreaker between the public administration and the citizens, who rush there to regulate their affairs. Such services are IKA, taxes and other services. You realise that in a long time and if it is difficult to recover - and, in our view, very well - the Greek State will be able to continuously appoint these problems. I mean, he doesn't have a long life that you present today. Those who are in a hurry to benefit from the benefits will fill the grim positions from there and over with the retirement will be filled again. We will have a major problem with public intensification services and border regions. Of course, the government may think that this will happen in the distant future. But that's not the case, Minister. When a law becomes that wants to leave its seal in public administration, I think it should see in the future. From there on, there are also so-called audit services, such as the Public Administration Inspectors' Corps. These are services which are all composed of posted workers today. The management, inspectors and auditors of these services have not joined the mobility system, but the employees of these services are part of the mobility system. Of course, the Government says that they will, after they have been seconded, apply for a transfer and complete these positions, and that they will also have the advantages provided for by the law. I fear, however, that you have not taken into account the budgets of these services, nor the more general bureaucracy that will be created and we will return to the point where the officials, who will be transferred to the new services, are paid by the old ones. A series of other problems will also be created so that we will never have a clear picture. It creates immorality, Minister, this bill does not create mobility, because everyone will voluntarily move to cover the positions, as I said before. But you are also telling us about the Central Mobility Committee, the seven-member committee, that it will ultimately only be of an advisory nature. Together with the subjectivity of the interview and the increased role of the three-member committee, no one knows what will happen and if the legitimacy of these decisions cannot be controlled because of its massity. At the highest level, we think that too many problems will be created. Only one fact reassured our concerns, Minister. The fact that this law considers it impossible to apply it and we will vote against it, in addition to our disagreement on the purely voluntary nature of mobility. In other words, the fact that the public administration takes into account only the wishes of workers and not the real needs of all the services and all the regions of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u105	Mr President, I would like to take the floor to announce some amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u106	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u107	There are three amendments tabled by our Ministry. In one, under a general number 775, the State budget is to be included in the single system for the mobility of graduates of the National School of Public Administration and Government. It concerns graduates who are already serving in agencies outside the general government. The introduction of this provision aims to improve the use of school graduates. Their exclusion from the system would not be in the interests of the administration and would at the same time be contrary to the spirit and mission of the school. In the second, under the general number 773, personal positions are set up to address the problem that has arisen for some of the nominees of the 1998 written invitation to tender. They could not be appointed to date because the positions of the industry or the specificity of their appointment were not described in the existing establishment plans. These appointees will be placed in the health sector and the treatment, of course, is also extremely critical. The third amendment under number 774 corrects a failure of the provision, which provided for the possibility of reallocating the nominees of the AACP in 1998 only to those who had already been appointed. With the new correction, it will be possible to extend all the nominees of the 1998 AACC tender. From the parliamentary amendments tabled, Amendment No 760 concerns matters of the Ministry of Health and, in particular, of the CEDEFOP. It requires a series of consultation and study and cannot be accepted as it comes. Amendment No 761, also concerns a very serious issue, but it has a few complex procedures which cannot be dealt with by an amendment. Amendment No 763 cannot be accepted because it would recommend an amendment to the Staff Code. That cannot be done by an amendment. Amendment No 769, as I have explained to my colleagues, although it is reasonable, cannot be incorporated here, because it concerns matters of the Ministry of Justice, and we could not, by amendment, intervene with the Ministry of Justice. But we see it. This concerns both Amendment 769 and 770. Both are reasonable. I am committed to consulting the Ministry of Justice on these two issues, because I consider them reasonable. I just can't make the intervention at the Ministry of Justice without any prior consultation. Amendment No 762 is accepted, with only one change. The extension will not apply for one year, but for six months. I would ask that it be recorded in the Minutes. It's accepted, but with this change. Amendment No 771 is also accepted because of the great need to staff museums and archaeological sites.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u108	Excuse me, Mr. Amyras, but this is happening. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u109	And for one additional reason, as the Minister is my compatriot. It's Artine, of course, I, Janniotis, so between Continental solidarity! Thank you, Mr President. When we discuss, approach, plan, decide on matters of operation of the Greek state, it is important to have some findings in our minds. I always have, I would say, the following: The first finding is that the citizens are not at all satisfied with the way the Greek public works. I don't think I'm telling you anything unprecedented. The second finding is that, in the very service of the Greek State, there are the good civil servants, there are the bad ones, there are the willing ones. You tell me this is happening everywhere in life. The third point is that there are few civil servants elsewhere, where, possibly, I would say to you that we need them more and elsewhere are too few, where we do not need them. A few, for example, are in hospitals. The fourth finding is that the Greek State is expensive and counterproductive. This is not the responsibility of the civil servants themselves, but over time the governments, who, through a mesh of bureaucracy, pluralism and responsibilities, built a glaring Greek public, which should be worth much more than it costs. Fifth is not a finding, but it is a matter of my own. Jesus Christ himself came down and took over the function of the Greek public, a few things would work, very little, I believe. Let's go see now a little bit of the core of the draft law. Madam Minister, I think that by the fact that mobility is a volunteer, that alone - by 50%, I would say - weakens what you are going to achieve, what we all want and the Greek public needs, that is, that wherever there are needs to cover them with movements of civil servants. What's going on here, for example? Let's assume that a hospital has a great need for some staff and no one willingly wants to go. You can't move anyone unless it's an emergency, and only in the same ministry, the same county or the county. But if you can fill the void presented by another ministry, why wouldn't you? Let us look at another practical issue. What about, for example, the relocation and transfer of the officials of the Ministry of Finance to the Kerani building? I ask myself: we have a building that cost us - in the Greek state, I mean - EUR 70 million for the purchase, for its internal reconstruction, for what they need, we have EUR 221,000 per month, which costs us the maintenance and operation of empty spaces, and at the same time the Ministry of Finance gives EUR 230,000 per month for rent in various buildings that are housed when we have the building of Keranis. It has jobs for two thousand four hundred people, it has six hundred parking places and it seems to me who is stronger: the union of officials from the Ministry of Finance or the need to save the EUR 500,000 per month from rents that we now give and costs that do not take place in Keranis? But it's a matter of moral and political, I'd tell you. Who's in charge of the Greek public administration? The union or the need and the obligation of the Greek state to satisfy the need for the benefit of the Greek people?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u110	The union.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u111	So I'm waiting for a position and an answer, Minister, about what is going to happen with the Korani building and the relocation and relocation of the workers of the Ministry of Finance there. How are you going to deal with it practically? I'm interested in being practical and specific.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u112	Already relocated. They're inaugurated.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u113	Oh, no. You're not well informed, my colleague. I'll tell you this. Let's see how public administration works at its highest level. We have tabled questions - the Potami, I mean - in May - June 2016 to all ministries for the supervised legal persons of each ministry. Let's check the response time first. Only 70% of the ministries responded. Thirty percent didn't give us an answer. The answers to this 70% that came to us were incomplete. Listen to a few characteristic cases of supervised bodies from various ministries, that is, bodies, which are financed in at least 50% of their budget by the general government, namely by the taxes of the world, the direct and indirect: the Aegean Institute of the Law of the Sea and the Naval Law. This comes under the Ministry of Justice, it has an official and, as the answer to the question says, it has been "consisted" with Mr v. Regulation (EC) No 2839/2000. The regular grant for 2015-2016 was EUR 40,000. It was the government's 2013 decision to abolish it, which was, however, revoked. What are they doing in this Aegean Institute of the Law of the Sea? Be careful, I'm still in the Ministry of Justice: there are nineteen juvenile protection companies, only six are in operation. The others are like ghosts and raise resources? Third, Thessaloniki Urban Transport Council, which comes under the Ministry of Transport, Infrastructure and Networks. It does not have organic positions, yet it receives a grant of EUR 350,000 every year. Cultural Centre for Greek Police, Ministry of the Interior. He doesn't have any staff or buildings. What exactly does he do? I'm on it. National Centre for the Environment and Sustainable Development of the Ministry of the Environment. He has one employee and was funded for 2015 with 36,412 euros. I'm on it. "Greek Hydrocarbon Management Company", the Ministry of the Environment. He doesn't have any employees, he uses a licensed building from the Ministry of the Environment. I wonder: No employee, what's the building doing there? I'm on it. Hellenic Centre for European Studies. No employee. There's no board of directors. Offices have been evacuated. There's an expressed intention from the Ministry to abolish it. However, I am surprised that the EMCDDA, the Greek Centre for European Studies, was sponsored in 2015 with 137,000 euros and in 2016 with 100,000 euros. I only accelerated a few. If you look, you find too much of that. Madam Minister, we believe that a move to catch a place, that is to say moving a civil servant from one service to another, so-called mobility, should not take place on a voluntary basis, but on some criteria, of course not forced. You can't overthrow the life of an employee and his family - I don't talk about it - but we need to see what's important. Is it important to cover the need for society, where the civil servant needs, or not to unleash an employee, an employee? Furthermore, we do not see anywhere motivated by new civil servants who are pushing in, wanting to do things, want to evolve, and at the end they are swallowed by this block of immobilisation and responsibilities. In addition, we do not see any resistance to the indifferent civil servants. In conclusion, I will tell you that the Greek State will have to adapt to the Greek reality, because it is again in a non-Greek reality, to understand that, since the Greek citizens maintain the state's operation of EUR 57 billion a year, those who work either in a final or in an executive position in the Greek State must multiply them as a gainful gain in their work and not eat them, 'private' them and deceive them. That's what I had to tell you. The rest of Mr. Barriots will tell you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Dimitrios Koukoutsis from Golden Dawn has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to start with a small parentheses. I happened to attend some time-consuming questions that were discussed in the Chamber. Questions were raised about the hot spots on behalf of the KKE by Mr Katsiotis and on behalf of SYRIZA by the local MP of Samos, by Mr. Sevastakis. In a reversal of his speech, Mr. Muzalas, to a question from Mr. Katsiotis about what happened with the NGOs, he answered - listen! - what happened in the countries of existing socialism, plus the others he said. Watch an answer! To Mr. Sevastakis, when Mr. Sevastakis quite logically said about the social instability that currently exists on the island, Samos, where he is elected, and that she is spreading in the middle, in urban order, you know what the Minister said? He said: "You know, you, Mr. Sevastakis, were with the prefect, with the district chief last year and the mayor." It was, as is self-evident, with the local actors, with those who live in this place. He has lost sense of measure, the Minister, has lost contact with reality, lives in a glass world. I would suggest that he go to these areas himself tour. He is, dear, in favor of the Greek people he does everything, let him go and without escort and speak with the people who live around the hot spots. For today's bill, there must be no one who disagrees that our country really wants a public administration that is flexible, accessible to the citizen, a public administration efficient. The diseases and problems of public administration in our country are well known. The public officials - I repeat - are the main bodies of the public administration. It is therefore the questions of staff that are directly related to the functioning or even to the effectiveness of public administration. As far as positive provisions are concerned, this bill is not of a decisive nature, but of a more superficial nature. It solves some skin problems. With this draft law, with the mobility of employees, that is, it is assumed that there will be an effectiveness of the public administration, since it will allow the best management of its human resources and enable officials to have an active role in shaping their careers, as stated in the report. The bill is advertised that it substantially changes the public Charter in general, as it facilitates the movement of personnel by abolishing the dozens of signatures needed to date, and it is a precursor, listen, listen, listen, sweeping changes, since, after the completion of the first wave of transfers, the evaluation and positioning of the heads will begin. The recording of the needs of the services will be reflected in a single database where the positions offered will be introduced. On this basis, the mobility programme will be carried out three times a year as follows: The officials concerned, if they have the necessary qualifications, submit their applications, which are assessed and judged by a tripartite body of the acceptance service. Access to the platform will be given to all civil servants. The criteria for filling the position shall be specified by the Host Body. In case there are more than one candidate for the post, they will be modulated on the basis of their formal qualifications, pre-service, family status, training, education and so on. These are in general terms. But is that so? The candidates for relocation of civil servants will be assessed by a three-member body of the host institution. This will be managed by the Director-General and the Director-General of the Service to which the post to be covered belongs, as well as the Director-General of the Staff of the institution. The candidates shall be assessed on the basis of the relevance of their formal and substantive qualifications to the position they claim in the evaluation reports, their experience in a relevant subject matter and in any element of their personal record documentary evidence of the suitability of the staff member concerned. We were placed before, discussing the evaluation of civil servants. The most important issue for us, for the Golden Dawn, is the evaluator. In practice, who will be the assessor? Tripartite body with the three directors-general? Superintendents? Since the system of selection of heads - so far, that is, from what we have seen - has shown that he has pathogens, it is at least unfair to continue a situation which will assess them for mobility. In order for someone to have the right to assess, they must be themselves beyond question. We all know how the system works in practice with service directors. People who have been appointed and developed on party criteria are questionable whether others can judge, who can in practice be better and more qualified. Here is this element of subjectivity, which certainly affects the crisis. Why is this body only composed of these directors-general? Why? Why isn't it relatively enlarged? Why does it not involve public administration scientists? Why does it not include representatives of civil servants? Why isn't it something, anyway, that gives a guarantee of a worthwhile and impartial judgment? Who will judge what element of their personal record documentes their suitability? This creates a new committee, the Central Mobility Committee. This is a collective body with, I assume, I repeat, increased guarantees of objectivity, impartiality and knowledge. It consists - we know - of a Vice-President of the AACC as President, a member of the AACC. Again, in other words, people appointed, again representatives of the party tube, party structures and interests? This committee is supposed to have the final say for the whole procedure? While you want to make the procedure flexible, in practice you are going through it again by committee. Another committee, yet another creation of a new party structure? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, and I'll be done. For the first time, it is supposed to create digital imprints of all public bodies, by recording human resources. But is it possible in 2016 to discuss this? Is it possible that we do not know in Greece how many employees and how many entities we have? We are concerned that this bill is actually brought to bear, because the troikas are attacking you, who once, when you were opposition, you blamed them and now you're licking them. It is another product of the memorandum, and that is why we are voting against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say that today is the historic anniversary of the expansion of the Gogopotamo bridge and 25 November has been set as the day for the celebration of our National Resistance. Let me take note of the particular symbolic importance of the unity of action in Grgopotamos at that time. The single action of the resistance organisations is very important, as a message of unity, at every difficult time in our country. Thank you. Mrs Aphrodite Stavoulis from SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President. So, having reminded us of today's anniversary, I too, from this Step forward that I hope in the memorial ties that will be made on Sunday to finally listen to the pro-women and men of all kinds and simply fighting against the fascist occupation troops, rather than to some other general references that we have heard so far. So on our point. Colleagues and colleagues, I am truly impressed by the fact that a mere modernist, technocratic, I would say, a bill has caused so much confusion in opposition - deserveful and so much - and it has brought so contradictory criticisms, sometimes even from the same party. Others consider it very relaxed, because mobility is voluntary and not compulsory. But no matter how they try, they cannot, under the precursor of compassion for the needs of small island municipalities, hide the wolf longing to crush perpetuality and restore redundancies in front of which any transfer, of course, will be accepted. Until then, they would also be satisfied with an independent authority implementing objective criteria - certainly more objectively than those applied by their authorities and councils, until a moment ago, and they say so as to be directed at looters - in order to impose mandatory mobility, which they assure us will also be objected to. They prefer this tide to a simple and transparent process, by which a worker or a worker goes where he wants and needs it. Others consider the bill to be authoritarian, because, in case of important and urgent needs, it also provides for distractions for a particular time, but this is forgotten, and they do not consider it authoritatively what I have said. Others consider it a gift free, impossible to apply under the conditions it has. Let's get serious. The bill relates voluntarily, on the part of employees, to service mobility, which maintains at least 50% of its staff and 65% to ATT Is less than ninety thousand inhabitants, a service from the establishment plan of which there is a vacancy with a contour, which corresponds to the qualifications of the applicant or the applicant, according to the judgement of three-member Staff Committee, whose executives were neither appointed nor in many instances were appointed to SYRIZA, and for which the insulting distrust shown by speakers of counter-population is merely a characteristic of the qualities they seek, in order to select executives for such positions. Even more offensive is the repeated rendering of fraud and even unconsciousness, I would venture to say to the elected representatives of local government, whose overwhelming majority still does not come from the SYRIZA, for whom some consider that they will enlarge their organograms to trap as many officials as possible. The first thing to be forgotten by the critics of the bill is that the process is repeated every four months, so that any request was not met the first time, the next time, and any dangerous reduction, even more than 50%, was presented as a result of a departure, was soon covered by an increase. The second element that critics of the bill forget is that the whole process lasts less than six months. We all know in here that our offices do not fill them and our employees' working hours do not devour them as cases of officials who do not release them - and this is sometimes the case - nor, much more so, cases where the desired service does not accept them, but cases where, while everyone agrees to the transfer, this delays over two years because they need to be carried out by demonic procedures. Now it is becoming more obvious than ever who and why they want to maintain them, so that they continue to rear their clientele relationships, thanks to which they hope to return and to maintain them in the much-conscious power. If open electronic access to all elements and the follow-up of the process by trade unions and representatives of local government is added, it is understood that it will be denied the possibility of intervention by the major civil servants of the previous governments. Equally touching is the compassion of the anti-population for multi-population, coupled with the concern about the famous "democratic" which is threatened, from above five percentage points below, by the top five percentage points in the hiring of their tenants and children, and not by their own decisions, to be regarded as the children of the leftovers who are increasing their taxation, nor by their indifference to young people, who dare not make a third, not a second, but a first child, because they have no job. The acquisition of children is a right, not a 'working toward the nation', and as we defend it. Others are trampled! However, where opposition was unleashed they are in the limitations imposed by the bill on the transition from private to public sector and vice versa. When the whole of Europe sees such scandalous changes in certain characteristic cases - but they tend to become general - and the Union institutions are preparing answers to block the 'rolling door' here, some people forget how long they want 'to stay Europe' and they are suggesting - listen, listen! - exclusion on the basis of party status. Apart from the obvious violation of a constitutional right contained in the proposal, its enthusiasts have not clarified anything crucial for its implementation. How do they propose to identify this status, party membership, each candidate or candidate? From information from the agency or from examination to a special committee? Maniadakis died, Senator McCarthy too. Their modern addicts, however well they feel, may show restraint. This government will be left for a long time, so that the law we are voting on today is implemented and yields fruit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u118	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, my colleague. Mr. Adonis Georgiadis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u120	Mr President, the Minister also wants to place himself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u121	Madam Minister, I didn't see you. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, I would like to refer to the parliamentary amendment under a general number 776. This amendment is not accepted for this reason: while the request is deemed to be correct, it will come - I have consulted the Ministry of Rural Development - with a regulation which will be final and which will resolve the issue to which the amendment refers. The amendment is therefore not accepted today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u123	Madam Minister, what is the number of the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u124	It is the amendment with a general number 776.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u125	Is she a parliamentarian?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u126	It is an amendment signed by Mrs Theleritis and Mr Arachovitis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u127	Thank you. Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u128	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, before I say about the bill, I just want to make one comment about what has been happening in Greece over the last few days. Minister, I imagine you realize that, if we were to rule and have events like the deaths of immigrants in Moria or the poor child who almost burned alive in Larissa, we would now have a SYRIZA that would be bound for the Germans, the commemorative, who are responsible for human tragedies! It was, you know, the time, ladies and gentlemen, when we lived in Parliament in the suicide record. Five thousand one, seven thousand the other, ten thousand the third. On the deaths of innocent people, you made the account to take authority. Of course, after you took power, in a magical way, suicides disappeared from your daily vocabulary, as if people stopped committing suicide after January 25, 2015. I only mention it for one reason. Because I believe that your presence in power can only have a good one for the place: mature as a society and understand where populism leads. It leads to people like you. You have not even asked for an apology for all that you have done in recent years, dividing the Greeks, making use of human tragedies for political reasons and selling this, in fact, as an ideology, the Left's ideology. I'll link it up a little bit with this bill. I have heard you say that this bill is a great reform. Minister, since we are talking about reforms and we are talking about the need to carry out real reforms - and I was listening to Mrs Fotou today saying that you successfully closed the second assessment, she may know something that the rest of the Greek people do not know, she may indeed know something - if you really think this bill you have brought is a real reform, we have a very big problem. A hole in the water is, I'd say, a new collective rushphetti, in the broad concept. Of course, it would be very important to introduce mobility into the Greek public. Of course. Why? Because the state, with appropriate training, could carry officials from where it has many, where it has few and thus save costs, can reduce taxes, reduce public spending, make better use of its staff. This type of mobility would be extremely useful. Is that what you bring this type of mobility, Minister, which you are advertising as a great reform? Of course not. First and foremost, because this is voluntary mobility. So, in fact, all you do, adding the three-member committee that will judge which of the applicants will be able to move or not, is Rusphetti. That's all. You don't do anything else. Legislate while the draft law could say: 'Russefetti: How is it done'. You're making the three-member committee. The three-member committee judges which of the applicants can move to the position they want and, most importantly, you are losing another huge opportunity. Article 16, which deals with the electronic organogram, is a great opportunity to get it right. Indeed, the Greek public needs an electronic organogram. Today I have also read a relevant article from my specialists in the press, which explains and technically how it can be done properly, so that the Minister can have the full picture of both the agencies and the executives and so that he can automatically see where there are positions and what people he could move. That would be great if you did. Unfortunately, that's not what you're doing either. You are making a supposed electronic organogram, just for the current mobility, just so you can make it easier to implement the ruffet to which I was referring earlier. Of course, it's interesting and something else. Article 4 provides for the entry into force of this draft law, after completion of the assessment of the structures and after completion of the establishment plans. Yes, sir. Can you tell us a timeframe in which this will have been done? When will this have happened? Tell us, to understand the bill, for which we lose so much time from our lives, when it will apply exactly. You said SYRIZA colleagues that it is a great reform. Can you tell us a time point and after that assessments will have been completed during your government, so that we know and when your law will be implemented, this important reform? I would very much like you to say a specific date, if you can, so that we as opposition can check you if you did get the goal you have set. So far, as you know, you have not caught any of your objectives at all on any subject, mainly because you were delusional. That's why. You weren't lying, ladies and gentlemen. You were delusional. Here, my colleague in front, Mr. Lappas, once charged me to the Committee of Inquiry of Parliament with the proposal I had made as New Democracy's candidate for the accession of New Democracy to the Kaceli Act and the partial deletion of New Democracy's debts. But Mr. Lappas did not know that SYRIZA's debt had been cancelled! You didn't know that 400 million had become 230 million! You were delusional, Mr. Lappa! You didn't know that what you accused me of suggesting...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u129	We answered you yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u130	SYRIZA had done it as an act. Of course we learned something else the other day, Minister. You were finally not a "I'm not paying", you were a "I'm not pleading", because you forgot to declare your real estate in the taxi. When I heard yesterday, I remembered this phrase which is often played and the radio of SKAI by Mrs Fotio - it is a very successful phrase - 'We're pathetics'. Yesterday the answer was given. You're also a little crooks, because someone who doesn't declare his E9 property, you don't even call him honest. There's something wrong with him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u131	Okay, okay, we'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u132	Don't interrupt me, Mr. Lappa. I say again, you have accused me, and in my absence - which is unacceptable for my colleague - but I forgive you for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u133	I didn't blame you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u134	You accused me in my absence, while your party erased 230 million debts, and your party received a loan from the National Bank with a guarantee of real estate, which your party had not declared to the tax office.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u135	You think so? You should go to the D.A.!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u136	So you've made a series of illegality, not one! Everything you blamed your opponents, you've done everything because you're hypocrites! But thankfully - to close - your Greek people understood and your hours in the government are obviously counted, as we understood from the previous speech by the Prime Minister. Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Saridis, Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u138	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u139	Mr President, the Minister wants the floor. Don't deprive her!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u140	Is the intervention by Mr Georgiadis?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u141	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u142	No, he doesn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u143	I'm a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u144	So what? Mr. Georgiadis made a political criticism based on his own data. We don't answer every time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u145	No criticism! He was serious about lying, Mr President! What data?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u146	It's absolutely data!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u147	But do not deny them the floor, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u148	Please, Mr. Georgiades! It cannot be the political criticism that is being made every time to answer it, whether we like it or not. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u149	It is facts, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u150	Madam President, your colleague, Mrs Stuboulis, referred to the New Democracy, spoke of Maniadakis and so on. Did they have to answer? Is this the job we're doing now? Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u151	That's all! Here they say we owe 250 million euros!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u152	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u153	I will speak for just a minute, Mr President. Mr Georgiadis, firstly, neither are we nor will we be. You have been behind you for forty years in the country, not you personally, political areas, we are all represented here, with the responsibilities they represent. You're not from virginity. You have raised what is called publicity today, with all the bad conditions that you are describing today, as if you did not remember them. I repeat, I'm not talking about you personally. At the same time, PASOK and New Democracy are responsible for the state of the country today. We also forget that. You come here all of a sudden as critics, as if SYRIZA had been ruling for forty years. You are not entitled to that. We are fighting today to get the country and the Greek people out of the deadlocks that you brought them into. That's what we're doing, and that's what we're gonna do. As much as you want to return quickly to the chairs of power - we understand that you are used to them, you cannot really do without them - I can tell you that this government is the one that will get the country out of the deadlock in 2019, there will be elections again and then we will see what the Greek people will say. However, today we have a national duty and will do so with all sacrifice and self-determination in order to save the country and save the Greek people - I repeat - from where you brought it. Also, crooks, Mr. Georgiadis...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u155	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u156	Mr. Javarra, you know, I love this controversy. It's very interesting. But it doesn't like the process. The procedure is specified.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u157	Mr President, I respect that, but when some things are said...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u158	Yesterday you weren't here, all the answer to SYRIZA's property was said and unfortunately...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u159	Madam Secretary, I'm going to interrupt you. There can be no dialogue now on the property of Kumundur. Are we discussing mobility issues and will we ultimately discuss the tax of Koumoundourou?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u160	All right, I'm hanging up. A fraud is called the one who consciously got loans that he cannot repay, pays, answers and has no possibility of repaying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u161	He doesn't even regulate them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u162	He doesn't even regulate them. He's called a crook.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u163	Mr President, I have the floor now because, at least on what is a fraud, I cannot tolerate it anymore. I want the floor. Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u164	But, Mr. Javarra, the procedure does not provide...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u165	Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u166	It is absolutely certain that after you Mr Lappas will ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u167	What should we do? I'm so sorry! Does the Rules of Procedure say that we must hear the Minister say things that are in breach of even the elementary aspects of logic? So, fraud - you will allow me to say - he is the one who promises things to the Greek people, plunders his vote and shows up for two years to do that he does not understand what he had done to the Greek people. Excuse me very much, that's to stop!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u168	Thank you very much. Mr. Saridis, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u169	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the House is trying to legislate and the government is doing how it governs. In the fourteen months that have passed, over a hundred ten bills have come to the Greek Parliament. Tens of them have come in the form of emergency, dozens of them in the form of emergency. Will anyone ask: But well, in this country the laws were missing? Is that the cause of the debt? Ladies and gentlemen, the laws were not missing. And where the legislator had overlooked it, there was time to add it and that was what he did. And that's how we moved on. The political will was lacking and lacking. Responsibility was lacking and lacking. Consensus is missing. Cooperation is missing. Dialogue is missing. Consent is missing. The will to mess with interests is lacking. The vision of a new Greece, free of the weights that led it here, is missing. Beautiful words, nice words were never missing from here. There is a weakness in the setting up of a plan, but also inability to manage and implement where it existed, in the field where the battle was given, where the unforeseen conditions made the plan a rampant, where the ability to create another one had to inspire, to achieve what it was responsible for, to achieve what the Greek people had chosen for, had chosen him, had led him here in this Chamber. I'm a member of the Loan Committee of Inquiry. I would like to say two words about this because I believe that our duty as parliamentarians is to do everything possible to achieve a common conclusion. Without a joint finding, the meaning of this committee is lost. The committee owes the Greeks a clear answer to the very simple question: is there a conflict in our country? If the answer to this question is not unanimous, then the next question will never be asked, 'What are we doing with the complexity?' We will not be able to answer the question of what the political system can do in the fight against interlocutory. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law in question, with its two very ambitious objectives, is, firstly, to satisfy the need for immediate reorganisation of the state, which we all know as urgent, and, secondly, to be an effective tool for the reform of public administration, has been characterised from the very beginning as inappropriate and is exposed to the assessment that it is also a false copy. No one realises that the forecasts for the voluntary nature of the transfers, for the publicity of the vacant posts, for the creation of the digital establishment plan and, of course, for the electronic circulation of documents are very important. I am sorry, however, because, in addition to the assurance of the new Minister, Mrs Gerovas, the government is determined to achieve this aim in the study of the proposed provisions, I have unfortunately not been able to find anything to share its certainty and enthusiasm. On the contrary, the reasons for voting against this legislative initiative by the Government are overwhelming and summarized as follows: Since the application of the proposed provisions depends on organograms and branching, which do not exist, the bill is an empty letter. It is easy to understand that something is not done in the right order once again in this place. We have no measurable data to legislate with realism and we cannot rely on standards, because they simply do not exist. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, we must begin and complete the assessment of public structures and draw up the establishment plans and branches so that we can then move towards effective administrative reform and a functional realisation of public services. The civil servants' register has not worked as planned by the relevant law since 30 September and will not work more quickly and without this we will allegedly try to deal with the phenomenon of the rotating port, that is, the transfer of officials from the private sector to the private sector and vice versa, in order to ensure that the administration is controlled by an elite of the globalised market. There is no realistic basis for this effort and it will not be as long as the register of government officials is not working. The phenomenon of rotating doors is a result of the globalised market, which we understand is a very serious institutional problem that all modern Western democracies have to face. We, too, are concerned by what is going on in relation to the staffing of the important refreshing European institutions. In Greece, the special conditions prevailing for decades in the process of government staffing prevented the development of the phenomenon and did not take a large measure of proportion. It is quite simply that rousphetti prevailed whenever private sector officials were employed, only for reasons of impression and micro-party controversy. It is true that public doors were and remain closed with this bill to private sector officials, regardless of any identifiable skills and their expertise, which we will continue to ignore as a state. There is no incentive to this bill for a successful private person to offer his know-how and his training to the Greek State. On the contrary, we offer every reason to all individuals to continue to be peculiar. The bill has been put in detail by the respectful colleague and speaker of the Association of Centres, Mr Karras, when considering the bill and the committees, and has presented our legitimate views and concerns about the future of this law. As regards the amendments, we will not be tired of pointing out that, because they do not follow the rules of good law, they create a malfunction in Parliament's work. I'm pointing this out. In Amendment No 764, on the redefinition of the required qualifications of the Heads of the Organisational Units of the Directorate-General for Coordination, we are voting 'yes'. With regard to Amendment No 765, on the redefinition of the powers of the Office for the Coordination of Institutional Affairs of the Organisation of the General Secretariat of the Government, we shall vote 'no'. The amendment of a general number 767 - which has not been withdrawn - which concerns the question of the possibility of transferring to the staff of the Hellenic Defence Systems, the Hellenic Vehicle Industry and the Hepi metallurgical Industry, I am concerned if I combine it with the statement by the Minister of National Defence that ELVO is the flagship of our defence policy. That sounded in Thessaloniki yesterday. However, this is a necessary decision, which we will certainly base on the logic of defending the interests of the workers. It has already been said several times yesterday in the Committee on National Defence on our defence strategy. It's time for actions. There is an appropriate scope for criticism, but it is an act of responsibility to choose where and when as a Member I should be criticising it so that it is constructive and not for reasons of impression to the detriment of my country's national interests. We need an increased sense of responsibility in the fields of national defence, foreign policy and refugee management, and all these three areas concern the national security of our country. I will close my position because today Mrs. Fotou made a statement that the evaluation is being closed. Every public debt is characterised as sustainable not by its absolute size, but by the GDP of the economy to which it has been loaded. Whether the Greek debt is sustainable comes from what the design will be and what the Greek economy will be after twenty years and not after twenty days. Anything which, even small, is being done in the direction of reducing public debt, will be welcome. Anything, even great, is being done towards reducing public debt not enough to get us out of the market and get us out of the crisis and bring growth. Because without growth reforms, he won't come. We're not getting out on the market. We're not getting out of the crisis. And this bill clearly does not bring the reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have an announcement to make. A letter has been sent to the Bureau, which reads as follows: "To the President of the Greek Parliament. Mr President, I would like to inform you that I am now an independent Member of Parliament who is absent from the Group of the European Central Bank, and I would ask that there be a communication to this effect in plenary. With honor, Georgios - Dimitrios Karras, Member of the 2nd District of Athens."
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u171	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-three students and students and four educational attendances from the High School and the Lyceum of Metropolis Carditsas. Nowadays, Karditsa has her honorary honor. Just before we welcomed Carditsa's Cup. We welcome you and thank you for coming to the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, it will now take the floor for the Minister, Mr Janakopoulos, to present an amendment. Minister, you have the floor for five minutes. Then it's you, Mr. Sevastaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u172	Mr President, I will speak for thirty seconds very soon. Ladies and gentlemen, we propose to amend the provisions of Article 5b of Presidential Decree 32/2004 "Recommendation and Organisation of the General Secretariat of the Government" and the redefinition of the powers of the Coordination and Institutional Affairs Office. This amendment redefined the responsibilities of the United Nations Agency for the Coordination of Institutional, International and European Affairs of the General Secretariat of the Government in order to coordinate and monitor the implementation of the 2030 Development Agenda of the United Nations and its related seventeen sustainable development objectives. The Agenda 2030 promotes the integration of all three dimensions of sustainable development in all sectoral policies, while promoting consistency between policy and legislative objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Sevastakis of SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u174	It is known that the Greek state was constructed by ordering the political selfishness and the ruse. Appointments were made, and even, depending on the imprisonment of the minister concerned, they were more and had to devise a service roof in order to obtain usefulness for those executives who, for too many decades, had to send and constitute the public body. A public unprotected, which has been targeted for too many years, for many decades, for the reproduction of itself. It is a fact that there is a great effort to redesign this public machine, to be designed in a reference to the customer of the service, not in a reference to himself. Under these conditions, and in this context, we should also put this bill, which is trying to monitor the changing production needs - not all services have the same intensity all year round - and also, on a voluntary basis, because all previous regulations of a compulsory nature have failed, constantly planning services, staffing, at the same time supporting families. One very big problem is that co-service, for example, is a difficult task, as well as moleculosis, support in terms of locality. Very often, officials whose wages are not sufficient to support their integration are forced not to join the service and the place. So voluntary mobility seems to be an act of soundness and rationality. The public no longer has the possibility of large influxes and large amounts of aid. It is thus the fiscal situation of the country, so it is the hierarchy of the needs crisis and under the influence of this unfavourable treaty that the public cannot gain the strength it had. By arresting mobility - self-evidently for an elementary - I think an answer is given. It is surely possible to find the individual auctions and it is certain that it will be able to find the balances. I think, therefore, that it is a positive political decision by the government, a positive legislative initiative, which has also suffered a long-standing treatment. With regard to the issues of crisis and rupture, which have been raised earlier by the distinguishing spokesman for the New Democracy political line at the parliamentary level, Mr Georgiadis, that it is a bill that, because it has volunteering, that is to say, the will to assign it to the public official and, on the other hand, has a three-member committee that will make the crisis, the approval and can substantiate what is necessary or not, this is the pretext of the rupture rather than the whole structure, the whole architecture of the public is a ruptured centre. Because, as I said at the beginning of my position, the public was built at the request of the political public, not at the request of the productive need. I think, therefore, that such a dismissal despairs both the political debate and the political opposition. I would like specific suggestions, specific weaknesses, specific faults identified. That is what I can understand as a political contribution. I would like to say that some of the irrationalism with which the public administration was built and the citizens were troubled, the officials themselves, created the need for over-legislation. Precisely because it was a mistake to the public, there was a need to make permanent arrangements in legislation, small, very often photographic, and that explains the absolute administrative chaos that leads the citizen to self-evident, bypass. The citizen, wanting to get away from this demonic system of pluralism that leads to lawlessness, chooses the accelerator. These terms are a big bet the government will have to face. I think that the political system will have dealt with this over time, that is, how it will make public engineering, how it will make the architecture of public service more operational, more straightforward design and hence more popular and closer to popular interests. Don't identify the state with the public space. We must identify the public space with the highest popular interest. So I think that the redesign proposed by the bill gives us the tools in this direction of resolution. Political careers cannot continue to be set up in the way they set up for nearly many decades. Also, new political careers cannot continue to produce the debts of the political system, the parties that have produced the previous years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Maria Triantafel from SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, Ministers, SYRIZA's residence in the country's governance fills Parliament's stress - they go and the MPs come to different parties - regions, regional councils, municipalities. It fills stress and at the same time expectation, anxiety and plagiarity, at the same time that we must not surrender to the plagiarism. However, I would like to say that in these undeniably very difficult circumstances, ideas are being created, some really new and dynamic and others are being made more or less disorientative. We must therefore eternally formulate and form control criteria. Tacitus was saying that the more laws he has a state, the more corrupt he is. Today there have been many remarks, some common remarks, and I would say, in relation to the public. It has problems with its functioning, efficiency, rationalisation, technological upgrading. Every citizen who comes in for a matter in the public has the feeling that he experiences Kafka's "trial". But what is the main problem of public and public administration over time? It is his control and manipulation by the political elites, with the bureaucracy, the toolbox of bureaucracy, because the largest collective employer was able to play these elites through the public. The findings are good. We said that in several of them we might agree. What is the political conclusion? Following the findings, a political conclusion must come to light. What's the target? There was a target and there are some elite policies: the depopulation of the social character of state operation and the transfer of resources to the private sphere. So there was and is still a well-organised and unprecedented effort, with many doses of propaganda and a smuggling of the role, effectiveness and ultimately the very utility of the public sector. But a real question is how the public sector, the public administration, can modernise. This can be done by evaluation. That's right. Not with an evaluation that will have a default failure. I think Mr. Voridis said clashes yesterday. It's very important to see what he said. He said that the biggest reforms are done with conflicts of interest. That's right. What interests and how do interests arise? What was created in public? A PASOK-type trade union was created, on the one hand, over the years. What does that mean? It means carcendaurus, a state-owned syndicate. On the other hand, the type of New Democracy promotes something else: scared, dehydrated, obedient public officials. And the Left took part, to some extent, in these games, and the in-parliamentary and extra-parliamentary, in any way it could. None of this, however, is consistent with the people's interests and with the interests of the workers. Nothing promotes the people's interests and interests of workers. Is the change of consciousness achieved by authoritarianity? In my view, it is achieved through major events. But there is criticism that we always have to listen and be careful. For example, in relation to the organograms. Indeed, they need specific organograms, and there is also a need to renew them. There is a lot of talk about the timetable. We heard it before and from Mr. Adonnis Georgiadis. They give and take the schedules, how the timeline here, etc. Really, did the 40 years of postmulsion not have any timetable? The criticism was about two issues, as has been said. One is in relation to the establishment plans and the other in relation to the committee and its staff. Indeed, the proposals for which I think they will be welcome. However, I would like to refer to what has been heard recently and in recent days. You know, ladies and gentlemen, the lines do not create a conscience. And I think that we are not taught and, above all, you are not taught enough of what is happening in the world. Rise and shine! If you think the next Prime Minister will be a well-bred star playing with his buckets, you deceive yourself of mistakes. You see what's going on in the world. Peoples vote, not polls! We sleep with another result and another result comes! I think we should read these results carefully. You remind me of the teacher, as Bertolt Brecht says, who does a lot of seldom projects. The longing to reach the final, usually makes him do nothing. I do not think we should be doing micropolicy in relation to the political speech. We must make a policy with capital, real, multi-dimensional. Politics without theory is not politics. No civilization policy is political. I think today that the role of SYRIZA is to fight to resolve the country's fundamental democratic and independent problems. And I think the conflict with the system of interlocutory will take the dimensions of revolution. It will not succeed unless it has a wider social and cultural dimension. So I think we have a long way to go. I think, above all, that we should stop the dissolution of the social fabric and above all I think that the country wants unity, support for each other with patience, patience, culture, understanding and action for overturning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, my colleague. The Minister has the floor, Mr Christoforos Vernardakis, because he wants to table two amendments. Minister, I think you're seven minutes away.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u178	Seven minutes for two amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u179	They're amendments. They're not suggestions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u180	I shall make my speech, Mr President. I will develop both amendments and my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u181	Here, Minister, you have ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u182	The first amendment, which I would like to support, is number 772/11, which refers mainly to the Directorate-General for Coordination. Where it is not possible to transfer appropriations from bodies of the general government to officials, the payment of all the allowances and allowances of their organic posts shall be borne by the institution from whom they have been seconded, other than those linked to the performance of their duties in the area and to the post justifying their payment. So the rest is paid by the Directorate-General for Coordination and its budget. This is because there is often a different exercise of work. You know, this General Secretariat is a final office, which has borne a great deal of weight on the subject of negotiations with the institutions. The second amendment is number 764/5, which simulates the formal qualifications required to fulfil the position of Head of Administration with the qualifications of the Heads of the other Organisational Units of the Directorate-General for Coordination. This is for reasons of equality of the individual sections in the procedures of the Directorate-General for Coordination. It is the Directorate-General that deals with administrative and financial matters in the current secretariat, the other units concerned are units which have an allocation based on the structure of the Ministries and the agenda at government policy level. And now, after this process, I have to go to the speech about the bill. The bill is a part of the government's wider administrative reform. We had Mr.4369 "Standard of staff, selection procedures for Heads of State and Government, evaluation". We have the Mobility bill now, voluntary mobility, as must be done in all living organisations, where workers' choices must be linked to the needs of services, but this is a basic principle. What mobility systems have we had so far? We had the classic systems for the mobility of secondments and transfers, which are signed or signed by the three or four ministers, huge bureaucracy, client state, because the whole process is being used, an unknown number of posted in administration today, distractions that last for ten years and seven years, while keeping the organic positions in the old organisation, irrationalism in administration. And we had the systems of the famous memory of Mitsotakis, during which mobility was identified with available and redundancies. That was the policy of mobility that we have lived in recent years. Our mobility had a very serious feature and I remind you: it was for the first time that a bill, a government policy, was put into electronic consultation before the Ministry even gave its own principles, its own policy axes. It was a first experimental implementation with great success and, of course, with many issues that have emerged, but we must keep it. Mobility is also a supplementary action initiative currently taking place throughout the public sector. I remind you, why we're forgetting them. The Commission, which, in one or two months' time, will have proposed changing the entire branch of the Greek government, a thousand four hundred forty-four branches. 70% of employees belong to branches with one to ten employees. It is the definition of irrationalism, the definition of the customer state, in which the famous Greek public administration was structured. Organograms. The work of the ministries has gone very far. Of course, we will probably need one or two months from 31 December, because we also have new organisations, organisations that are politically clear about strengthening public policies and structures of public administration that produce public policies and do not make out sourcing and do not make obvious and obscure privatizations and collect administrative matter, with democracy, transparency and merit. Of course, it is an organisational chart, so that every citizen knows how many organic jobs, where and with what contours of work there are throughout the public sector throughout the length and width of the public sector. These are fundamental issues of modernisation that should have been done for many years. What do you say, Mr. Javarra? Doesn't that mean anything about digital organogram?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u183	I'll answer you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u184	Answer me. But please don't talk too much. Listen a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u185	You won't tell me if I have to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u186	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u187	And right now, I'm sorry, but you must withdraw. Only the President can give me a hint.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u188	Mr. Javarra, you're right about that, but it's not the first time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u189	You must finally be a democrat. At last there must be democracy. You have no right to insult MPs. You are a guest government in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u190	Mr. Javarra!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u191	Here, Minister, do you exercise the people's...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u192	Mr Javarra, please respect the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u193	I'm offended, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u194	I know. I said you're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u195	He offended me, dinosaur! And that is based on the ignorance it has as Minister for the parliamentary procedure and the work that is being done in this Chamber!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u196	Mr. Javarra...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u197	Please withdraw.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u198	You're welcome, Mr. Javarra. Let me call out who he is. You are right about this point, but it is not the first time that things are happening.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u199	Sometime he'll get into a class.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u200	But, with a good heart, these are solved. It's not right now to start a conversation. Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u201	It is therefore digital, the organogram, which will show us all the organic positions with the work schedules, and that is exactly how the mobility system will be organised. Recognise the service in the private sector outside the public sector for the whole of the public sector. Many initiatives, twin initiatives and others are coming. Law on Independent Authorities, Legislation of Open Governance Rules and so on. Also, in the same bill is the obligation of the administration to electronic document handling, a huge step in transparency. And that should have been done for many years. Not only transparency, but also saving resources. The famous "spear public" from which the New Democracy says it will save a lot of money, did not make it the elementary, saving about 500 million a year from electronic document handling. I leave the issues of democracy, transparency, delivery and reception of ministries and so on. I heard that we returned to Law4369 and whether the register of executives exists - it does not exist - it does not work. New Democracy's concern about the functioning of the registry is late, but it did not vote when it was a government's legislative initiative. Where's the register today? The cases of a thousand three hundred and seventy civil servants with high formal qualifications are being processed. Eight hundred six requests for registration have been submitted. If you enter the AAPI site, which hosts the registry, there are already seven hundred registered ten. In total, we have two thousand public officials of high formal qualifications who will form the tank when we can, by the end of the year, begin to have such a sufficient number of people, so that we can choose to do so on the basis of criteria of dignity and transparency. That's the reality. Why was he delayed? Because he was really late. Do not open up this debate, because this debate refers to public procurement, to notices and receipts of information systems which were not working, which were pre-timed, which had huge operating problems. And these were called upon by the government to manage them with respect to the independent authorities of the AACC and their independent functioning. And without exploring anyone, trying to support the work of the AACC and, of course, the work of the register's legislative initiative, which has the great consent of the public sector world. Another criticism that has been made: mobilisation, he says, of mobility. Mobility is something simple and technical. Let us imagine a simple and easy process. One body, for example the Igoumenitsa Health Center, asks for an ambulance driver, because he has a vacant organic position on the ambulance driver. This position is taken out in the internal mobility system that exists in the public sector and calls on those who want to go to work in Igoumenitsa and have this expertise to submit their applications. What molecules? There is no more transparent procedure. And who decides? The structure itself. The Director and the Director of the Health Center. On what criterion? And he can invite them to an interview and justify one option or another. What molecule systems? Where it was really a matter of moleculation, "you've turned around with the engagement." Where it was placed, in the mobilisation of public sector staff, where the issue of the Directors-General was raised, not only did you agree to vote on Law4369, but you are also being chased by the practice of appointing all the directors currently present in the public sector. Conflict of interest: the big problem. What is conflict of interest first? I hope that, in Greek legislation, we will find little or nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u202	Almost nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u203	Nothing. Some loose wordings in the regulations governing the operation of certain independent authorities, and this with too, too flexible, I am passing through. What is this phenomenon? It refers to the closed circle of political persons, who, after working in the neural sectors of the public sector, controlling, regulating, legislating in specific sectors of the market, switch to the private sector and to the companies that previously regulated as Ministers. But also vice versa. From high private sector positions to public and similar positions. The case of Bob Rubin in America, Tim Gidner. Large bankers, who were in positions of finance ministers. That's a huge problem. Barozo case, Schrader case and Joscar Fisher case in Germany. Too many cases. In Greece, too, we have cases. Let's not mention them personally. So what's going on? A matter has been raised. It was basically put on the table by the President of the United States after 2010, because this complication began to cause a great deal of trouble in this huge society, in this huge United States market - imagine! - how much more in small markets and small society, such as Europeans, such as Greece or France, that is, sizes which are not comparable to the United States. In those countries that tried to deal with the phenomenon, the arrangements focused on the application of time periods of distance, whether before or after. Yesterday we had the statement by Jean-Claude Juncker, who in his letter to the President of the European Parliament, Martin Schultz, has proposed extending the waiting period from the eighteen months, which is today, in two years for the former Commissioners and three years for the President of the Commission. Because a huge political, economic and moral issue has been raised in this complex of rotating doors. The Greek Government therefore comes, for the first time, to legislate on this process, of course, while respecting the size of the market, the size of the Greek society. There are two ways: the waiting period before and the waiting period after. During the waiting period, we are quite flexible, under the law. We must state as long as we take up positions. In the period after that, we are, of course, harder because it concerns legislative acts that have been taken, either from the private sector or from the public sector, because the public is not acquitted against the private sector in this case - and we define as waiting times for the two years. In other words, you cannot work on similar items that you have regulated earlier than two years, when European legislation is currently following the three-year policy. The French have been legislated for three years, five America and other countries with special legislation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u204	This concerns the President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u205	We are not talking about the President of the Commission. The President of the Commission shall be extended. Yunker proposes to extend this process. We therefore have a set of legislative interventions. Obviously, someone will say, in one year's time, there has been a huge administrative and legislative change. Public administration is changing in terms of structures, changing in terms of attitudes, slowly, of course, because it is a "dinosaurus" that wants procedures, which it wants to learn to operate in procedures, with transparency, at speed. For example, you are aware that one of the other provisions of this bill relates to the speeding up of recruitment procedures, appointment. In other words, we have the phenomenon since an intake into an organisation, the way it is done, with ASEAN, etc., to spend eight, nine, ten months and the person concerned or the person concerned has not even undertaken his work. A huge problem of bureaucracy, where administration must begin to respect transparency and ethical rules. We are in a serious change in the whole institutional framework. Obviously the next period will have to run too much, too much, too much. Yes, indeed, we must not let each scholar block the electronic handling of documents in the public eye. We should not close our eyes to the fact that there should be no digital organogram, because - and I do - these are secondary things. If there is no digital organisational chart that supports all policy on the transparency of secondments and transfers, we will never have a serious, meritable and rational human resources management system within the public sector. I conclude by saying and recalling that mobility is one of the tools that the public has to solve the issue of subscribing. It's not "the" tool. We must obviously go to another logic of greater budgetary freedom. But what will this whole process help us? To really record the needs, not in general, not in figures, but in qualitative data. We need to know, in other words, specialties, degrees of expertise. What's all this public today? They're six hundred thousand people. But what exactly is it? Where is it and what do they need? Because what it took a year ago might not be necessary today. So you have a rational practice, simple, transparent always, because we are talking about public and public interest, to be able to manage this human potential.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u206	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u207	That's simple, elementary. Everyone should have supported it, because it is common sense, it is self-evident. It does not conceal any feasibility. The only feasibility is voluntary, that is to say the choice of the workers themselves for the position they will be working and where they will work, since there are also needs and that should be supported. Unfortunately, they still embroider concepts of barren opposition but without any practical content. And that is the pleasant thing for us and the unpleasant thing for the New Democracy. They are serious about the criticisms they make in the bill. Unfortunately, it is not often understood how certain things can go ahead and get better for the Greek people with simple moves and simple ideas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u208	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u209	Unfortunately, we had the client state and the complexion. That's what someone's trying to defend and trying to find my ways - to justify it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u210	Thank you very much. Mr. Javarra, you have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u211	After Mr. Javarra, I'll speak on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u212	Mr. Javarra, you have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u213	That suggestion was this...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u214	It doesn't matter. He needs restraint. There's a word more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u215	Will you forbid us to ask why?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u216	I'll explain...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u217	Let's just drop something down, Mr. Javarra!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u218	... what you must respect when you enter Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u219	Don't move my finger.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u220	Minister, we're not having a conversation here. There are three more colleagues to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u221	And especially you. I don't know who you are!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u222	Why do I know who you are?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u223	Ladies and gentlemen, please help the Bureau. Mr. Javarra, please! Minister, what are you asking now, a fuss?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u224	I asked for the floor after Mr Javarra's speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u225	I'm so sorry. There is a Bureau that runs the debate. There are three more colleagues to speak. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u226	Mr President, just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u227	Tell me what you want, Minister. Don't take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u228	I want to talk to staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u229	Where did the staff come from?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u230	Since Mr Javarra's position, I have had a political speech in this House. He's interrupting me and talking out of procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u231	Minister, do you want to speak without getting permission? I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u232	No, I'm asking you for permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u233	Please. You would come down from Stepma without asking for the floor on staff. You have decided to ask for the floor on staff because you have now been disturbed by Mr Javarra's second speech. I appeal to you, too, because we are discussing a bill and there are three of your colleagues below who want to speak. Let's stay in our seats a little. Let us put this issue aside a little now. You're very welcome. Honestly, I invoke the courtesy we all have. Mrs Lebanese has the floor. Here you go, Mrs. Lebanese, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Mr President. Madam and Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today is the World Day against Violence against Women. For the violence that's happening in here, I'm not gonna talk. Today, but also every other day, we must have in mind the violence that continues to exist in millions of women throughout the world on the grounds of sex. The phenomena of violence against women exist throughout the world, elsewhere more intense and more distinctive, elsewhere more mild or more subtle. Violence is not only the physical violence one can exercise. There are many forms of abuse taking place every day in Greek society, both inside and outside the family, in the workplace, in almost every expression of social reality. A great deal has been done in our country to raise public awareness, inform women and manipulate many forms of abuse. There are structures of support and solidarity for women - victims of violence and for children, which often directly experience the various forms of abuse. The Greek state has stood up to try to curb and eliminate these phenomena. The problem, however, continues and, unfortunately, has intensified in recent years as a natural consequence of the economic crisis, the escalation of unemployment and the many pathological situations in Greece. Unfortunately, the extensive restriction of available resources, both in the public and in the private sectors, nourishes anti-social behaviour, forms new forms of pressure and violence, creates a more violent society, and this is a direct consequence of austerity and not a side-effect. The bill that we are discussing forms a new, uniform, fairer and objective system of public mobility. This effort, in addition to the self-evident positive effects that we hope will have on the entire Greek government, also creates conditions for some unacceptable people to be involved to date with demands that are faced by many families of civil servants. Rules are laid down to allow these families to work in the same city, not to need a man or a woman to move many kilometres daily to keep their job. This possibility, now provided to everyone through the single system, will improve living conditions in these families. It will improve the so-called microclimate within the family and eliminate a factor that can even cause violence. Because it is a form of violence to force a family to keep two focal points, to be at a distance between two parents when there are children, to take more family burdens than the other. At the same time, the necessary conditions for better use of the human resources of the Greek public are being created, a single organizational chart is being created, a full picture of everyone's needs, overnumbers and available employees. The provision of a mobility framework is based on voluntary rather than compulsory mobility. It also creates conditions for improving the effectiveness of human resources. An employee, who is forced to move from one service to another, may be unhappy, not to be interested in his new duties, not to be attracted to the new environment, not to give up his new position. On the contrary, a man who wishes to move, is almost certain that he will perform more, he will offer more, he will be more interested and more easily adapted to his new duties. I therefore believe that the new system, which is being shaped, can change many of the time-consuming problems faced by the Greek public and significantly improve the services provided to citizens by putting people in the service who wish to be in the position they are. Finally, I would like to refer to the amendment tabled by the Government concerning, among other things, the 'Electrical' Kymi. There is finally a solution to another problem inherited by the current government by the governments of the New Democracy and the PASOK, which, without any reservations and only in view of the limitation of the number of officials, decided to close state units blindly, without any provision whatsoever for people working in them. In particular, the case of "Electrical" Kymi, an industry directly linked to the Armed Forces, where they were mainly engaged in women, was a difficult crossword that the current government tried and, even late, resolves today by giving way to these families with the possibility of switching them to other public services, where necessary. From the start we tried to help these people. We were committed to finding a solution. We promised it, and it's happening today. Our insistence on implementing what we are committed to is a fundamental difference between the power systems that caused our economic catastrophe. We fight for people, to improve the lives of as many as we can and not the numbers that they see people as statistics and who choose with which numbers they will deal with. I must conclude by congratulating Mr Vitsa and all the political leadership of the Ministry of National Defence and also the appropriate ministries, who did not give up the effort, even when there was no way out, but worked successfully to find a solution when all the odds were against them. This obsession of the government to give solutions where it seems impossible, is our hope, is our future, is why the vast majority of the Greek people supports us and urges us to move forward, to rebuild, to rise together as a society of justice and optimism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, twenty students and two companions from the Russian Presidential Academy of National Economy and Public Administration. The House welcomes them. Dear friends, thank you for your presence.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u236	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u237	Wait a minute. I want to announce the evolution of the debate, I'd like to cover for you. There are two colleagues here who are still closing the list of speakers. From that point on, Mr Georgadas, Mr Papatheodorou, Mrs Manolakos and Mr Javaras have been asked to speak on secondary grounds. Do you want to, too, Mr. Lappa?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u238	For four minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u239	The rapporteurs don't talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u240	If you want to talk, talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u241	I want to, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u242	I say what we have discussed to conclude the debate and because they have, in their assessment of everything, been said most. But if you wish, obviously under the Rules of Procedure, you have the right to speak, alas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u243	Besides, we're before the time we counted, so a quarter is fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u244	All right, Mr. Lappas and Mrs. Theleritis will talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u245	Mr President, I would like to take the floor to talk about some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u246	This is before the Minister for Legislative Improvement. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u247	A legislative improvement in Article 24 at the end of paragraph 6 shall be added as follows: ‘or by another certified provider of recognised certificates’. This is done for the sake of harmonisation with Union law. An amendment, number 777, has also been tabled. However, I would like to say that it will be an incomplete article in the law, which will be formulated as follows: "A post is allowed, upon request, the secondment of a civil servant, a degree of service, a spouse or a cohabitant, within the meaning of Article 1 of Law4356/2015, who serves in a service or an external authority. The secondment shall be carried out at the service placed by the spouse or his/her partnership or other service in the same city or region, as long as the need for the service is served, by common decision of the relevant ministers, after the opinion of the Head of the relevant diplomatic or consular authority, where the secondment takes place. Persons seconded under these provisions shall receive only internal earnings from the institution of origin and shall not be entitled to a foreign service allowance.’; Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u248	You said a separate article, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u249	Separate article, yes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u250	Madam Minister, to be submitted to be distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u251	I am speaking in the Minutes of the above-mentioned legislative improvement concerning Article 24.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u252	Mrs Katsavria - Siropoulou has the floor on behalf of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the Members of the New Democracy, particularly Mr Javarra and Mr Voridis, and their positions strengthen the conviction that our choices are correct. It is true that as experienced parliamentarians and at the same time representatives of the old political system, they are philosophing for three fronts: first, on the forefront of the vindication of the overall failures they have conducted over the past few years. But are they, the supposed fans of the smaller state, not the ones who raised it? Aren't they the same ones who, instead of re-establishing it, get rid of it? Isn't that their inability to bring the lenders to rationalize? Secondly, on the front of the "broken" extremism by the analgesic image of the hasty and impatient Mr. Mitsotakis. Unfortunately for him, there are still very fresh memories in the field of public administration from the tough policy which he himself has implemented as the responsible Minister of Mr Samaras. The third front is that of the government's harassment, so that it cannot effectively exercise its policy. The executives, therefore, of the Officerial Response are engaged in a systematic distortion of the true meaning of words. Aifne, the honourable Member, has called us for the voluntary mobility of civil servants, who are being promoted by the government, saying that we have joined the harsh logic against the workers. And that is just because we use the word'mobility'. However, this reveals nothing but the fact that the New Democracy really means mobility, that is as a vengeance and a customer mechanism at the expense of workers. In addition, government practice, both the Officerial Representation and the once Socialist PASOK, bear witness to this over time. Ladies and gentlemen, public administration is a key pillar of economic and social development. At its core is the civil servant as the subject of his operation, as commanded to implement the State's choices, as a body and expression of rights and obligations in the wider organised field of society. The administration of public bodies, the management of staff, the exploitation and evaluation of staff, in this respect, and the mobility of officials, for whom we are legislating today, are, of course, political issues in the sense that responsibility for ensuring the effectiveness, objectivity, dignity and justice lies with the political forces who exercise power, which define the rules and the framework for the functioning of public services. In this direction, it is necessary to move political controversy, in other words, to highlight the prevailing preconditions that will turn the state into a growth factor and a social contributor. I will not deny that the role of the state over time is the subject of a strong political debate, a dispute between the parties and the interests they represent, for power. But it is time for this conflict to gain quality, seriousness and credibility. And first of all - we must recognise the role, value and dignity of the public worker, separate the status of the person employed by the public on the other hand, his self-evident status, that of the active citizen, and restore citizens' confidence in the role of public services and vice versa. Why can this division of workers in public and private? How convincing can the theory of social automation be? How long will the effort to transfer the inability of the old political class to the public service backs? And at the end of the day, will we once become a European country? Why do we not see that the average European size of the public sector represents 44% of the social economy? Should we go down to 33%, be really "Banana" to meet the terms of the first memorandum? We now have less than six hundred thousand civil servants. One way or another they've left over three hundred thousand. Ladies and gentlemen, it is neither the Greek people nor the publicity of the crisis. It is parasiticism, clichéism and the ideology of dependence on the local state and great foreign interests that are to blame. It is the political practice of the parties of the old political system, which has raised nursing attitudes and has willingly offered his services to all kinds of "trophics", often with uninjurious. The ideological cloak, which are occasionally clothed, is nothing but a fig sheet, a smokescreen, to cover their true intentions. For that reason, I behave in passing, let us not be shaken by some, like Mr. Vorides. We're not empowered. We're not buried by the privileges and the goodness of power. Others cannot live without them. Mr President, the legislative initiative of the Minister, Mrs Gerovas, which I too would like from the Step of the House to thank and congratulate her on taking up her new duties, contributes substantially to the effectiveness of the state mechanism. It is in line with the strategy of SYRIZA and the government to speed up the country's exit from the crisis, with the public administration and its workers taking their lead role. We are voting in favour of this bill and we call on the parties, who want to call themselves pro-European, to make a new start too, taking their own responsibilities and overcoming their old evil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, Mrs Katsavria - Siropoulou. Mr Davas has the floor from New Democracy, which is the last speaker on the list, and we will then begin the cycle of the seconds of the rapporteurs and the special speakers. Here, Mr. Davakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, Mr President. Members of the government in their speech are constantly, uninterruptedly, unstoppable from a personal point of view - to call it a more relaxed one - an empathy towards a historical party. And I say this with the knowledge and experience that we have recently reflected by a colleague who has previously come down to the Step. There are no 'we and you' in these cases, nor fingers can we move or create meaningless impressions. At the moment, in this Chamber, a bill has been introduced which is trying to create a new situation, a good prospect in public administration. The positives will be applauded. Negatives, as we have a duty, will be dealt with as a Qualified Opposition. Neither fingers have the Greek people voted to move you, who voted you to rule, nor to create fleeting impressions. I shall speak - and I am glad that Mr Vernardakis is in the Chamber - about the digital establishment plan. What the Minister said to the committee, namely that, today in the public sector, there are officials who do not know where they are, it is a reality, not today, but for all the political leaderships that went through the Ministry of Public Administration. There was an effort by the current Chief of New Democracy, an important, substantial effort, which was swept away, blamed and stopped moving forward. However, in any case, the basis and tool for the printing and management of public funds is the digital establishment plan referred to in Article 16. At the hearing of the bodies, the Open Technology Agency, the EKLAK, who gave you a draft amendment. It is an important text. I had the opportunity to read it, Madam and Minister. I'll give it to you downstairs of the Step and I'll beg you to see it again. It is an important contribution to the legislation that we are making. We are not against the digital organisational chart, because the digital organisational chart is not the vacancies and tasks to facilitate mobility, but it is a complete and concrete illustration of all public structures in order to help. I believe that the text, which has been put to you by the EKLAK in this direction, is intensified and will help you. I'd like you to see it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u256	I replied to the committee on this, Mr Davaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u257	Madam Secretary, let's clarify something. If you want to answer and Mr Davakis accepts to interrupt him, which is why the Bureau does not refuse, you should speak on the microphone, so that your position can be recorded and heard. Mr. Davakis, you obviously allow the interruption.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u258	Of course, and thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u259	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u260	We have received the text that has been tabled to the committee and I have answered the honourable Members there that it is very serious what they are tabling. But technically it is exactly what will happen next. We told them that we would see this soon after that, because we could not legislate in the general context and that we would further discuss - there might also be this viewpoint and another - and we would proceed to the technical processing of how that is to be done. We have taken this into account, that is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u261	Well, thank you, Minister. Mr. Davakis, please continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u262	I'm just saying to you - and that is why I expressed my pleasure at the fact that Mr. Vernardakis is here - that he has a specialty in technical matters. Mr Vernardakis could contribute to this kind of case, because we are legislating on it, namely on the digital establishment plan and because this text is important. I'm of the opinion - I don't know if you're either - that we're not even all aware of it. Society and specialised bodies know what we are legislating for. You will need to see it again and possibly in a future or in a more direct situation. The characteristics of the amendment I mentioned to you - I want this to be heard - are as follows: firstly, completeness. Article 16, on the other hand, is limited to those mentioned in the previous article of the bill, leaving a large proportion of the government outside the establishment plan. The amendment, however, includes all units and all employees. Second, history. Article 16 does not provide for history to be kept. That's what you need to see. Therefore, it does not support a documented assessment of changes in time. Thirdly, credibility. I say the principles - I repeat - which govern the amendment. Article 16 does not provide for a central repository. When information is repeated in many databases, data discrepancies arise, as updates are made separately. The amendment not only provides for a central repository, but ensures that the institutions' organograms are created as derivatives by the central organogram. Fourth, accessibility. Article 16 does not provide for free by reasoned restrictions for national security reasons access to the data of the digital establishment plan. This is inconsistent with the principles of transparency and with international trends and practices. Finally, compulsoryity. The amendment requires any change in structure or staffing to apply only if it has received a registration number in the establishment plan in accordance with the standard of ‘HUMANY’ or ‘ADAM’, contracts and payment orders. The example brought by the Minister of Health Center "X", I will tell Areopolis in my region, asking for an ambulance driver, is very important. However, I consider it to be strengthened and strengthened by this kind of view that the EULAF amendment gives you. Because there will be a transparent process and fullness and all that, which make up the characteristics of this proposal. These are the thoughts of a man specializing, Mr Rigopoulos, who gave me permission to mention his name and who gave me the information and has experience of public administration. And it would be good if these cases, which we refer to as Members in this Chamber, were to be called upon by the political leadership to contribute with their experience, knowledge and innovation and, in any case, their objectivity, with regard to the removal of various party bumpers, which may also be spoken by others. At the moment, our country is at a point where we must contribute towards the proper legalisation of the administration, which unfortunately has suffered everything. You are not a virginity product, you have participated in parties in the free Greek life of the last forty years, you have participated in political forces. The Greek people who forty years voted for the old parties to 80% voted for you with the one-digit percentages you know. But in any case, in the two years you're running your own story. As long as this story takes the vote of the Greek people, I hope it has features that may stay in the future. I am sorry, but so far with the intolerance which is reflected by many of my strong colleagues in the Step of the House, who are reminiscent of other times, I do not see this optimism confirmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u263	Thank you, Mr. Davaki. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-one students and students and three educational attendances from the General School of Amphisia. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs. Thalerite, SYRIZA rapporteur, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u264	Before I refer to today's bill, I too would like to say a few words on the occasion of the World Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. In fact, I am deeply aware that violence against women is a part of the very structure and functioning of our societies, as well as a means of social control of women, which is why historically it is a phenomenon that can withstand time, while it is constantly being reproduced through new forms and technologies. I want this 'white ribbon' campaign, which is taking an active part in the World Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, as well as in the 'white ribbon' campaign, to unite, as an ambassador, my voice with the voices of thousands and millions of women worldwide, in America, Mexico, India, Turkey, Palestine, Egypt, Poland, Ireland, Spain and Greece, saying in the most unequivocal way that we condemn and have zero tolerance on all forms of violence against women, wherever they come from. From this Stepma, therefore, of the Greek and Greek Parliaments, we join our voices with the feminist movement and claim our right to a life without violence, as a right to absolute and non-negotiable. I now come to the draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, once again we must reiterate that mobility is not enough, nor is it a panacea, to address the serious problems facing administration and self-government. We are well aware that recruitment is needed in order to fill gaps and to enable the public today to respond to modern needs. Dear colleague of the JRC, we have never talked about surplus personnel, but about these shortcomings caused by the policies of the previous governments, which led to four hundred thousands of workers coming out either through availability or through mergers, so that we already have these increased problems in management today, such as malfunctioning, severing, ineffectiveness, which day after day are exacerbated. And let us not talk about a breach of workers' working and social rights by abolishing many specialties that took place overnight. However, we cannot all agree that mobility can have an elementary rationalisation in upgrading the existing mechanism to public administration. And gaps also indicate shortcomings and weaknesses, especially in the way this Single Mobility System is implemented, and in particular in the way this system is made public. Ladies and gentlemen, I am truly amazed at the sincere position expressed by Mr Voridis - and not only, I would say - by which you have rightly stated that the New Democracy, when it comes to power, will abolish everything that is changing with this bill. With this statement, you really give the Greek people - and you may not have realised it - to learn your future intentions, because the years before the citizens know what happened, what mergers they have done, what effects they have brought, and what consequences your neoliberal policies have today for the public sector, and what the public sector is today. And really, since you will abolish it, why such concern and interest in democracy and transparency? Is it because these legislation restricts your own clientele relationships with which you have built this whole public sector today, in which all the transfers and secondments were specifically serving the survival of the political establishment? Those who have worked in the public sector will remember very well that political intervention is needed for the simplest bureaucratic process. This system you want to bring back? That rationalization you mean? For us and the citizens of this country to understand. With this bill, then, we are telling you that this Single Mobility System has the sole purpose of serving the public interest, equality and transparency. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Please give me two more minutes, Mr President. As for the compulsory nature, it is not surprising for us that your obsession, because as genuine expressions of this extreme neoliberal ideology it is reasonable and expected that you will be strong supporters of compulsoryity. And maybe someone could explain it and realize that if someone had an excess staff, he should also see the part of that compulsion. However, with such a large deficit and a subsidization in the public sector, is there, in the end, this need for compulsoryity? Not to say that with this different concept of how a reform is being implemented, namely that there is a need for the involvement of all the actors who will undertake to implement this reform, in the end we cannot understand this obsession. I'm entering the molecule. I'll get an example here. That is why moleculosis is not predicted in evaluation: why is it the host body's evaluation done and - for example - we have a staff member with thirty years' experience and another young person who enters with a degree, doctoral and foreign languages, who will be more than one? Because a service can have a large number of staff who have thirty years of service and need from the young person who has doctoral and foreign languages, or vice versa. That is why moleculosis cannot stand. And I am ending with the 'excellent laws' of the previous governments on mobility mentioned by Mr Javarras. Yes, it is true that a number of mobilisation arrangements have been introduced under Mr Mitsotakis' office and provided for the redistribution of personnel on the basis of real needs. Did they? Oh, no. Why? In order to complete the transfer or transfer, it took about two years, and when the employee came to cover the job, it had not been covered. Legislations 4093/2012 and 4172/13, which provided for the compulsory movement of officials, the opinion of the services councils and the strict observance of deadlines. If this were not complied with, it was a serious disciplinary misconduct and eventually led to non-application. So we didn't apply any laws that you are considered excellent. Finally, with regard to the regulation of conflicts of interest, I would like to mention the following: the Government has provided that if the register is not completed by civil servants, it is possible for the private sector to regulate and participate, and it has stated and promised that it will also bring legislation on this conflict of interests. And he brought it. I do not understand why, on behalf of the Opposition, there is a strong attempt to obscure this. This obsession in the private sector can therefore be explained only by the approach taken by the New Democracy in opening up the administration to the private sector. Finally, I would like to refer to the percentages, particularly those relating to...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u265	Mrs Theleritis, third time 'end'. But now, look, you've reached eight and a half minutes, nine.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u266	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u267	You've covered twice as much time as you are.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u268	I'm done. For the categories of tritecs and polyteces, I will mention some census data for 2011. The number of families with three is at least fifty - eight thousand eight hundred thirty - two. The number of families with four children at thirty thousand four hundred thirty one and five children at seven thousand five hundred forty - three. The quota was therefore made following a study and followed by the percentages present in the population. In conclusion, I would stress that in fact, in public administration, and more generally in the government, it plans and implements various parallel programmes. The reason for this is that we believe that we can achieve the government's strategic goal, which is to get out of the crisis with society upright, with an administration open to citizens to serve citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u269	Mr Georgiodas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I was going to deal with the details of the articles, to explain the New Democracy vote. I cannot, however, avoid temptation on the basis of the colleagues who have heard before me making a small final comment. I think that already in consciousness and in the public service, as well as in Parliament, this legislation has started and is being called into question. It doubts the possibility of operating and the possibility of applying it, as the conditions set by it and the prehistory that we now have to read out from similar legislative initiatives by the Government do not make us any optimistic that anything that is envisaged will work. Of course, our main position, which I think all the speakers in the New Democracy have demonstrated, is that we do not guarantee objectivity in the final choice - which is the most important of all - and certainly does not serve the better functioning of the public, which must be the purpose and concern of the government, the better service of the citizen, the cover of all the vacant posts. On the contrary, there is a expectation of easy moves to a number of officials who, I fear, will be disproved, because the conditions will not be met, but when the time comes for the crisis, they will see that there is no objective criterion and that they will be slavery in a process in which there is no guarantee of sovereignty. In relation to the individual articles, I would like to explain the New Democracy vote. In Article 8, which provides essentially for support for services located in border regions, the New Democracy is, of course, in favour of any additional incentive, but we feel that this provision is incomplete because the most important to me, Minister, would be to have a minimum time to stay in these services. You are giving important incentives to anyone who goes, but we cannot talk at least for anyone who goes for a secondment year and for two years. We believe that a solution should be given which has more definitive characteristics. Of course, it is some services that are difficult, but this is the responsibility of the state, our state, to ensure that these services are staffed in remote areas. It cannot be a solution to give concrete - too much in my view, but in any case this can be assessed by everyone - incentives to go there, but only for one year, that is, it goes at least for one year and has a mind of when it will go away. I think that a period of at least three years for a secondment or five years for a transfer would be a time that would enable us all to say here today that we are in agreement today, because the services are actually based on border regions. With regard to Article 11 of the service, we are pleased that you are bringing in a separate article the provision which provides for the meeting of spouses or staff members abroad, as the way the foreign provision is formulated could not be voted on by us. On the contrary, we will support the provision that is for the staff member who serves within the country. I would like to hear - and I did not hear it, but I did not see it in the explanatory statement - some full justification for the reduction in the percentage of multiples. I have read the explanatory statement with caution on Article 25, and while it refers to the increase, to the declining retreats, because the percentage is not covered, I have not seen a single word about the luxurious ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u271	Now you didn't hear it a moment ago?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u272	There is nothing in the explanatory statement when there is a constitutional requirement to provide for these people, when their supreme body comes and raises objections to the hearing of bodies and when we see that there is a genuinely great demographic problem in the country. We, as a New Democracy, have tabled a topical question on the demographic problem, which will be discussed in the next few days. We really understand this choice. It was quite rightly said by this Step - and I repeat it at the moment - that when the New Democracy takes over as a government, this particular provision will change it. This is a commitment to our urgingness. Mr President, in relation to Article 40, the New Democracy understands the issues that exist in these enterprises. It understands to some extent the need for transfers, but it is not the context in which you bring this legislation clear in order to be able to support such a legislative initiative. We shall state'representations' in the provision of this article. I made a number of objections and reservations to Mr Vitta yesterday. The answers do not give me the right to consider the framework and the procedure clear. So the New Democracy attitude will be the one I mentioned. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to say that once again we have seen that the legislation comes in a way that does not have a time sequence and does not have a gradual escalation. It is only verbal on the part of the government that this expression should be used in order to be able on a stable ground, on institutionalised and applied practices, to be able to legislate and judge each time the government's legislative initiative. We therefore come to assess the government's legislative initiative today, when it is known that the Civil Service Tribunal, which is very important and for the functioning of this legislation, has not yet started to apply. I think, therefore, that the government should move much faster even on these initiatives, which it thinks is good, even though we regard them as negative, in any case, for them to be supported. Even she does not support her own legislative initiatives. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, Mr. Georganta. I will give the floor to Mr Papatheodorou's Special Speaker of the Democratic Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u274	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, Minister, I intended to start with a comment today, but I think that time is limited. I just want to say that it is the Greek Parliament's duty to ensure through education, through education, that violence in the minds of children is eliminated by culture, so that we do not today have violence in verbal, physical or psychological terms. For the bill and amendments, I will begin, Minister, with a reference to mobility in relation to certain sensitive areas. We have also discussed this in committee. I do not think it is understandable today also in the constitutional requirement for the protection of islands, but also in what we call sensitive areas, island and mountain areas, when there is a mobility process, that the simple opinion, for example the mayor or head of a service, should not be needed to explain to the committee which decides whether its needs are ruthless and ultimately included in the thinking of the decision on the transfer or secondment of staff. Why am I saying that? There is no need here and certainly there cannot be a decisive opinion or a binding opinion, but it is simply an opinion of a service agent in Erymanthos or a mayor in Tylos or Kassos, as it has been said, about whether the employees of the service should be moved at that time, in which I think it is reasonable but also necessary to protect the needs of the service and, of course, to facilitate the staff in the framework of voluntary mobility. I say this because the addition of three words, invoking the constitutional requirement that, in sensitive areas - mountains and islands, it is necessary to express an opinion from the responsible official, whether he is the mayor or the chief, I think he will guide the committee in terms of both the content and the needs of the service, but also the possibility that the official should be able to move, if possible every time. The second is Article 16, Minister. In Rule 16 we discussed it again, because the EPP Group had called on the committee. Indeed, he made a very substantiated proposal. But look at this documented proposal, which is very technical - I acknowledge it as you said before - it has two key elements: connecting each unit with a unique identification number - that you could write it in - and connecting each official's VAT with that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u275	But that's what's happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u276	From that point of view, this would facilitate the immediate training of the organograms. Because we're not against the digital organogram, to God! What we are saying is that, after the evaluations and job profiles, there must be a procedure for the immediate establishment of the digital fund, because without that the law does not apply. And it doesn't only apply...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u277	Mr Papatheodorou, there is the Single Payments Authority, which is the basis itself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u278	Well, Minister, I didn't want to raise it, but I would urge you to sit down and read the Rules of Procedure a little bit.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u279	He has no right to speak to the gentleman.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u280	And I'm telling you that, since the President isn't telling you, I think he was ready to tell you. First, before...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u281	Mr. Papatheodorou, I didn't want to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u282	I was interrupted by the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u283	The Minister interrupted you. And since the Minister had previously interrupted Mr Davakis, who accepted the interruption in order for the Minister to give some clarification to his questions, so I, too, left the Minister to help you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u284	Understood. Mr President, I really did not ask the Minister a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u285	Yeah, but you've been to him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u286	I will then ask him a question, since it was kind, in addition to the amendments, to be put on the law. That's why I told you to read the Rules of Procedure. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Not only did you have the right to do so, Minister, but also the minimum parliamentary tactics should have led you to avoid it. But that's none of my business. So what I am saying to you is this: in relation to Article 16, we can move on to an immediate training of the register. Without the register, we can't proceed to the digital organogram. And if we don't make the digital organogram, we don't have any transfers or secondments or mobility. And of course, we don't have it until 30 April. Madam Minister, may I remind you of the request made by several officials on the date of 15 April 2017. It is impossible for the public to respect it, because, as I have said, it is a big Saturday, but also to return to the previous agency a number of workers who may be in other cities and have to change family life, as well as a number of others, if you like, staff or personal situations. Look at it, 'cause it's nothing. To go 30 June I think it will help these people who, anyway, will either have been rejected or unable to retain their secondment and return to the previous services. It doesn't change anything on the substance, it's a date. Look at it. I think we can do this. In this context, we welcome the legislative improvement of Article 24. It is right, necessary and rational, and we will really support it. Two words on the amendments. There are two amendments signed by Mr Vernardakis. The first amendment refers to the situation where it is not possible to transfer the credit from the staff member to the service where he has been seconded. Since it is not possible to transfer credits from entities of the general government - the 2013 Act - the payment of all kinds of remuneration and allowances of their organic position is borne by the institution from which they have been seconded, other than those associated with the exercise of their duties in the area and the post justifying their payment. So they're paid by the Directorate-General for Coordination. That is the amendment that the Minister brings. First of all, I do not see why we would say no to such an amendment, when the position has more, if you wish, than the previous one and someone should cover this procedure. But look at that, because this is where the wicked, ladies and gentlemen start. This amendment should have been accompanied by the Ministerial Amendment under a general number 764. According to this amendment, the heads of the other organic units of the Directorate-General for Coordination are chosen from among the officials of the Directorate-General for Coordination, including those who are seconded, who are grade I and are graduates of the National School of Public Administration of the Centre for Public Administration or have a PhD or a postgraduate degree in at least annually. What you want to do, Minister, are secondments to the Directorate-General for Coordination, which will be of choice, as you have done so far, and at the same time, to link them to new fees. Why don't you put it together? Why are these two amendments not linked to one text and you bring them into two? The answer is understandable. You break it into two amendments so that, on the one hand, it can be used - as you have the right - to bring the population to officials who you want to the Directorate-General for Coordination and, on the other hand, too simply to change the payroll of these officials. We have no reason to support this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u287	Thank you, Mr. Papatheodorou. The reason for this is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Manolakos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u288	Today's day, yes, it's a day against women's violence. It is a social phenomenon, with specific causes of economic, political, social. It is the extreme racial distinction between exploiting societies. Violence is not just physical, but also unemployment, industrial relations - rubber, redundancies, commercialisation and the deterioration of state structures and so much more. I say this because with this bill, if you wish, it turns out and shatters the illusion for philosophical administration of the urban state, where the increase in profitability will go hand in hand with the welfare of the wage earners and the general public. It's a great lie! May the Minister or the SYRIZA rapporteur say that the New Democracy and the PASOK are responsible. Of course, previous governments have promoted a number of unpopular laws, but you too have not abolished them. The confrontation between you is about the property of Koumoundouros, but not about the tens of thousands of gaps that need to be filled with recruitment. On the contrary, the bill seems to go ahead and mergers and abolitions and, at the same time, it will go ahead with the definitive closure of the companies of the Hellenic Defence Systems, throwing the workers on the road, uncertainty, giving false hopes. ‘They may be transferred to any vacant posts of other organisations, or if they exist in service,’ referred to in Article 40, as amended by Amendment 767, which the Deputy Minister for National Defence confirmed yesterday. But if there is one - and if that is what we wish to do - we will be expressing ourselves with the'residents' - that does not specify the terms of employment, the type of contract, the level of pay and other rights which workers would have. If you defined them, we would vote for the amendment, i.e. whether it was binding on all these people to work. However, I would like to say the other thing, because it is an important place: For the country and for the workers the Single Defence Industry Agency needs. This needs and will have a mission and defence of the country and a guarantee of territorial integrity, free from the alliances of war. Unemployment will also be tackled and commitments and dependencies on war materials and equipment from other countries that are part of the murder plans of NATO and the European Union. With regard to articles that were not put before us yesterday, we say that the mutual transfer and part-session are part of the single mobility system, that is to say, strict transfer and co-service, because they require new conditions. Overall, however, the main and most important thing is that requests to cover posts go through a first crisis of ministers and coordinators and a second of the Central Mobility Committee. There is, therefore, a deterioration in the issue of secondment as a whole. For us, transfers and secondments and co-service and mutual transfer are the conquest and right of all workers, according to their needs. No connection between transfers, distractions and mobility and evaluation. Now cover all organic gaps with recruitment and permanent appointments. In the case of Chapter II with incompatibilities, there are two elements. One is that some measures are being taken for the conflict of interest in the exercise of tasks, although everything is perforated and not just the case of Baroz, but also of Commissioners and others, who sell secrets from the administration for enrichment. However, these measures that you propose, in which we will be expressed with the 'present', cannot cover the fact that you will bring staff from the private sector for managers. That's right, Mr. Bernardakis. The New Democracy has opened it up. That is why we call 'the present'. By the way, he gave us evidence of a public representative at the hearing showing that he left in 2011 40%. Three years ago, civil servants completed a special form for digitisation. What happened? You searched for it? With the opportunity to say that Article 16 also needs to be supplemented: there must be completeness, reliability, accessibility. There are proposals which have been heard before and by my colleague. In Chapter III, we vote 'presents' in most of the articles. They're urban modernizations. They do not anticipate the ever-increasing subsistence problems that lead to a collapse in particular of social structures, that is, as far as the needs of the people are concerned. We have tabled two amendments which the Minister did not accept because, he said, further consultation is needed. What are we asking? We were asking for the workers. In one amendment we are proposing to cover some of the enormous and permanent needs - which you all admit - of public health and welfare units, by permanentising those who work in the publication of this law, by means of a service document or by contracts, at the request of them. So, we're talking about serving with qualified doctors, nurses, technicians who will serve permanent and constant patient needs. Your refusal shows that you choose selectively. Let me tell you something. The amendment to extend contracts to the water company in Thessaloniki you accepted it. And we will vote for it. Welcome home. Not six months. Permanent and stable work, if these people need it. We are also voting for Amendment No 771 on the staffing of permanent staff at the Ministry of Culture. It shows that the form of emergency is at the expense of both workers and the public. But this is where you didn't find a way of understanding and accepting. As far as ministerial amendments are concerned, we will vote on Amendment No 773. In Amendment No 764 and in Amendment No 765 we are voting 'no'. We are voting 'at present' on the rest of the four. We are also voting for Amendment No 777. So behind the declarations for effective administration and state, there is the great tax evasion of the people and the cuts in social policy expenditure to follow up the State aid of domestic groups, especially capitalist profitability. That is what you all agree on. For these reasons, we are voting against your reactionary bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u289	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. Mr Barriottas, special speaker from the river, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u290	Thank you, Mr President. I will speak from my position for two minutes, although I think it is not a wise thing to repeat and say more or less the same many times. It is a bill whose debate has been concluded, I would remind you, in accordance with the urgency procedure, which in fact introduces a number of legislation which will be voted on in the next two, three weeks by means of the urgent and urgent procedure, as a result of the pressure of assessment or, if you wish, the impossibility of the government to prepare, prepare and submit drafts in their time, possibly the government's reluctance to discuss extensive issues for which it knows in advance that there are problems. Because I have already heard the answer that the Minister has given to Mr Georgiadis by saying that we are struggling to save the country from the situation you have brought it, by addressing Mr Georgiadis, I would like to say that I am going to upset you, but I am very afraid that what you are struggling with - and you have achieved it very much - is to ensure that you are still a political force that in the field of administration, merit and reform in the public sector has exactly the same pursuits and ambitions as the previous ones. I think that this bill best documents this, as good ideas and things, which are largely requirements of 'bad' foreigners and are positive, such as transparency, digitisation and posting all gaps on the internet in a homogeneous manner, are undermined by the completely eroded same old system of selection of officials who are transferred by committees, which seemingly reminiscent of the way in which all choices are made to the public. In other words, with committees which have no objective procedure and no concept of sovereignty. I said the day before that the trick is well known. We fly into a basket of many qualifications, which are taken into account, but without any objective method. There are methods and those who want to know where to find them. And I know very well that you know where you could find them, too. Unfortunately, however, we have here the perpetuation of an old-fashioned, old-fashioned, old-fashioned, so-called government in the same way as the old ones. I am not going to go into the details of the articles and amendments, which are the well-known rosary that follows. These are micro-deals necessary or less necessary for changes or corrections to the public. So I'll stay there. I think it is characteristic and it should be stressed that another truly large reform is referred back in the same way, as was done in 2011. I shall therefore express my suspicion, despite the fact that we shall vote on Rule 24, Minister. I would remind you, however, that it was legislated in the same way as in 2011. And then there were presiding decrees pending. It was relegated in exactly the same way by Mr. Katrugalos as the result of the Memorandum commitments at the beginning of 2015. Mr Katrugalos, like you today, has enacted an obligation to issue presidential decrees which have never been adopted. I fear that the political will to implement digitisation in the public sector, which is huge, has been lacking so far. But, because you're swinging my finger in my village, they say, "I'll cough, my mother, I'll see you, my child." However, it is essential that this whole process takes years. The problem is enormous, as is the delay. And that's something you know. I hope you're honest. I said I'd vote for it. Hope is dying lately, but that's a huge problem. And I will close with the following observation. I would remind you that in a paragraph of Article 24 it says the amazing'services can use the platforms they already have for a limited period of time until...'. Forgive me, but this is a good explanatory statement. For a text in the bill the ‘limited period’ means absolutely nothing. It is a blessing that can be done, but it may not be done. Without clauses, sanctions and clear detailed forecasts, nothing will be done. And I fear that we will end up where we had begun, that is, perhaps after 16 months of the duty of the services to go through the digital signature under the terms of a presidential decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u291	Thank you, Mr. Barriotta. Mr Papachristopoulos, I will give the floor to the Minister for a legislative improvement. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u292	I would like to table one last piece of legislation, Mr President. At the end of paragraph 1 of Article 19, "The secondments to posts provided for in the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of the Greeks shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure", because there is obviously a constitutional check and shall be excluded.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u293	Good, Minister. I would ask that it be distributed to Members. Here, Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u294	Thank you, Mr President. I think it has almost exhausted - and indeed, in detail - the whole argument about this bill. However, I would like to repeat that for many decades the pillar of the survival of political parties has been public administration, customer relations - I do not need to repeat them - and it is causing reactions, something new in this part. I was pleased to hear Mr Vernardakis, with whom I had the honour and luck of seeing you again in a timely question about e-government. In fact, I was glad to see the in-depth appreciation of the anatomy of this bill and it covered me almost completely. I would like to repeat two articles, which for me are a station, and Article 24 plus Article 38, which relate to e-government. I would also like to remind you that it is not just the six billion we lose from the use of electronic signatures. It is another seven billion - Mr Vernardakis knows - from the fact that we are not collecting taxes and fines because of the lack of e-government in Justice, where four hundred thousand cases are pending for more than four years and there is paper and it goes on to say. I really think it's a big, innovative step. It's not the only one. No Minister said too much. I think they've both admitted it's the first step. I want to believe - and I think it is very important - that this government believes that e-government will open up other doors and other horizons to the development of the country. I don't want to get any further. I want, however, as long as I have, because the news is running, I want to say a few things, because the country is in a historic big turning point, the second memorandum is negotiating and every day there are crocodile tears of exaggeration, destruction that we are going for a fourth memorandum that we have new measures. So I am right - and I take the responsibility of what I say - the short-term measures for the second assessment are almost data and I say them already: variable interest rates are stable, less than 1% to 1.5%. The extension - an extension from 28 to 32.5- that is, four and a half years - which will give us more than four billion, is also a given one. I should also like to say that this whole thing has prepared the ESM and it does not have to go through the electoral process of other governments. I'm saying this because Mr. Juliarakis said it yesterday, he said it again. I would also like to remind you that BLOOMBERG is prevalent in debt regulation, and that is where the ten-year bonds, for the first time, came down below 7%, to 6.92%. To conclude, I would also like to say that it is a marathon at this historic moment, a historic turning point for all of us, and we are in the last two - three kilometers from the forty - two. There's no way we won't end. We'll finish. And because there is a lot of noise about the elections and something like that, it is a sacred obligation of this government, it has been given a specific mandate a year and two months ago, never return to the lists, when the "SIEMENS", when the remoula of the armaments, when the remoula of the Olympic Games, when the corruption and the strife. It is an explicit command and has this command to keep it as an eye daughter. I say that because he will be judged. First of all, I want to say something about Mr Davaki. Its location is very decent. Not all yelling extremities. It's a really decent voice. On the contrary, I heard a delicacy a moment ago, which I cannot understand, and I believe that sooner or later, this delicacy will turn back to them. Finally, I want to say that elections will take place in 2019 explicitly. It is a mandate of the Greek citizens a year and two months ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u295	Thank you Mr Papachristopoulos, with whom he completed the cycle of the seconds of the rapporteurs and special speakers. They have so far called for two parliamentary representatives to intervene. So we will give them the floor, first of all Mr Javarra, Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy. Then there's Mr. Lappas, and in the end the Minister will close. Mr. Javarra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u296	Mr President, there is one point that we have just dealt with. This is about the parliamentary order and the debates in Parliament, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. I fear that this general conscience has not been assimilated by some of the members of the government. So it happened just now that we had a clear violation of both Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure and Rule 66 by a minister who, without being responsible for the bill and somehow managed to intercept the floor, was in Stepma to speak of an amendment he tabled, came to the point of addressing Members personally. It's a double offense. Firstly, because the reason is given only to the relevant Minister and he is responsible for tabling a bill or tabling an amendment. The House is not a club of conversations, it is not a café, so that anyone who goes outside can come in, go up to the Step and tell anything that goes through their minds. There is also a second issue which insults me personally, but also as a Member of Parliament and as a Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy. They cannot speak in words that do not honor democracy and neither the parliamentary process. It does not have the right of any Minister, firstly, to indicate to a President of Parliament how he should give and distribute the floor and, secondly, how he should behave in Parliament and during the parliamentary procedure. Some have obviously not understood that the government in this area has a guest position. This space is the place where popular sovereignty is truly and symbolically exercised, that is, what gives us the right today and always say that this is the place of democracy. So whoever comes to this step and ignores the basic provisions of the Rules of Procedure, obviously does not respect democracy. And that, at least to the extent that our democratic duty imposes on us, we are not going to allow it. There is also a second point and I would like to raise again the right to speak on this subject and to speak on this subject in the Rules of Procedure. In spite of the fact that Mr Vernardakis intercepted the speech, he addressed to New Democracy and personally to me and spoke about seriousness. He said that these arguments we have put forward here from the point of view of Officerial Response lack seriousness. So I ask myself: is it serious about the view and the perception of a majority that comes into this House, it intercepts the floor, it speaks without having the right, it also violates Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure which prohibits a speaker from personally addressing a particular Member? Because we need to know - you know - that speakers from the Step of Parliament and from where they stand are addressed to the House and not to a particular person. And I ask: is this the seriousness of the government's collective person? With this seriousness, of course, we have nothing to do with it and we will keep the distances imposed by the respect of the parliamentary procedure, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, and the way the Constitution and the laws want it. There is another issue which is raised. So the Minister is serious, who, in order to speak of a bill which is being discussed, clearly shows that he has not taken care to look at - and only a simple look - at the report of the Scientific Council of Parliament and to see that it is a basic principle, not only for staff law, but also for the legislation that is in force and which is now being introduced by the SYRIZA to amend, which says that the staff member's association with a specific service is done in two ways: by appointment and transfer. So the transfer or appointment is a moment in the staff member’s service, which is absolutely excellent. Because the rule wants the employee to get his pension, that is, to travel his service life to the end, where he has been appointed. So here the transfer, on the basis of Article 103 of the Constitution, paragraphs 4 and 7 - I said yesterday, but I did not receive any reply - must be assigned to the AACC precisely because, according to the Constitution, this independent authority is responsible for selecting the staff to be assigned to a specific post, either when it is appointed or when it is transferred. In fact, all the theory and all the legislation in force, including the case law of the Council of State, insists on saying, in a convincing sense of the Government's Ministers, who respect, the Constitution, that the transfer takes place from the organic position which the official holds until that time, and that he is appointed to the new post. Therefore, on this basis, the guarantees, the constitutional guarantees for the functioning of the AACC, must be guaranteed. This very simple thought, I address it to those who questioned the seriousness of the New Democracy as a government. It was respected by the then Minister of Administrative Reform, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, when with Law 4172 Article 91 in conjunction with the Ministerial Resolution 222/74 he also made mobilisation, set the criteria of selection and, above all, did something, which today seems to be an oasis of impartiality in the face of the opacity imposed by the draft law. What did he do? The interview, which is the most precarious means of choice, is very arbitrary. She had been appointed to be public, and the interview records were recorded. So, do you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the boldness, the democratic sensitivity required by a democratically elected government, look at the officials you want to turn into the eyes and tell them that you have exhausted all the scope of the Constitution for Mobility? And in any case, at some point, look at the Minutes of the House, what you were saying as a party, when mobility was legislated for the first time. You will, however, allow me to say with great respect, Minister, that what you are currently bringing, and which is obviously the spiritual creation of another minister, is a legislative flaw, because it has been repeatedly passed by Parliament as a regulation in many forms. So this greasy was made up by someone with two actions. Firstly, it was based on the issue of historical and institutional memory, which those who are now resisting this effort, are able to know very well that, in these ways you legislate, you are not protecting the civil servant. Because the civil servant is only protected when you provide him with institutional guarantees that ensure his perpetuality, impartial judgment, merit, and above all ensure the possibility of judicial review of administrative acts. And it tells you the specific document I have invoked, the report by the Scientific Council. "Watch..." he says. He doesn't say it explicitly, because he might be afraid. ‘Watch out. This practical practice of this interview should be formulated in such a way that it includes and reflects the questions and answers that are being answered, but in particular it should include the individualised opinion and judgment of each of them who form this tripartite council." The second energy - after the extradition, which I told you, our memory - is the coating of the bill, but also of your word here, with a candy which is a milestone. Maybe, when you became government, for large masses of the electorate it was sweet. Because then you spoke the way you speak today. In other words, you have done nothing but indicate two things: showing as an enemy of the people the New Democracy and the previous governments and stirring up the most humble instincts against politics and politics. Today, then, after two years in the governance of the country, everyone knows you. You can't hide. Your words are now so opaque that your face is given that it has taken its final form, that is, the hideous form of the political party, which intercepted the Greek people's vote in order to lead him to heaven and finally led him to hell. But since I see that you are also very sensitive to transparency, you will allow me to ask - I respect that, and I believe you - for at least in the next few days to provide us with the necessary information - the public documents I mean, from which I mean the following: firstly, that the loan that your predecessor has had has been repaid, that is, that you have paid the balance of 210 million, due from 1998 to the Ionian and People's Bank, which is currently being held by Alpha Vank, which, in fact, you blame and is well known to those who are part of the relevant committee what you are dragging at it every time. And secondly, you must provide us with a legal title to acquire this property, which the Prime Minister, as President of your party, said, belongs to SYRIZA because it allegedly participates in politics today the old "Greek Left". But that's false. And whoever just uses falsehood to have a testament from the mortgage guard commits a crime, which is provided for in Article 241, if I am not deceived, of the existence of a false attestation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u297	Mr. Javarra, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u298	I shall conclude, Mr President. So, because you, as Caesar's wife in politics, should not be seen, but be - to reverse this - tell us what the position of your party is with certain elements and we have no reason to stop this issue from doing so. By then, however, I think that the competent judicial authorities should investigate this matter. The sensitivity of the financial prosecutors, which for every businessman - even in the newspapers - takes the opportunity to prepare persecution, should also be seen here how effective it is. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u299	Thank you, Mr. Javarra. The parliamentary representative has the floor in SYRIZA, Mr Lappas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u300	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Javarras raised issues of state formation, political responsibility, issues of popular sovereignty and political consistency. He raised all the political issues that have prevailed over the last century in our country. What should I answer now? Mr. Javarra, you have reinstated the subject of SYRIZA's buildings. We told you in a thousand ways on the Committee of Inquiry. We gave you the paperwork. It's in room 162, go and see them. Shoot them, copy them, see them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u301	There are no such documents. You cheated on us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u302	Let me talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u303	Mr. Javarra, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u304	He addressed me, and that's why I'm answering him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u305	You will be asking, if you will, on personal grounds, if he has touched on you, that is to say, that he has not touched you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u306	There is no such matter, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u307	Mr Javarra, you have already said - and rightly so - your objections to certain conducts, holidays, speeches and so on. But now you do the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u308	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u309	Come on, Mr. Lappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u310	Mr President, it has now become a collective conscience in this country, and it has been recorded in its memory, and to end with this fairy tale: only two parties are consistent and have their loans on the one hand and serve them on the other, SYRIZA and the Communist Party of Greece. The two previous major parties have a debt of EUR 401 million since 2011 and have not paid a single euro, while banks are auctioning real estate, homes, businesses and any other assets the borrower has. They'll tell us what they're gonna do. And not to remind of what happened with the Canary of Chania, where in a loan of 700,000 euros, which has been in 2007, the Mitsotakis family has not paid a single euro, too - since 2007, please - and lately, under the pressure of our committee's work, it has gone and made a regulation. And what arrangement does it make? In thirty instalments, about, if I remember well, where each dose will be 2 000 per month and the last dose of the decade will be 645 000 euros. Mercy! Stop it, then. The Greek people know that, Mr. Javarra. I am going to the point of law that you have raised, and that is of particular interest. What you said in principle about the transfer and transfer. You've confused the switchover. Article 103 of the Constitution, Mr Javarra, says in paragraph 4: "They cannot be transferred without an opinion or subsidence or ceased without a decision of a Board of Directors." He goes on to say, “... with an opinion of a board of directors.” Always, for the transfer that is mandatory.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u311	Read also paragraph 7.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u312	Us in the mandatory nature of our bill on intra-ministerial mobility, do you know what it says? Not just that. It's flooding beyond the Constitution. ‘Authorised secondment of officials, after agreement of the Board of Directors, shall be authorised, meaning that any decision, decision or decision shall not exceed, differentiate or override or omission from the agreement of the Board of Directors. What, then, are you questioning the provision? But here, do you know what you're wrong? You do not want to accept the voluntary nature, because it is not in your political philosophy, and it is not in your political philosophy, because all your political behaviour and action over the last decades has the image of "decide and order" for the entire staff of the country. You're the one who made the transitions arbitrary, you're the ones who distracted them. That's why you can't understand the nature of the bill. That is why we have taken whatever initiative we have taken since the beginning - remember the first bill on the abolition of the political contingency, where there were provisions for the reform of public administration - and you have taken a retrograde attitude there. E-government, the national register bill, today this legislative initiative. Anything that offends, affects or shuts holes in your clientele perception and your clientele state, you enemy it and you fight it with rabies. Why do you oppose exactly what you want not to lose under your feet, which is the client state, but which can no longer exist for many reasons, not just our own social and economic, but also European and international. You have to understand that. Mr President, if he did not say what Mr Javarras said about transfer and transfer, I was only going to say this. Today, our debate is under state control and in the light of two very important events, a historic event and an event of extreme opportune, sad news. I start from the second, to say what our position is - and I must say it as a SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman - on the events of Moria, sad events which are the end of a huge suffering and tragedy that is the refugee crisis, close to the security crisis, as we have said many times in the economic crisis. And from this point of view we are saddening this incident, which is an end to this tragedy. But, before Mr. Georgiadis here, he wanted to teach us lessons of humanity and solidarity. Who? that, whose word is, not just extreme, but entirely identical to Europe's extreme right-wings and not just. Before we became a government and now, as a party, Mr President - not only us, and other forces, especially the Left - with humanity and solidarity, we also faced refugee as a crisis and refugees. The second event is of a historical nature, Mr President, and I would say a very teaching and teaching character. It is the fact that today is the anniversary of the blowing up of the bridge of Gorgopotamos, a brilliant page of racing, but also the unity of the Greek people, where by joint organization, by joint decision and joint action, expressed the entire Greek people in that resistance surveillance. And I would say that it shows us the way that today, under such circumstances, we have lost part of our national sovereignty, which society is under comitology, in an emergency situation, as Mr Vernardakis has set it, when there are issues, there must be national understanding and we must deal with them together. If we were to say that the comitology issues or the memoranda are such issues, I would say that, at internal level, such a matter is also the question of public administration. Do you know why? Because the public administration and its reform, every bill coming and seeking its reform, raises the big issue of the country's governance. When we say governance of the country, its main component is whatever effort is made, serious and honest, for the reform of public administration. I would like to say to you, Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, that in the 1970s, the President of the Council of the French State, Edward Geoffrey, visited us two things. Firstly, France founded the National School of Public Administration in 1994. I mentioned it in committee too. Since the School, founded in 1944, listen to who graduated - the top of France's political and state leadership - Ziskar d'Esten, Miteran, Sirac, Olad today and a large number of political and state actors and many others. Even left-wing officials graduated from the French Civil Administration School. He also talked about a new ethics in public life and public administration and recommended that we take measures from the beginning of the 1970s, that we do this, too, for a new ethics in public life and public administration in Greece. This had to be done, he says, to breathe air of service, integrity, impartiality and dignity. We didn't. And we didn't do it for decades. And now we are being swamped by the finger that as far as these gentlemen are concerned, who built such a client state in extreme form, SYRIZA is also responsible for the twenty months of governance of the country, which is the fourth bill that brings about the reform of the public administration. This must also be stressed in particular. And one last, Mr President, to close. What the honourable Member said - he is a law-abiding lawyer - can be based on the Rules of Procedure. But, Mr President, making our conversation here at a café level when we say we never become a café or a club - I do not understand, Mr Javarra, what is wrong with the café for the villages and the clubs for the people concerned...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u313	Let's do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u314	But would you invoke it? It is important that Minister Vernardakis took the floor to talk about an amendment to the bill we are discussing. It also has a right, I would say, to deal with the bill, since it is his amendment to the bill. Will you forbid him to talk about the bill? Is that possible? I can't understand it. Invite the Rules of Procedure, while it is not a Minister and a Member of Parliament elected. I cannot understand, Mr Javarra, what you are saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u315	It's simple. It's very simple.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u316	And one last thing for Mrs Manolakou and I'll go. Comrade Manolakou, Mrs Manolakou, fellow Member, may I say something to you: If you say that these bills are just urban modernisations - and it is - why are you rejecting this?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u317	We are voting 'Saints'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u318	Do you think the people have lost their urban modernizations? If you believe it, ask your members and executives, who are a gangbarbaiter in Germany or Belgium or Scandinavia, to see whether or not these modernisations at the level of public administration benefited them as citizens in terms of the level of provision of services. Just look at it, because sometimes reality makes us reminiscent and revise a lot of things. We're reviewing a few. You do not need to be relentless about the level of provision of services to the citizen. The administrative machine is the brain of every state. If the brain is well thought, then the state is rule of law. If it's not, then it's a despair state. That's why we need to see a lot of things, Mrs Manolakou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u319	Of course, but modernizations that satisfy the people, not capital.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u320	No urban modernization in the world, Mrs Manolakou, has hurt the people. Neither the bourgeois revolution nor the satisfaction of civil rights harmed any people. If you want to take it a little further, we'll talk about it again. But to say that urban modernizations have been harmed is a historic mistake and you must see it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u321	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House is organised, thirty students and students and three educational attendants from the General School of Amphisia. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u322	Ladies and gentlemen, a debate is being concluded here, which has really been of great interest to both the issues of the bill, but also to issues of topicality and other issues. I think, however, that there was a debate in general good climate. For my part, I have listened carefully to the positions of everyone, namely from the point of view of the bodies in the debate that has taken place, but also the Members of Parliament, of course. Several of these with amendments or legislative improvements have been incorporated into our proposal and as logical and possible to happen. However, some colleagues have heard or suggested a number of things, which are reasonable, but for reasons of greater consultation with the relevant ministries, since some have also been subject to the competence of other ministries, they have not been accepted. Of course, there are some other things, such as my colleague's amendment from the Communist Party of Greece for assistant doctors. You know that this government's struggle is for stable and permanent work. Unfortunately, we are being forced by budgetary reasons at the moment to not be able to do this horizontally. However, our aim is clean, the permanent recruitment that comes is a priority for health and, of course, this struggle will continue steadily, without losing the ultimate goal, which is permanent and stable work, despite all the difficulties of this time. However, what I did not hear in this debate, which I would expect to hear, is a self-criticist talk from parties that have exercised power over the public sector, which has shaped these years. Dysphetological, bureaucratic, inefficient, well-thought down, that's what the Greek people have been saying for many years. And that, obviously, was not legal, it was not legal, it was made by governments and by parties that managed the fate of this country with names and addresses. I only remind you of the modernization of a time, the re-establishment of the state of another era. Great announcements that have remained empty, proved. You'll remember, I imagine, everyone who has come up with all these initiatives. Perhaps that is why some people who are involved in this seem to think that our intention today is the same. She's not the same, she's different. I'd suggest some people be a little more careful. Today some people come here with a cloak of transparency and merit, while they really had a way to prove this, but unfortunately they did not. That is not what I am saying about a sterile confrontation, because we have to say the truths in here and take our responsibilities accordingly. They have forgotten that we did not appoint Heads of State or Government to one night, not a few days before the elections suddenly. Also, we have not appointed managers and heads with old criteria. We haven't done that kind of thing. Others have done that. It was also heard that the AACC should be responsible for carrying out the mobility. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a new recruitment. It was analysed by Mr. Lappa as well. They are employees, who have been judged, appointed, experienced and moved. But here, Mr Javarra, you have shown us something I confessed to, but I did not remember it today and you reminded me of it: the mechanism through which the New Democracy fired. In other words, the mechanism is exactly the one you analyzed, that the transfer is "I'm fired on you from one place and I'm taking you to another". That's what I think was intelligent.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u323	The Council of State says that. Independent justice says so. The scientific report of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u324	Evidently, therefore, throughout this whole debate, it was heard that the AACC had to complete these procedures. Obviously, the AACC is a guarantee of transparency and dignity, but on the other hand, it cannot be viewed as anything else that moves outside the AACC, automatically and diagnosed. Under no circumstances should the need for an employee to be assessed on the basis of specific needs of a post by heads, who are already serving there and not by a central, centralised mechanism, such as the AACC, should be undermined. I shall refer to a few other things that have been heard here in other remarks. It has been heard, for example, that the seven-member committee is a diabetic. Whilst the committee, composed of members of the AACC, representing the Legal Council of the State, is a member of the highest administrative hierarchy, which is not partyly appointed, is to be regarded as a diabetic. It has also been heard that provision should be made for those who had a party post, should have a kind of incompatibility and should not be able to apply for official posts in the public sector. That is what you realise that it is not only against logic, but also with the Constitution, which ensures the right to join a party, without that having any effect. And my colleague didn't say it once. He said that more than one, although there was an answer in the intervening period. Not trusting civil servants, however, shows the way in which they perceive the public and obviously also binds to who they built it or tried to have such a public. And they fought a lot about it. Why, though, so lack of confidence in public officials? A corresponding mistrust, not to say an insult, was heard about the mayors as well. In other words, a colleague claimed that the mayors through the 50% and 65% limitation, in order to obtain the secondments and the transfers, would alter the organograms in order to present a fictitious hypotension. First of all, we all know that the organograms don't work out. There are checks. It does not result from an arbitrary crisis of the mayors, the organograms. Specific procedures are followed. In any case, the mayors, in this way, would also turn against themselves, in the sense that they would never be revealed that there are vacant posts, so they need recruitment. He'd come back to them again. After all, it reminded me of a little Camora-style reasoning. I don't know what your experiences are. It has also been heard that without organograms, position profiles, structure evaluation, mobility cannot succeed. Obviously, ladies and gentlemen. That is exactly what this bill formulates. In fact, Mr Vernardakis has brought the figures here and presented them in his speech, which have spoken precisely about the time series and the path ahead of us in order to complete this reform, which will be a great reform. That's why it takes time and it's having difficulties. But we are determined to go along with it. Another important thing that has been heard was the question of the interview, which much has been heard, that it is subjective and not structured. However, they overlooked those who observed this, that the interview is an additional element in the evaluation of the staff member, as the evaluation reports, the relevance of formal and substantive qualifications, the experience in the performance of corresponding duties and any other information relating to the staff registers of the staff member. These were ignored. The interview shall complement the evaluation process. One last point which has been raised at some point and I would like to say again is that the border benefit can be abolished or concealed. Well, let me just say once again that the frontier allowance is not abolished. It has nothing to do with reality. Ladies and gentlemen, some of the rapporteurs have also spoken clearly about the mandatory nature of mobility, that it is also an authoritarian choice and ineffective one. Obviously, they will remember political authoritarianism, the political obsession, with which in 2014 the then leadership proceeded with redundancies of officials, a decision not written in gold letters in the history of public administration in our country. The political leadership then used public administration to serve neoliberal targets. At the same time, it strengthened social automation to find allies in the implementation of this policy, a dangerous option that has sedated social cohesion in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years - several years - many words in the Greek language have lost their meaning. We are obliged today, in addition to this reform we are discussing, to reform words as well. The reform meant redundancies. This was reflected in Greek citizens. Reforming equal to redundancies or cuts in wages and pensions and making these half-words. Mobility meant redundancies, transferring from what we learned a moment ago to the mechanism meant redundancies. The famous availability, she was fired. The evaluation also meant dismissal. These were recorded in the consciousness of the Greek people, the Greek citizens. So this is what we are calling on us today to reform them, that is to say, that reform, mobility and evaluation are positive interventions rather than negative. We take it from the start, then. We conclude, of course, that these necessary interventions in the public sector described in the New Democracy programme will obviously mean redundancies. Ladies and gentlemen, our aim and practice is precisely at the reverse of this logic. It aims to create a public administration that is friendly and open to all, both to citizens and to workers. Obviously, the biggest argument that has been made is that we will not implement this reform, because obviously some people want it and make it a reality and make it a reality. This is not going to happen, however, even though a lot of people want it very much. This reform will be implemented, because we have time before us to complete it. It will be completed, because we are obliged to protect the public interest, the interests of civil servants, to contribute to the proper functioning of the public administration, of course, by recognising social needs, provided for in this bill. The juncture is decisive for our country, it is the moment when the second assessment is completed. All these issues have been raised in the debt debate. The juncture is decisive. Mr Papachristopoulos mentioned before and exactly what is happening with the immediate measures which have already been put forward. It was one of the last chances for them - because every time it seems - they thought the government would not last. The same happened in the first evaluation in May, which everyone believed would collapse. It didn't collapse. The evaluation is completed. The country has moved on. We're on second evaluation and it's over. The idea of the left-hand parentheses would do well to leave the forefront, and here we are to discuss fertile things and everything we can agree on, to put them together to take the country forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u325	Thank you, Minister. Let me make three announcements here. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition by the Chamber of ENIZELOS and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organised and operated, twenty-six members of the Grevena Association of Accountants. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I also have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and with Article n. Commission proposal: COM(2003) 660; Bull.: Luke Papademos, former Minister of State, Panagiotis Pikramenos, former Minister of State, Philip Sahinides, former Minister of Finance, George Zannia, former Minister of Finance, Gika Hardouvelis, former Minister of Finance and Yiannis Varoufakis, former Minister of Finance. Finally, I have the honour to announce to the House that the President of the Parliamentary Group of the Union of Centres, Mr Leventis, by letter to the President of Parliament, says that as a permanent parliamentary representative he designates the Member of Parliament, Mr Megalumustakas Anastasio. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction is adjourned: "The Single System of Mobility in Public Administration and Local Government, the obligations of the persons appointed in the positions of Articles 6 and 8 of the Act. Regulation (EC) No 3369/2016, inconsistent and prevention of conflicts of interest and other provisions’. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u326	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u327	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u328	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u329	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u330	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u331	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u332	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u333	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u334	Consequently, the Law of the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction: ‘The Single System of Mobility in Public Administration and Local Government, the obligations of the persons appointed in the positions referred to in Articles 6 and 8 of the Law. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are entering the motion for a resolution. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u335	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u336	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u337	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u338	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u339	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u340	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u341	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u342	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u343	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u344	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u345	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u346	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u347	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u348	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u349	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u350	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u351	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u352	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u353	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u354	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u355	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u356	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u357	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u358	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u359	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u360	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u361	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u362	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u363	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u364	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u365	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u366	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u367	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u368	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u369	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u370	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 5 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u371	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u372	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u373	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u374	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u375	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u376	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u377	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u378	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u379	Article 5 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u380	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u381	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u382	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u383	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u384	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u385	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u386	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u387	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u388	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u389	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u390	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u391	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u392	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u393	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u394	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u395	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u396	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u397	Article 7 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u398	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u399	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u400	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u401	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u402	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u403	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u404	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u405	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u406	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u407	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u408	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u409	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u410	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u411	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u412	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u413	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u414	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u415	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u416	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u417	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u418	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u419	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u420	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u421	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u422	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u423	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u424	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u425	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u426	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u427	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u428	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u429	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u430	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u431	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u432	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u433	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u434	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u435	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u436	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u437	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u438	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u439	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u440	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u441	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u442	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u443	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u444	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u445	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u446	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u447	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u448	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u449	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u450	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u451	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u452	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u453	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u454	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u455	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u456	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u457	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u458	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u459	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u460	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u461	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u462	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u463	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u464	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u465	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u466	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u467	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u468	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u469	So Article 15, to which the amendment will be incorporated under a general number of 775 and a specialist number 14 after its vote, has been accepted as it is by a majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u470	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u471	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u472	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u473	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u474	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u475	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u476	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u477	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u478	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u479	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u480	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u481	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u482	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u483	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u484	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u485	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u486	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u487	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 18 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u488	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u489	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u490	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u491	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u492	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u493	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u494	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u495	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u496	Article 18 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 19 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u497	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u498	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u499	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u500	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u501	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u502	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u503	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u504	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u505	Article 19 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u506	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u507	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u508	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u509	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u510	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u511	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u512	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u513	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u514	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u515	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u516	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u517	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u518	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u519	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u520	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u521	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u522	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u523	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u524	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u525	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u526	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u527	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u528	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u529	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u530	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u531	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u532	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u533	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u534	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u535	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u536	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u537	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u538	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u539	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u540	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u541	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u542	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u543	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u544	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u545	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u546	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u547	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u548	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u549	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u550	Article 24 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u551	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u552	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u553	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u554	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u555	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u556	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u557	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u558	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u559	Article 25 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u560	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u561	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u562	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u563	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u564	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u565	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u566	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u567	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u568	Article 26 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u569	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u570	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u571	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u572	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u573	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u574	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u575	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u576	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u577	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 28 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u578	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u579	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u580	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u581	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u582	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u583	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u584	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u585	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u586	Article 28 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 29 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u587	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u588	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u589	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u590	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u591	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u592	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u593	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u594	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u595	Article 29 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u596	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u597	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u598	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u599	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u600	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u601	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u602	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u603	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u604	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 31 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u605	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u606	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u607	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u608	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u609	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u610	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u611	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u612	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u613	Article 31 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u614	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u615	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u616	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u617	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u618	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u619	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u620	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u621	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u622	Article 32 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 33 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u623	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u624	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u625	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u626	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u627	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u628	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u629	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u630	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u631	Article 33 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u632	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u633	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u634	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u635	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u636	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u637	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u638	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u639	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u640	Article 34 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 35 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u641	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u642	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u643	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u644	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u645	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u646	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u647	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u648	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u649	Article 35 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 36 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u650	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u651	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u652	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u653	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u654	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u655	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u656	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u657	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u658	Article 36 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 37 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u659	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u660	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u661	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u662	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u663	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u664	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u665	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u666	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u667	Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 38 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u668	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u669	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u670	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u671	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u672	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u673	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u674	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u675	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u676	Article 38 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 39 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u677	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u678	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u679	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u680	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u681	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u682	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u683	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u684	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u685	Article 39 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 40 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u686	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u687	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u688	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u689	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u690	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u691	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u692	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u693	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u694	So Article 40, to which the amendment will be incorporated under a general number 767 and a special 7 after its vote, has been accepted as it is by a majority. We are entering the vote on the amendments. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 764 and a special number of five?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u695	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u696	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u697	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u698	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u699	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u700	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u701	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u702	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u703	The amendment, by a general number 764 and a special number 5, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 772 and a special number of 11?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u704	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u705	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u706	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u707	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u708	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u709	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u710	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u711	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u712	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 772 and a special 11 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 765 and a special number 6 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u713	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u714	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u715	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u716	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u717	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u718	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u719	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u720	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u721	The amendment, by a general number 765 and a special 6, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 767 and a special number 7 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u722	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u723	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u724	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u725	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u726	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u727	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u728	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u729	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u730	The amendment, by a general number 767 and a special 7, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of Article 40 of the draft law. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 773 and a special number 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u731	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u732	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u733	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u734	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u735	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u736	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u737	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u738	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u739	The amendment, by a general number 773 and a special 12, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 774 and a special number 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u740	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u741	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u742	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u743	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u744	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u745	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u746	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u747	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u748	The amendment, by a general number 774 and a special 13, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 775 and a special number 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u749	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u750	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u751	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u752	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u753	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u754	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u755	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u756	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u757	The amendment, by a general number 775 and a special 14, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of Article 15 of the bill. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 762 and a special number 3, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u758	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u759	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u760	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u761	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u762	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u763	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u764	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u765	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u766	Therefore, Amendment No 762 and Special Special 3 were accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote, and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of 771 and a special number of 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u767	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u768	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u769	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u770	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u771	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u772	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u773	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u774	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u775	The amendment, by a general number 771 and a special 10, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number 777 and a special 16, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u776	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u777	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u778	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u779	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u780	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u781	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u782	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u783	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u784	Therefore, Amendment No 777, and Amendment No 16, was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote, and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u785	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u786	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u787	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u788	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u789	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u790	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u791	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u792	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u793	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the Law of the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction: ‘The Single System of Mobility in Public Administration and Local Government, the obligations of the persons appointed in the positions referred to in Articles 6 and 8 of Law4369/2016, inconsistent and prevention of conflicts of interest and other provisions’ were accepted in principle, on articles and amendments. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u794	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u795	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u796	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u797	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u798	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u799	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u800	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u801	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u802	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Law of the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction: ‘The Single System of Mobility in Public Administration and Local Government, the obligations of the persons appointed in the positions of Articles 6 and 8 of Law No.4369/2016, incompatible and prevention of conflicts of interest and other provisions’ were accepted by a majority, in principle, of the articles, amendments and all of them and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u803	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u804	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-two students and two educational attendants from the Bartholomew High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-25-S1-commons.u805	With the consent of the House at 16.51 p.m., the sitting on Monday, November 28, 2016 at 18.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: topical questions.
