ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House. [[They are announced to the House by the Secretary of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Sarakiotis, Member of Parliament, Mr Phiotidas, the following:]] REFERENCE OF REFERENCES
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the issue of Friday 14 October 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 75/11-10-2016 by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the upgrading of the Messara Agricultural School in Heraklion. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 63/10-10-2016 of the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister of Education for Research and Religious Affairs, about the depreciation of Rhodes from the cancellation of the establishment of the Department of Tourism, based in Rhodes and English-speaking sections of tourist studies, to be addressed to foreign students with tuition fees. 3. Eleni Zaroulia to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism on the reduction of the national sovereign judiciary through the ratification of the CETA Agreement between Canada and the EU. 4. The question asked by MP Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Has Kefalidou to the Minister of Culture and Sport about the new burglary in the Theatre Museum. 5. The question under number 82/11-10-2016 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Ioannis Delis, Minister for Research and Religious Education, concerning the problem of the country's professional high school. 6. The Question No 79/11-10-2016 by Z' Vice-Chairman of the Parliament and MP of the Athens I of Potamis Mr Spyridonos Lykoudis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy concerning the regeneration of the Picrodafni stream in Attica Prefecture. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 80/11-10-2016 by Congressman Pireos of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, on the analogues of the Greek Police. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Halkidiki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Catherine Iglezi to the Minister for Rural Development and Food regarding the support of producers of green olives from the Prefecture of Halkidiki. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 64/10-10-2016 of the Greek Parliamentary I Athens, Mr.Kissos Kikilias, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the new complaints by the former Secretary-General of the First Representation, Mr. Odysseus Voudouris, calling for immediate answers. 3. The Question No 60/10-10-2016 by Evia MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Michou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the conduct of a thorough inquiry into the extensive fires in Chios, Evia and Thassos. 4. The question by No 68/10-10-2016 by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdus to the Minister of National Defence, concerning the decommissioning of the Greek Defence Systems. 5. The question by number 83/11-10-2016 of the F' Vice President of the Parliament and MP Laris of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Ministers for Rural Development and Food and Finance, on compensation for the damage caused by the destruction of olive trees in the fire in Larissa Prefecture. 6. The 81/11-10-2016 topical question of Attica of the Independent Greeks Mr. Konstantinos Katsikis to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, on the addition and mobilisation of the sign language to the recruitment via ASP. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question by No 69/10-10-2016 of the Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism about the proposal - "resurrection" for red loans. 8. The 30/4-10-2016 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Irene (Nina) Kasimatis to the Minister of Environment and Energy regarding the suspension of the operation of the sales store PPC Salamis from 1-10-2016. 9. The Question No 21/3-10-2016 by MP Achaias of the River Mr. Jason Fotidas to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism on the reintroduction of the single price of books. 10. The Question No 344-10-2016 by MP Florina of New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Antoniadis to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the progress of the work of remote heating Florina. 11. The 23/3-10-2016 topical question by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, regarding the national moderation energy, the absence of a Greek flag at a meeting of the Prime Minister with the President of Turkey. 12. The 26/3-10-2016 topical question by the Independent MEP Lakonias Leonida Gregorakos to the Minister of Health on the procedure for selecting directors to the National Health System (NSS).
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The sixth question under number 47/6-10-2016, first-round question from the Z Vice-President of the Parliament and MP from Athens, Potamios Spyridon Lykoudi, to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the design for the protection of the public space in the center of Athens, since the cases of vandalism continue, will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister responsible, Mr. Toska. Furthermore, the seventh question under number 465/10-2016 of the First Stewart of Athens, Mr.Georges - Dimitrios Karras, Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, concerning the need to redesign the routes of “TRAINOSE” to cover the Peloponnese, will not be discussed, because Mrs Chrysovelonis is abroad. The following topical questions will not be discussed and redefined for discussion: The fifth, with number 56/10-10-2016, is a timely question for the first cycle of the Parliamentary Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, about the lack of teaching staff at the Athens TEI, due to the unsuccessful obligations of the Deputy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr. Anagnostopoulou. Likewise, the fourth question under number 55/10-10-2016 by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the problem of the Greek Open University. Also, the first question under number 54/10-10-2016 of the Second Cycle of Members of the Radical Left Coalition, Antonio Balomenakis, to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, concerning the introduction of a framework to deal with the uncontrolled expansion of the phenomenon of "all inclusive" to tourism, will not be discussed due to the unreserved obligations of the Deputy Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism Mr. Kountoura. The second question under number 50/6-10-2016 of the New Democracy MP, Ioannis Kefaloyannis, with regard to the legal status of a Cypriot company participating in its blog "AGE S.A.", will not be discussed due to the unsettled obligations of the Minister of State, Mr. Papa. Also, the question under number 45/5-10-10-2016 of a topical question from the National Rehabilitation Centre of the Association of Central Banks Mr.Theodoras Megalokomou to the Minister of Health, on the serious shortages of staff and funding at the National Rehabilitation Centre, will not be discussed due to a workload of the Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Polakis. Finally, there will be no debate on the eighth under number 11/3-10-2016 question of the second question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr.Georgios Arvanitides to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism concerning the extension of the project "Support for SMEs active in the manufacturing, tourism, trade and services sectors", due to the Minister's impediment. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-one students and students and two educational attendants from the 8th Old Faliro Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The fifth question will be discussed under number 57/10-10-2016 with regard to the termination of an unjustified "host" question by the workers of the Municipality of Heraklion, who were found successful by SAP competitions. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the insecurity and hostage regime has been in place for seven years for hundreds of workers in the local government agencies, who were found successful by means of ADP competitions in 2009 and from now on. The final tables for PPC and HS of this tendering procedure were published on 27 October 2011, i.e. they were delayed for two whole years. In these tables, however, several employees, who were in the provisional tables, had not been included. The table, of course, was completed with the participants of the competition. The reasons were different and different for everyone. However, as a result of the Memorandum of Understanding No 4093/2012, none of these recruitments became operational, i.e. the completion of their appointment was frozen. Meanwhile, many municipal authorities had moved on to the recruitment of workers, from the Temporary Schedules of the AACC, to work on private law to cover, it makes sense, the increased needs of services and citizens who are still growing today by the tragic lack of staff. Such cases are the thirty-five employees of the Municipality of Heraklion from the provisional tables of successors, of which sixteen are in the cleaning service. They have been working since 2009 with a Mayor's decision, a decision that is legally binding on Law 3584/2007. In the meantime, in order to protect the employees, they had appealed in court and in the final judgment of the Monomelethian Court of Heraklion in 2013, the municipality had to hire them temporarily until 13 December 2016, following the recruitment of the successors of the final table. Now, of course, it is time to ban recruitment, i.e. the success of the final tables, where on the basis of the n. Recruitment is authorised after 31 December 2016. However, this automatically means the dismissal of the sixteen who have been working without any interruption since 2010, and of course the municipalities will also be damaged. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Allow me a little more, Mr President. These workers, however, after seven years of hard work have acquired rights, have planned their lives in such a way that there is a risk that they will be in front of dismissal. Of course, this situation is maintained over time by all governments, and today it is maintained with this government. It's a loose end holding them in a hostage. At a time when IDU services have been declining by staff, while the needs are increasing, the only solution is to lift the ban on the recruitment of ID and OSH categories, to speed up the recruitment of all the successors of the OSCE tender of all categories, to permanentise all employees who have been recruited and working with the provisional tables, and, of course, also of the eight-month contractors - the issue that has already been discussed and are undergoing - and, of course, necessary for the operation of cleaning services.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u5	Please complete. You've got a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u6	Finally, I would like to remind you that in April 2015, we tabled an amendment to the draft law on 'democracy of the fight against bureaucracy, e-government of rehabilitation and other provisions', where we were then calling for this paradoxical phenomenon to be dealt with, workers who were included in the provisional lists of municipality no longer fully guaranteed labour rights. I'll testify to her for the Minutes, too. Then you had not accepted it, you rejected it in a bill to restore fairness. So we are coming back today, and we ask you what action the Ministry will take immediately, you, in order to perpetuate these workers and end their long-standing unjustified hostage and stop any dismissal of the workers with temporary ADP tables in the Municipality of Heraklion and the other municipalities. It is also important, however, that you tell us in time, when you identify the ban on recruitment. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, too. The Deputy Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Christoforos Vernardakis, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. These are two - three issues which we need to distinguish. The first is that, in fact, we have final SAC tables since 2008-2009, which were frozen. These tables have already been frozen, their recruitment has been completed, that is, their distribution by us and they are in the process of incubating gradually since the beginning of 2016 - on self-government I am talking about - about the IPs and TEs and they are in the process. For the ICU now we have ordered to be allocated, to proceed, it simply wants to check with the municipalities, because here too the OTAs are involved, with regard to some of the people who had established the right to recruitment, through APA, but later they were hired with the possibility of rewarding recruitment by the municipalities. So we need to get this straight. This distribution will be given in the next few days, and the goal is, of course, that these people be in their services from 1-1-2017. So the whole loose end of 2008, with the successors and the successors of the freezers, in fact, has now been completed. Now what's going on. We have this problem that you quite rightly said that there were the provisional tables, with which officials were hired under a fixed-term contract, which if it were renewed, but which fell on the job banning recruitment, and now what is going on? Now, with the distribution given, there is the paradox that is now going with the final table, probably, to take the place of the worker who was with the provisional table. This is a serious issue, which has arisen now in the last few days, because new recruitments have now begun and come. It is not only the thirty-five of the Municipality of Heraklion, it is estimated about a hundred people across Greece and about fifteen to twenty municipalities and in less than two months we have committed ourselves to giving a solution to these people, because a stable and lasting working treaty has been created for many years. It is at the risk of changing, not on their own responsibility - this is the main issue of not having their own responsibility - so we have to see a way of legislating, so that those who had entered the provisional tables and worked for a long time, can have an indefinite contract or something. This is in the process of legal processing and in a few days' time we will be able to testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor again for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u10	Minister, in any case, for the final tables on the basis of what you said, we expect to see how this story will develop. But they want more clarification and clarification than you said, in relation to the workers who were in the provisional tables, precisely because these people have been working for seven years and the only solution for them is the permanentisation of all these categories of workers. I told you that we had tabled an amendment in 2015, which you had not accepted. This amendment comes up to timeliness and we will re-submit it. In fact, let me read this amendment, which I think covers these workers. You could, if you would like, move in this direction, since it is also mature that the successors of the regular selection procedures of the AACC, who have been included in provisional lists of nominated municipalities published since 1 January 2009 and working in the OTAs, are appointed to the bodies they have been serving up to now. That is the amendment we have tabled and we ask you to accept it. We reserve to redeem it. The opportunity is now to tell us, if you agree, and if you accept it, when we bring it to any of the bills in the next few days. From there on, I think that the situation in municipal cleanliness services is tragic both in infrastructure and with the residual operation of trains in relation to municipal fees and additional carpets and the risk of "working" of cleaning and privatising them is visible. It is therefore very important that labour issues be resolved immediately. We are now talking about the fact that there are five workers' speeds in the municipalities. They're IDUs, they're permanent, they're octamenites, unobstructed, bimenis, etc. They're subordinated while the work is intensified. We also have deaths in Athens and Heraklion Crete as a result of this intensification. So the issue here is not deferred or allowed to play on the part of the government, because you have seen what is happening with the eight-month-olds. For so long, the amendment has been tabled, you take it back, you bring it back, and you are actually referring this whole issue back to the backwards of the municipalities, namely the municipalities, to undertake to pay the workers, and on this issue of the eight-month-olds, we have tabled an amendment which we say should automatically extend until the end of '17' and become an indefinite one, to stop the process of possible privatisation. So we urge you to resolve these things immediately, and much more we are also calling on the workers, telling them that they must be alert, not rest and claim the right to work, because the right to work means permanent and stable work with full employment and insurance rights. Give the municipalities money, so that the cleaning services and all the other services can meet, so that they can meet the increased needs of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much. The Minister has the floor for three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. First let's agree on something. There is no amendment that goes and comes. After all, we had extended these eight-month contracts by the end of 1916, and that is what we will do by the end of 17. However, there are several issues which concern legal details and in a few days' time, I think on Monday or Tuesday, the Ministry of Education's research bill will have been a final solution to this issue. On the subject you raise, there is a more general issue. The general issue in the municipalities is that, in fact, the administration of the municipalities would say that it is, without misunderstanding, a "black box" of the administration. Why? Because it has too many employment relationships. This needs a comprehensive remodelling of the whole landscape. In any case, this is a big debate. This process must be initiated by the state. That's what we're gonna do. Apparently, however, this also wants the co-operation of the municipalities, who often hide or invoke the famous selfishness with regard to a number of their functions. So here we have an issue that we need to see in total. What you are saying about this question is that the Ministry's will is to move about in the direction that you have put forward. This requires a legislative process, as I have heard it, precisely because we need to see what positions they will take, whether they go to personalities or if they go to new empty organic posts and, of course, what a contract of employment they will go to. So if this amendment, as you have it, we can look at it and it is a matter of legal treatment, I think that for these people who, in fact, are at risk, while establishing the right to full and lasting employment in the previous years, we will obviously have to see how they will continue to work, because whatever changes are made, they are not being made at their expense. This is the basic principle of the equitableness and transparency of administration, so we are going to move in that direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u13	Thank you. The second question will be discussed under number 49/6-10-2016, first question by Evia MP, New Democracy Symeon Kedicoglou, to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the unanswered questions about the tragedy in Aegina. The Minister will answer Mr. Dritsas. Please, Mr. Kedicoglou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. In a tragedy like the one in Aegina debt of a favoured state, it is the verification of the conditions, the identification of those responsible, the return of responsibility. State debt to the victims and their relatives is the truth. The House should not normally deal with this matter. But since two months after the truth, instead of being lit up, it's abstract, it's our duty to ask for answers. I would like, Minister, to ensure that there is no more continuity in this policy-making candy. Here we want to see how the port and its natural and political leadership worked. Questions are growing and this is what your own statements and answers to the House are helping. What should the Port House have done in accordance with the existing provisions? The port in such cases must intervene immediately to rescue and coordinate operations. He also has a debt for the immediate immobilisation of the ship that became an instrument of crime, for the holding of the pilot and the identification of the witnesses. The relevant memorials and circulars clearly state that the Chief and the leadership of the port go to the coordination centre. The district chief's on his way. Aerial means are available to control the area and identify survivors. Every floating middle of the port is rushing and private floating means can be rushed with a port up. In other words, the memoranda of actions of the enclosure and the local port office must be applied faithfully. What happened to all this? Nothing. The only air means that hastened - from what we learn - was the helicopter that brought you there, Minister, with your wife. Would it really not be more useful for the helicopter to take part in the investigations or directly carry wounded to the hospital? The first inland waterway in the region reached one and a half hours after the criminal energy. Don't tell us again, it's about twenty minutes later, unless the port has stealth ships that no one sees. There's evidence from the boatmen. If you want to insist, bring us the ship's log. No porter took part in the rescue just the local boatmen. The first porters who arrived in Perdian with land were sitting in the port and watched unannouncedly the ship that became a crime instrument, the pilot fleeing and the passengers of DUEDE disembarking next to them and fleeing unannounced, as if some invisible hand were holding them away. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like a little more time, because we have tabled too many questions. We haven't got any answers. According to a witness, the first porter to arrive at the place of the tragedy went with a lancah, went after everything was over, just to see where the debris are. Also, the 'DUEDE', that is, the vessel that became an instrument of crime, had to be towed by a ship of the Port Body, or at least by a dock and designated guard officer and the objects recorded. None of this happened. It's even worse than that in the pre-interrogation. The assailant was handed over three hours after where and even as he wanted in the area of responsibility of the Greek Police. The two who are alleged to be on board - because we are now in doubt about everything - appeared many hours later, while the third passenger has yet to testify, because he says he has a problem, although he is giving inconceivable interviews. Although the survivors had said of a young couple who were on 'DUEDE', no relevant question was asked to the operator or also to the persons who were alleged to be on board. There was no care to check fingerprints or genetic material. There's no lifting of the phone secret. The report to the prosecutor's office became a conscious attempt...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u15	Please, Mr. Kegeroglu, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u16	Please, Mr President, a little time. People have died. No answers. Let me formulate the questions. There are too many of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u17	This question has been answered several times by Mr Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Dritsa's answer next time was that twenty minutes later he went a port ship on the ground, which is not the case. Well, we want the truth. In the port's report to the prosecutor, a conscious attempt was made to degrade a felony to a flood. For example, there was no mention of abandoning victims, no charge of the one who fused the alleged criminal, or of smuggling the passengers, that is, trying to silence a crime. The responsibilities are very serious. We're coming to your role, Minister. Why did you even rush to the port office first? Then you went. The natural thing is to go where the victims are. Why did you make statements about the defendant? Why did you come to answer the previous question that there are no omissions of the Port House in the preliminary investigation? Now comes, Minister, the trick from the DNA results and it turns out that there is no genetic material of the person alleged to be a perpetrator.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Kedicoglou, there goes the question in five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u20	I'd like a minute. There are prospects - and this is unfortunate - for categories of natural automobile in breach of duty for porters who did not do their job but also moral automobile. Because it is suddenly excluded that the porters who have made their duty right for years to suddenly forget how they should do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u21	The Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy will answer Mr. Dritsas. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, I have come to answer this question once again with the awareness that we have a responsibility to the people who have been lost and to the relatives who are mourning victims. That's why it takes low tone, wiseness, seriousness. I'm dealing with a question that takes me out of my clothes. You have no right, Mr Kedicoglou, to claim political goodwill against the dead.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u23	Not that candy anymore. Answer the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u24	No, Mr. Kedicoglou. You made a narrative arbitrary made of your own with journalistic or other evidence allegedly valid. In fact, you said, I went with my wife with a helicopter, and all she did was take me out when this helicopter, like the General Staff from the first moment she participated in the rescue investigation. And that's all it takes. I wonder if you'd like to talk at that level if some people are trying to acquit some people out. I wonder, with all this orchid, if there's such a feasibility for innocent people to come out. Did I lead to the indictment of people? Did I guard a defendant? Isn't there justice in this process? Isn't there an interrogator? There's no prosecutor? Isn't all the preliminary interrogation and interrogation being supervised by the D.A.? I would be happy to answer any questions. I did it in Mr Katsafandou's question. I am preparing meticulously - and that is why I am stalling - the answer to three questions that you have tabled. Three questions identical. You even ask the first and why the ship operator got a license. You ask me when he took it in 2014. I have absolutely no reason, neither I, nor the Government, nor the Port House, to cover anyone, to hide anything, to do anything. But understand it. You cannot ask the Minister to be an interrogator and prosecutor and there is an ongoing investigation at the moment, which will answer all the questions. It is right that the political appeal that represents the relatives of the victims puts questions to justice. He's making requests. And these justice, the investigation procedure, of course, will answer them. In this connection, too, a request has also been made to the Port Authority by the civil lawsuits. It was forwarded by the Port Corps Headquarters to the prosecutor - this request - and instructions were requested from the prosecutor. Are we going to conduct a parallel administrative investigation? Of course, we'll do it when we have to, when we have to, when we have to, when we have to. The rest of you cultivate for what? Do you trust in the interrogation process? If you don't have one, say it open. As far as the detailed answers are concerned, I will return to my remarks, because I did not say whether there are or are not responsibilities. If there are responsibilities, they will be sought. But not because journalistic or political purposes highlight them, but because they will actually arise. So, in this direction, I have to say'serve' and with certainty that the latest exposure of DNA findings proves one or the other. Read. I took a flashlight to read it. I don't have the documents of the case and I don't have the right to have them. But in the press, there are. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] And here, in the DNA report I saw the fourth and fifth paragraphs, in which, by addressing the Authorities, they are told how to record the DNA from persons who may be involved, to identify and compare them. How is the conclusion to be reached before this procedure is completed? I can't go to such a conclusion. And in any case how is the Minister confirmed or disproved? Where and where? Does the Minister exercise the criminal prosecution? Has the Minister ordered the custody? Well, you'll get the answers to the second floor, as Mr Katsafadas took, in detail, according to the Port Authority's incident log, the only document I can - I don't know if it's in the case file or not - to make public use, because it's a public document. Everything else is in the case. Don't you know that? You don't know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u25	Minister, you have your second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u26	What exactly are you asking for, and what kind of climate do you cultivate? What purposes do you finally serve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Kedicoglou, please time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u28	Minister, you didn't answer anything. Is that right? You didn't answer anything!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u29	All of it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u30	Nothing! You're trying to shoot.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u31	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u32	Well, who's trying to acquit, Minister, in this case, is seen from the day of the accident. Where did the Minister hear about going over there and making statements about the perpetrator's abilities?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u33	Really? You bathe! You've been doing a bathtub.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u34	Minister, I'd be at my ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u35	You'd be in Mykonos! I can't help but wonder what's going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u36	And the head of the port had to be at the Business Center. And if the preliminary investigation has so many gaps while you were at the Port Authority, reasonable questions arise.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Kedicoglou, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u38	And you didn't tell me why no porter went on the spot? Why would they sit down at the port and look unreasonably?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u39	Mr. Kedicoglou, calm down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u40	Please, Mr. President. Over here, now, last time, the Minister said that twenty minutes later it was a floating port.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u41	It's a tombble.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u42	What drama, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u43	Please, Mr. Kedicoglou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u44	What about the way the port operates? For the first time, there are possible charges...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Kedicoglou...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u46	You're a tombbler!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u47	...for physical automobile and moral automobile in breach of duty. Are you proud of this? Honestly! I want to know why, for the first time, the port didn't do its job properly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u48	Who made that conclusion?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u49	Who took it off? Everyone says so. Haven't a porter gone to the scene of the accident? Sitting in the harbor and looking, instead of jumping on the first boat in front of taking part in the rescue? No porter took part in the rescue! How is that possible? And one last thing: This ship, the DUENDE, why did you leave it out there, too, in the area of people involved in the whole case? Do whatever they want? Any expert will now be questionable.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u50	Please, take it easy. Mr Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u51	You're constantly cultivating false impressions. Well, as I responded to Mr Katsafados, I went - first of all - to Aegina because that's what I had to do. It's over! That's what every minister had to do. I was on vacation, and I automatically left in the shortest possible time. Just to get there, not to participate in the investigation procedure. I didn't care at all. The only order I gave was 'all aspects to be investigated'. No participation! I participated in the support of the representatives of the Port Corps in the rescue investigation, the supervision...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u52	It was done now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u53	Don't interrupt, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u54	I can't...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u55	Can't you? You can do it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u56	I can't lie anymore, Mr. Dritsa. I can't do it anymore!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u57	Please, Mr. Kedicoglou, don't interrupt. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u58	Mr. Kedicoglou, you have no argument...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u59	Anyone? That's all I gave you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u60	Watch out. You are insulting and wondering how you insult the Port Body like this. How do you insult it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u61	You touched it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u62	How do you insult it? Well, I'm on my way. I told Mr Katsafados that at 12.48 the Port Authority was informed of the first information about the incident.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u63	12:30.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u64	At 12.48 ́, it's the Port Authority's incident log. Then all the mobilization took place. I will not go into the details, I will describe them in my reply in detail. At 12.55, seven minutes later, he leaves the first car for Perdika with ports where the remains of the dead or the wounded and the shipwrecks began to come and deal with their collection and settlement. The Port Authority was mobilized in the health center, in the hospital of Aegina, to doctors for all this. At 12.56' the escapade process of the vessel '334', which is available to the Port House in Aegina, begins. At 13:15, the ports in Perdica arrive in the vehicle. One of them boards a private ship and arrives at the scene of the incident. He doesn't see anyone on board there, the passengers had already left. Approximately 13.30' This ship of the Port Corps, which arrives there from the port of Aegina, is ordered to drive the ship, which was already operating from another vessel and then from a tug to the port of Aegina under the supervision and guarding of the port of Aegina, and then again escorted 334 of the ship of the Port House and the surveillance of the port is transferred to a carnival, as provided for by the regulations because it was running water and there was a risk that it would sink, and then you would blame us for not taking care of and lost the evidence, that is to say, lifting up with the supervision of the Port Body, guarded by the Port Authority, all of its police services, ELYDNA, are coming along with all the relevant services, recording, taking the prints, taking control, i.e. all the regulations for the rescue of the data. These are recorded and of course most of them may be in the case file and are recorded in the logbook of the Port Authority of Aegina and the Business Center. Where do you get that evidence from? Who do you have that unscrupulous, distorting information to you? What 'practical' history do you finally serve to play games on such a serious issue? Is it getting out of your clothes or isn't it? From this point of view, and what do you have to blame us for? Why would the Government or the Port Corps have reason to cover? The ones published, that was me on board? Is that what you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u65	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u66	Or Mr. Stathakis or Mr. Flabourris? Is that what you mean? Do you incorporate them into your logic?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u67	Mr. Drizza, I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u68	What exactly do you want to say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u69	Answer my questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u70	And at the same time from 13:30...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u71	And the port office badge was at 12:30 and not at 12:48 that you're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u72	Now, where are you from?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u73	There's paperwork.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u74	Where do you get the papers from? Check it out!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u75	I'll testify!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u76	Check it out!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u77	You know the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u78	I shall conclude, Mr President. There was a great deal of mobilisation - just as you said - by the Chief of the Port Authority. And from an hour and a half, and then a very important number of ships arrived, the offshore ship, which took on a role in the rescue process. And only by the evidence that the last of the dead - who is a foreign national - was recovered from the water at 13.20, do you understand what the capital of the port was? We didn't know and didn't know the Port for quite a while after how many still dead or missing are. This lasted for hours and was a central issue, before anything but anything else. Of course the island was working. The ships on the line were on their way, the porters have multiple operations. Everyone joined the process, twenty-five people throughout Aegina. If gaps are found in the preliminary investigation procedure, be sure that there will be control and supervision and everything. There's no one to hide anything. But if really blanks are found, not made.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u79	I'll testify the signal within an hour.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Minister. The Member, Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis, is seeking permission from a short-day absence abroad in order to attend an international conference of the Israel Allies Foundation from 19 October to 21 October 2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u81	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Parliamentarian Maria Antonio seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad in order to attend an international conference of the ‘Israel Allies Foundation’ from 19 October to 21 October 2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u82	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Series is the third with number 48/6-10-2016 top-stage question of the first Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the future of the Planning Service. You have the floor, Mr. Kouzeli.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u83	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the pilot service offers the maximum security for Greek ports despite constant monumental policies. The operation of the Pilot Office shall be governed by Law 3142/1955 and shall not be charged to the State budget. After the sale of the PPA, there are reasonable doubts as to the future of the Pilot Agency. To be a little clearer, there are too many complaints that some are trying to set up a private navigating service through 'COSCO'. And it strengthens these considerations in Article 11.5 in the PPA Sales Convention, which actually says that if the public body cannot fulfil its obligations, then PPA, that is to say, 'COSCO', can be consulted with the Ministry to find a better solution for the future or the Navigation Agency - but I also ask the question - or even VTS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u84	Thank you. The Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy Mr. Theodores Dritsas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u85	Indeed, the pilot service is an extremely important service and it is a historic one. It was established by Law 3142/1955, which is a service of about fifty years, lasting supply at the main ports of the country. Its services are of crucial importance both for ships and ports. From this point of view, it is right to point out that its sustainability is a crucial issue. Today the pilot service throughout the country has thirteen organized pilot stations, which are few, needs to be increased. They are doing the most important work of the Office, namely navigating ships at the time of entering and leaving the port. What's happened? There is no indication of a pitiful future of the Navigation Service, not only that in recent years it has actually been subordinated and has not been strengthened as it should. Why? Because while it had an organic composition of two and a half persons, with its 103/2014, of the previous government, i.e., all the organic positions of the naval staff serving at the Pilot Agency - pilots, governors, drivers, plumbers - decreased from two to two in a hundred ten for Greece. This is indeed a serious deterioration, which we are trying to cure, despite the difficulties that exist. At the same time, the navigators - the vessels - have been left for many years without maintenance and of course the fleet is old. In this respect, we have initiated procedures to upgrade the Shipbuilding Service, as the Ministry is obliged to do, since Article 2 of Law 3142/1955, as mentioned in Law 1879/1990, is to be administered by the Minister for Trade Shipping and the designated bodies of the Ministry's central office, as defined each time, etc. It is therefore a central responsibility, not only of the Ministry but also of the Minister for Planning and we have taken it in this direction. In my speech, I will describe the steps already taken to strengthen the pilot service and how much remains to be done and are on the way. Of course, I will also comment on what you said about the recent concessions to the Piraeus Port Authority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u86	Mr Kouzeli, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u87	Thank you very much, Mr President. The first point we would like to highlight is the question of recruitment, which is eight months old. There you have to move, so there are permanent positions. The Navigation Agency, like cavodence, cannot operate with eight months. The second point we want to raise, for which there is a solution, is a letter from the Shipowners' Union on 28-04-2015, which had raised to you some questions about the pilots' diplomas of the naval service, etc. I believe you are aware of it. There again is a question of what is going on in Europe. We have to look at this at a pan-European level. The third issue - to open up a little bit - concerns the capital of the Pilot Agency, 8% of which is held and goes to the state budget, for which SYRIZA had made an election commitment to it, because it was a Memorandum of Understanding at the time of the New Democracy. I close by saying that these concerns were not just ours. They were also yours, after having tabled a question on 10-12/2012 on this matter, to privatise the Navigation Agency. That is why, but also because too many people have started to ask what is going to happen, and because we are seeing a strong mobility at the moment in the port, there is this concern and that is why this question is currently being discussed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u89	Indeed, efforts to privatise the Pilot Agency have been made in the past and have also been addressed by us in the previous period from the position of counterpopulation and by workers and other advances and initiatives in the port area. The pilot service is a public service and will remain a public service. What have we done? The opinion of the Planning Agency Council on increasing the number of organic posts was adopted. This is a very important move. As you know, increasing the number of organic positions is a very difficult issue, subject to the limitations that exist at the present time. And yet, we are going through this for all branches and for the country's navigating stations. We believe that this process will soon be completed, so the competitive processes will begin after a few months. The largest arithmetic increase - we are talking about increasing organic positions, stable positions - will be at the Piraeus pilot station, which shows statistically the greatest weight. I told you how organic positions were reduced, unauthorized and recklessly, the previous period with the Presidential Decree of 2014. At the same time, for the few empty organic positions that exist, it has already been approved and at the final stage is the process to fill three empty organic seating positions of permanent staff, a position of the navigable navigator industry and a position of the brigade industry at the Piraeus pilot station, as well as a position of the navigator industry in Thessaloniki. These are in progress, they are completed in the next period, as well as a competitive process for filling three empty organic pilot sites in the navigating and navigating industry in Thessaloniki, Kavala and Syros navigating for publication of the relevant notice. It is eight years now that no permanent staff have been recruited at the Navigation Agency and it is now being deployed. This, even though it is a small number and will follow greater by increasing organic positions, is a very important step. At the same time, procedures are constantly under way for the recruitment of temporary seafarers, by industry and specialisation. The details don't matter. It is also very important that administrative procedures have been launched to modernise the fleet of waterways by building seven new vessels. The relevant opinion on the construction of navigators was approved by the Secretary-General of Ports and the competitive procedures for the supply of seven new navigators start before the end of the year. Also, in order to modernise the existing fleet and to cope with the safety needs, the old equipment is replaced. Apart from building the vessels I have mentioned, a procedure has already been initiated to replace and set up six new machines for existing navigators, a budget of EUR 230 000. At the same time, an initiative for an integrated navigation information system, which is part of the Competitiveness, Entrepreneurship and Innovation Operational Programme, has been developed from the Ministry’s final NRP structure. As you can see, these actions, which have been taken for many years and are now being done with our own government, do not indicate a course of privatisation. Apparently, something else they say. Indeed, in the concession contract, the Greek State has undertaken several obligations against the PPA, which are very compatible with the proper and orderly operation of each port. They're public interest obligations. One of them is the proper operation of the Navigation Service. And there is, in fact, a clause that if the Piraeus Port Authority, under the new administration, with the ‘COSCO’, with the majority of the shares in a private company now, points out that not all the conditions are met in order to provide the naval services adequately, it will open a dialogue with the Ministry to find the best possible solutions. Now, if it turns out that this is the way to privatization, here we are, here you are, here we all are, to see and deal with it. However, the concession clause itself does not say that. What he says, indeed, is, when the Greek state undertakes an obligation in a port, it must also observe it. That is what really needs to be done. That is why I have no problem with this regulation. It is right to regulate in the concession contract and the Greek State must respond, not to 'COSCO' or to the Piraeus Port Agency, but to the shipping itself and the proper functioning of the port. Indeed, it has responded so far, but for many and various reasons, which I have described, which have degraded the pilot service, this historic service, there have been gaps in the last year, much more when the needs are growing. Catalonia doesn't have a navigating station. Is that possible? Other parts of the country don't have one. This all requires a complete reorganization. So the Ministry and the Minister are moving in this direction, which I have the direct responsibility under the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, too. The first question will be discussed under number 53/10-10-2016 of the First Cycle of the Parliamentary Corfu Coalition of the Radical Left, Mr. Fotinis Vakis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the concession to the Municipality of Corfu of the building housed by the First Municipal Children's Station. The Minister will answer Mr. Apostleu. Mrs Vaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I am going to address a very specific issue, which needs immediate settlement, as it has both social and bureaucratic implications. It is the housing scheme of the 2nd Municipal Children's Station of Corfu. The property of the Centre "Dimitra" Corfu, formerly the Centre for Agricultural Education, consists of a plot of four thousand and thirty square meters total area, including a building of about sixty-eight square meters, the ownership of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. This building is used by the Hellenic Agricultural Organization "DIMITRA" for its educational needs. In part of an area of ninety-eight square meters of this building, it has been housed and operated since 1992, after two years of concession, the 2nd Primary Children's Station of Corfu. This building has never been used as a Center for Agricultural Education or a "DIMTRA" Centre. This is why it has been possible to use it as a primary school and after its two-year concession in 1992. However, it has been this initial arrangement for two years, the issue of concession is pending. This inadequacy in the future can be a major obstacle to the process of issuing a licence for the child station. In August 2014, he was sent to the Greek Agricultural Organisation “DIMITRA” a request by the President of the Social Protection and Educational Municipality of Corfu for the concession of the building to the same organisation, whose responsibilities include the operation of municipal children's stations. The request was sent in December 2014 to the Ministry of Rural Development, together with topographical charts, in order to be granted for a maximum of twenty-five years, with an extension of 10 years. The then leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development did not respond to the demand from the Social Protection and Education Agency of the Municipality of Corfu. This year, on 29 February 2016, the Board of Directors of the Social Protection and Education of the Municipality of Corfu decided unanimously to ask the Ministry of Rural Development and Food to grant it the area building of ninety-eight square meters, which is housed by the First Municipal Children's Station. In view of the above, I would like to ask you: what action do you intend to take to allow the building in which the IV Municipal Children's Station of Corfu is housed for a maximum of twenty-five years, with the possibility of an extension of up to ten years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u92	Thank you. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. As you well know, my dear colleague, in the priorities of the Government and the Ministry of Rural Development, it is to be close to the problems of local societies and, of course, to demonstrate that the social person becomes essential to serve. In this context, therefore, this could not be taken into account in the permanent and truly chronic demand of the Municipality of Corfu for the concession of the use of part of the facilities of ELGO "Dimitra" for the accommodation of the 4th Child Station. There was a delay, because right now we are in a process of recording. Already, however, ELGO "Dimitra" and the Ministry's Property Management Directorate have evaluated the request positively. It remains my signature, which will be positive and immediate, for the very simple reason that this concession serves what I mentioned at the outset. But I would like to make one thing clear: all concessions relating to the use of these real estates will be monitored if they are used under the terms of the concession. So, on the occasion of your question, let me refer to a new body which we have set up, a new legal person in the Ministry of Rural Development, the Immovable Property Management Agency, known as the IDIAGE, which is, of course, under the control of the public, but which will use both properties and rural land, owned by the Ministry of Rural Development to promote rural activity and, of course, to support social needs in the province. At this time, we are in cooperation, both with the Agency and with the relevant management, and we record the properties of the Ministry and especially the rural land. In my denture I will tell you more about this part.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u94	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being informed about the history of the building and how the Greek Parliament organises, forty-nine students and students and three teachers attending the 6th High School of Heidari. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Vaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much for your reply and the willingness to resolve this long-standing issue immediately. The 4th Children's Municipal Station of Corfu, which hosts fifty toddlers per school year, on the basis of social and economic criteria, would really be faced with a major problem in the process of issuing, establishing and operating it in the future. Article 43 of Law No.4369/2016 on the National Register of Officials of Public Administration has been amended to extend the authorisation of children and nurseries operating as legal persons governed by public law of the municipalities or as a service until 31 December 2016. This extension was granted on the basis that the place of authorisation for the establishment and operation of the legal person governed by public law or an internal agency of the municipality. At the end of the extension, however, on December 31, 2016, the 4th Municipal Station of Corfu would probably be invited to participate in a licensing process, without any proof of having at its disposal the building in which it is housed. The leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development in 2014 on the government of Samara showed a complete reluctance to resolve the issue of the concession of the building, as well as the additional problems that arise. Today, therefore, the concession of the building, which has been housed by the 4th Children's Station for twenty-five years, with the possibility of extending for 10 years by the Ministry of Rural Development and Food to the Social Protection and Education Organization of the Municipality of Corfu, demonstrates once again the social sensitivity that characterises the present government, but also its commitment to the resolution of practices and important issues relating to the daily life of the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Vaki. Please, Mr Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u97	One of the main objectives of our Ministry is the protection of public property, as well as its better exploitation, always through transparent procedures and for the benefit of Greek farmers and local communities. One million eight hundred thousand acres of agricultural land and hundreds of buildings have already been recorded throughout the country. We are not yet aware of the extent of the squatters, because the treasury process has not been completed. That is why we are rapidly moving forward in procedures for the recovery of public property, which in previous years has been devoid of its own grace - we are literally talking about EUR 150 to EUR 170 the acre - to individuals for land use that does not promote the development of rural space and without complying with the legal provisions and procedures. They are already in my office for the signature of seventeen decisions on the withdrawal of concessions for areas granted - I repeat - by ownership from 2003 to 2008, in particular by the Ministerial Decisions. All seventeen concessiond areas, from five to fifty acres, were not given for their use for agricultural purposes, but for the establishment - here is the - hotel unit, with the sole statement of the "fourths" interested parties that they would build up guesthouses and hotels, without any other guarantee, such as the 1929 Act - on whose request the concession was granted - provided. The fact is that none of these seventeen cases have been awarded, although they have taken place between eight and thirteen years since the year of the concession. It also causes unfairness because the former Ministry's leadership did not go ahead in previous years to withdraw the concession decisions as long as the five-year period had already elapsed for the purpose of the concession. Of the seventeen concessions referred to above, which I shall sign directly, twelve relate to the Drama Prefecture, a total of seventy-seven acres, two concerning Xanthi, a total of seventy acres, one concerning Serres, four and a half acres, one for Kastoria, four and a half acres, and one for Pellas, four acres. Directly and upon my mandate, the competent authority will check whether the purpose of the concession has been achieved on land which has been owned by ownership throughout the territory. Where cases similar to those referred to above are detected, they will be withdrawn immediately and the area management will be returned to the Ministry in order to exploit them as planned for rural development. Obviously, my dear colleague, we will have to come back to this particular issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u98	We move to the third with number 51/7-10-2016 topical question of the second question of the MP Pella of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Sahinides to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning the non-payment of compensation for the peach producers of the fourth part of the Pella Prefecture and the wider area from the Russian embargo. Please, Mr Shahinides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, recently the current Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr. Bolaris, had visited our region and, in particular, the Municipality of Skydras. During this visit, he was informed by the President of the Rizzos Agricultural Association, by Kelecidis Konstantinos, by the President of the Rizzos Agricultural Cooperative, Mr Fantidis Vassilis and by the President of the Rizzou Municipal District, Mr. Fantidis Charalambos, in relation to the problem arising from the non-payment of compensation for peach producers of the Rizzos municipality, but also some residents of the surrounding areas, due to a problem in the OPEKEPE software. However, once this problem has been resolved, as they have been informed, payment of compensation has been a matter of time. However, two years have passed, Minister, since the other producers have been paid, the peaches producers of this municipal district remain unpaid. The compensation to the peach producers at the time amounted to EUR 33 million via Piraeus Bank. The 31 million of them came down, while the 2 million were destined for any mistakes, such as that which would have occurred. It is noteworthy that, from what we have been denounced by the particular gentlemen, the Ministry responsible said that the compensation paid as a whole was illegal. As a result, questions arise as to why it has not been paid to producers in this municipality. You ask, Minister, firstly, why the legality has been exhausted only to them, secondly, whether you will intervene in order to restore the gross injustice which has been selectively committed to the peaches producers of the district of Rizzos and some of the inhabitants of the surrounding areas, as I said before, and thirdly, if there are, ultimately, the EUR 2 million available for such mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u100	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u101	The payments of EUR 33 million that you mention are not related to payments for the Russian embargo, which were paid throughout the country in 2015, EUR 11.8 million and in 2016, EUR 19.6 million from Community funds - I stress - in accordance with procedures laid down by both the relevant regulation of the European Union and national legislation. In the procedure followed for these payments - I repeat the payments relating to the embargo - the regional unit Pellas does not appear and the reason is that it did not have the conditions required, but because these producers had not secured in the ELGA their respective tree crops. That is what I have to say with regard to the payments of the Russian entrepreneur. There have been other payments and you may be a little confused with that. So what you're talking about is money credited to the farmers' accounts, mainly Pellas and Imathia, on Friday, January 23, 2015, Mr President, and paid until the morning, which was opened by the polls of the national elections of 25 January 2015. These are the payments. In fact, it is true that the then Minister for Rural Development, by means of a press release, has individually assumed responsibility for these payments, for which he has stated that they are legal, transparent and fully compatible with the applicable Community regulations, when he has not in fact complied with the essential requirement that the relevant dossier be drawn up by the services. In total, five thousand two hundred sixty-five producers, active in the cultivation of table peaches and nectarines, amounting to EUR 12.5 million, accounted for 38% of the total amount paid throughout Greece. Complaints and objections to payment were made by producers and were the ones who had declared in the request for single payment of young trees in order not to pay large amounts as premiums to ELGA These requests were rejected and the relevant file has been closed. I told you that these producers belong to this category. However, since this year, because they have also been organized, they have entered a specific food programme currently being implemented by the Ministry of Rural Development and will benefit from payments related to the Russian embargo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u102	Mr. Shahinides, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u103	Minister, the amount I mentioned to you, I haven't taken it out of my mind. I shall submit to the Minutes the letter I have received, which is also communicated to all the Members of the Prefecture of Pellas and to the Secretary-General himself, for the money I mentioned to you before. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Sahinides, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You said here, Minister, about all the peach producers in the prefecture of Pella. My question was specific. We are talking about the whole of the inhabitants of a particular village. I know you don't know this village, but I'm from the area. We're talking about a headland. Is it possible, on the basis of what you said, that they have declared small trees, that 80% of the producers in this village have made false statements? In fact, in their OPEKEPE they were asked to resubmit the E9 in order to compensate them. And I would remind you, Minister, that we had a debate in the Committee on Production and Trade, where you were hypothetically, if you remember - the subject of discussion was again the compensation for the Hatzigakis package - I had asked you hypothetically, what if the money for the Russian embargo was not legally given, as you said, because it was actually paid two days before the elections. The then Minister for Rural Development, Mr Karasmanis, while he was away from the Chamber, came running because the other Members of the New Democracy informed him, took the floor and said that they were legally given. In the letter I have submitted to you, the President of the Agricultural Cooperative and the President of the Agricultural Association and the President of the Rizzou Municipal Session said that your Ministry had unlawfully given this money, which in essence you also confirmed. What happens in this case? My question is specific: will certain residents be excluded or will all Pella's peach producers, as will Imathia? It's a very basic thing. However, whatever your decision may be, take the chance of farmers returning money paid to them. Also, Minister, I would like you to tell us whether there is a chance that producers will be paid for the last year's peaches. Because, if you remember well, at the end of the committee meeting, I asked you that, the information tells us that Italy, Spain and Portugal have already taken 30% of the embargo last year and your answer, if you remember well, was that you are fighting it. And I told you, because we're good at fighting, tell us to help you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u104	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u105	I repeat that the payments related to the Russian embargo, which are included in the relative situation I will be tabling, refer to too many regional units throughout Greece. There's not a single payment in Pellas prefecture. [[At this point, the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Evangelos Apostolos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned situation, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] With regard to these payments that you are discussing, I told you that they were payments made on the night of the 2015 election. In fact, these payments were so selective and outside the legislative framework, which brought in an intra-government civil. It is well known that the wrathful reaction of the then Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr. Koukoulopoulos, who denounced Mr. Karasmanis for populism, palatism and selective management of public money in his direction - listen to it! - rescuing his career policy, even to the point of accusing him of harming the citizens and the country with these actions. We weren't talking about that. It's Mr. Koukoulopoulos' statements. And if you specifically look at the agricultural blogs of that period, Agronews.gr, agrotipos.com, etc., you will see that all of this is mentioned in detail. So these specific payments have been a great scandal on the eve of elections, which, of course, also involves irregular, illegal procedures. Regarding the payment I told you, the file has been closed in this case. As far as farmers and producers are concerned, I have already told you that we have put them into a food programme and, of course, the ones from now on through the structure - because all these payments go through organised structures - will enjoy what farmers in the region get.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u106	Minister, you admitted a scandal. Has the file gone to the D.A.?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u107	We move on to the seventh under number 16/3-10-2016 topical question by MP Evros of the New Democracy. Anastasios DRC to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the support and development of the sorrow in Suffli. Here you go, Mr. Publics. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the Sufli region has become a centre for international silk production. The traditional art of the turtles of Prussa and the land of the Souflis turned their place into an infinite molecule on the one hand of the river and on the other, which was unfortunately included in the Turkish territory, which was also its real inland. The world reputation of Soufli's silk pre-war life was based on the art and the work of its inhabitants, but also on the ideal conditions of the region. Indeed, in an attempt to revive the region in the 1980s, experts from China on sero-food confirmed the suitability of soil, climate, and also the excellent nucleus of the central Evros. In fact, close to the "Prussa" variety trees were planted and trees of suitable Chinese variety, while new and more modern methods of sero-food mutated to some of the inhabitants. The European Union's subsidies were an important incentive to revive sero-food and to engage in more sero-producers, but their structure did not result as much as possible. Today there is still a sufficient number of professionals in Soufly, but they haven't found the right ground. It is a universal call for the redefinition of the way in which sero-food support is supported through the European Union's subsidies and other financial instruments so as to continue the sustainability of the current modalities, but also to place emphasis on the development dimension of this activity and to exploit its multiplier benefits. A key issue remains the maximisation, but also the verticalisation of production through the processing of the basic product so that as much of the added value of the silk can remain in Suffli. The original processing can be gradually transformed into production of high-quality, extrovertive end products, which will make the brand name Soufli international velvet. In view of the above, you ask, first of all, whether you intend to improve and restructure the programmes for aid for sero-industry, so as to promote both the verticalisation of production and the full exploitation of the product of the carrots. In addition, you are asking what other measures and actions are to be taken to support and promote silk. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr. Treasury. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u110	Mr Colleagues, I agree with you that the development of the sero-food industry can give the rural population, especially in mountain and disadvantaged areas, an activity that will also support their family income, because in our country there are indeed ideal climatic conditions that favour the possibility of three silkworm rearings during the year - spring, summer, autumn - and, of course, this also means a dynamic development in this sector. Moreover, the know-how of the workforce, particularly in this particular region, also ensures the production of high-quality and efficient cocoons, which means excellent silk, which can be competitive in international markets, especially in the Asian countries, of which it is imported. The payments made by the OPEKEPE for 2015 amount to EUR 637 000. Sixty-four beneficiaries have been awarded. Forty-three are the beneficiaries of Evros, with 290 thousand euros aid. We by Ministerial Decision, which laid down the modalities for the granting of linked support to the sorbation sector for the period 2015-2020, have provided for an amount of EUR 4.7 million. This funding comes from the resources of Article 53 of the regulation and of course is granted under specific conditions, how the silk-seed is to be supplied, what each box will contain, how many at least silkworm eggs. The procedures are the technical details of which will be learned by those interested. What I want to say to you, by closing my intervention, is that the General Secretariat of Industry is already drawing up a targeted study on the specialisation of a specific action plan for the development of sero-food in our country and, in particular, for this region.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u111	Mr. Prussakis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u112	Minister, it is important that we move from words to actions. You spoke about financing all these people who are involved in the primary sector. How many of these products have our producers made have become secondary and tertiary products? Do you know that? We here have our deficit. Our deficit is that we cannot produce secondary and tertiary products. The Soufflion region offers you a splendid glorious field and I think you should bend on the problem, because I see that you and your partners haven't been bent on it. In June I delivered to the Deputy Minister of Development this note in order to prepare with his staff and colleagues and to go on time and on a day planned by him and to inform us, firstly, about the forests of land, secondly about the development of silk production in Evros, thirdly about the statistics on zoonoses and fourthly about cotton growers. If you called, I did. That's the Minister's attitude to a Member. I guess who's going to be against the civilians. On the other hand, the question is to go directly to targeted interventions to support sero-food. These interventions must also be made in the primary and secondary sectors. There are buildings, there are infrastructure, there are weaving rooms, there are wheelchairs. I think you'll have to go through a design even to recruit the local university, the Democritus University. He has excellent scientists and they may be useful to you. In fact, the speech is on the way here, because we have serious problems with the flooding phenomena in Evros and his bypasses, so that we cannot cultivate these productions that are necessary for our region. I think, Minister, that you need to bend on the problems of Evros. Evros may be far away, as some people here in Athens say, but the problems will drown us all. I would also like, in addition to what I am saying, to stress that you have a great potential to exploit the Soufly. Mr President, I would like to stress - and in the Minutes of this House - that, in the context of the development laws, eighteen Sufflion entrepreneurs have received the loans provided for. All eighteen businesses have been alive for decades. These are the Soufflion housewives, so you have to treat them. I would like you to look at the issue of Evros veterinarians, especially Orestiad. There's one left. It's not even enough to supervise the slaughterhouses.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u113	Finish it, Mr. Pilgrim.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u114	I shall conclude, Mr President. Also, one serious issue I would like you to pay attention to is this: the operation of the Orestiad sugar factory has already begun. Did the hires from the so-called company take place in a lawful manner? Were those who were needed for the factory in order to work? Recruitment of all the things that happened? We'd like you to let us know, Minister. I think you have the sensitivity and you will investigate them and give solutions to our problems. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u115	Mr. Apostleus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u116	Mr Colleague, I understand your anxiety about a number of issues that you have raised. But at the moment we have a specific parliamentary question and I will answer it to you. You say we leave words and move on to action. But that's what we're doing. I told you earlier that we have linked the crop with the related aid for the next five years. We secured 4.7 million. We have in front of us a rural development programme that has a concrete measure, 4-2-1, which is the main objective of the processing and marketing of agricultural products. In the context of this action, we will certainly also incorporate the issues relating to sero-food, since, like you, and we, too, recognise that Greek production has all the possibilities and the prerequisites, even internationally compete. So when we have a programme that says that we can invest up to a cost of EUR 10 million, particularly in the region of eastern Macedonia and Thrace, where the aid rate exceeds 50% of the eligible costs, in particular in the glorious field of glory all together - and you and us - to be able to integrate activities into this operational programme. We have the money, we have the mood, there is the world, so what better period to do what we say? We want your cooperation. In fact, especially the piece of sero-industry is a part that has been linked to a particular area and it is time, that is, there are possibilities, to develop.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Minister. We move to the fourth under number 58/10-10-2016 top-level question of the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKERROKIKIKOKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKOKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKOKOKOKOKIKIKIKIKIKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKIKIKIKOKOKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOK Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, during his presence at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition on 10 September, the Prime Minister made two main announcements. One concerned the establishment of an inconsistent business account to facilitate the companies experiencing the difficult ones, and the other concerned the "fresh" of outstanding debts, self-employed and professionals to the OSCE and the EFF. We will, of course, discuss the second issue of your subject, although the introduction of the unsuccessful business account will facilitate the management of insurance contributions in particular, in order to also pay the employees' wages, which are the subject of your ministry, and you must appeal to the Ministry of Finance, in my view, to that end. Let us now come to the issue of overdue debts. We had a debate here in the House on the occasion of a timely question about the possibility of bringing back hundreds of doses. No specific answers were given on the issue of late payments. I would therefore like to ask specifically, as is the case in the timely question, the following: Is the Prime Minister's commitment yes or no, to the outstanding debts that have arisen so far and will they arise in the next period as a result of a loss of the hundred-dollar arrangement for the OHIM and EAFRD funds? For those who have not entered anyway, I think they are part of it. The second question is: Since when will this 'fresh' enter into force, so that they can take advantage of the improvement in the safety of undertakings which have so far not been able to do so? When will the Ministry be able to announce dates and specific things. It has already been a month since, and for this category of businesses it is very important. Although it's only a month, it's too long, because 31-12-2016 is near. That's what I'm saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u119	The Undersecretary, Mr. Petropoulos, will answer. Please, Mr. Petersburg, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. I told you in our previous debate - my answer to your own timely question - Mr Kegeroglu, that we are working out a complete system that is approaching in a truly reliable manner the possibilities of insured persons to pay debts to the insurance funds. I told you that, once this processing is done, the mechanism will be given the knowledge and the insured will be given in order to make use of it. The debts are too great. To the OAU, I have to say that some ninety-six thousand insured do not pay contributions, about four hundred four thousand are the ones who pay and a large number have already been fully endowed for some time, stopping their activities. It's an explosive image. I have spoken many times about this problem, and it is why the Prime Minister has announced this measure of the 'freeze' of debts. Of course, the freeze relates to those who have to. I've said it before, because there's been many times conscious distortions by a bunch of people who want to show up with publications in another way than we say. A characteristic example is today's front page that says "Get back the pensions we gave you". Huge, vulgar title, the whole page: "Get back the pensions we gave you," and since this morning I have been crazy by journalists to say what will suddenly come up when I, as Undersecretary in February this year, took out a circular to give pensions in the old way calculated pension benefits, because they had reached the point too many had not got a single euro. That's the old way. Suddenly, he finds the fantasy journalist, who plays this role, that people will not get their pension just as we give it, because they will be forced to return it. Nothing falseer! That is why I sometimes have to extend my answer to avoid such fraudulent reports from a portion of some who are struggling with evidence, making numbers from their minds. Your question, however, because I understand that it manifests itself with an interest in too many people in finding out what will be done with their debts, has this answer, as I said before. Those with due obligations to the operators and who have not been served, I would once again stress what I said - and you, too, stressed - that it will not be good for those who are in the settings of the hundreds of doses to stop paying because they will lose the benefits. Everyone will be covered with this announcement and we will have this possibility with the new regulation system and the debts to facilitate this world with all debts from 1-1-2017.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u121	Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister has already mentioned the information for those who continue to serve and pay the insurance contributions and, of course, for those who do not pay them and who are or are not regulated. It's a big problem, and I think it needs a timeline. If you are late in adopting your decisions on the specific way in which the Prime Minister's announcement on the freezing of late debts will be regulated and implemented, what I predict will increase sharply over the next period, not necessarily due to weakness. It is therefore urgent that this decision should be taken so that we do not have this negative development. I think you understand what I'm telling you. It's a prediction of a negative development. It is obviously not one’s desire, neither the government nor the parliament nor obviously the pensioners themselves who have to receive pensions. By the time I spoke about pensions, the post you are saying - I did not see it today - poses a risk that it might also be unfounded for another reason, which you did not say. From 13 May no normal pensions have been issued. What pensions have people received since 13 May? They may have taken a deposit. However, since May 13th, no pensioner has been retired for normal retirement. So, what money are you asking them for back? In this sense it may be unfounded. But, in order to tell this out, I would like to insist on the timetable. I want you to tell me one you'll be ready by the end of October, the end of November or the end of December. In any case, this must be done by then in order to have the Prime Minister's commitment implemented. It can't stay in the air. It is not possible to suspended the way in which it is implemented and, therefore, every person insured and obliged to interpret the announcement as he wants or as he thinks, which means that it will take action which may not be good for him. However, this margin must not be left to you in the timely adoption of a decision or regulation. First of all, does it need legislation? You didn't tell us. Is he coming here to the House? If that is the case, why do you not send a draft to the committee so that we can express our opinion and see it as soon as possible? Is it the subject of negotiation with the institutions? That is another question. I'm not saying, of course, if someone else asked her in another period. There may have said other things, such as "You expect the approval of these things and these...", using other such designations. I ask this: is it negotiated with the institutions? Minister, please very much, we expect concrete answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u123	Please, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u124	I hope that the next time you ask will be following our decisions and the legislative arrangements that will be needed. Don't call me for the same things again because we have to work to do what we have announced and wants a lot of work. Mr. Kegeroglu, you realize that he wants a job to codify and system the debts in a way that an information system will process the information package so that he can see what the debtor's profile is so that it won't be strangled. At this time of 2010, everyone has been at the top of this pressure on debt repayment, failing to pay them off and nobody has taken into account what they really can do. There were too many employees, lawyers, a whole mechanism chasing the impoverished and the impossible to collect in a horizontal way. So that's what we're dealing with, and that takes a lot of work. We want to see it through the experience of cases of this kind. We already see it. We've already worked too hard on this, but it's not something you're ending in a short period of one month. However, it is certain that before the announcement of the 'freezing' is implemented, we will have finished this whole thing. We work too much with many scientists to achieve this. I am sure that it is something that you will support, if necessary and you will vote for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being informed about the history of the building and how the House organises and operates, thirty-six visitors from the Centre for Mental Health of Piraeus and from the Parents' Association of Supported Living in Attica. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] And we move to the ninth under number 3/3-10-2016, a topical question by the Member of the Achaias Parliamentary of the River Mr. Jason Fotilla to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, concerning the cancellation of the tender of the Patras - Tower street. The question will be answered by the Minister, Mr. Spirtzis. Here, Mr. Lightla, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I come here today as a Member of Parliament to share with you, as with my fellow citizens, the concerns we have throughout Achaia, as well as all of Western Greece, the Peloponnese and the Ionian Islands about the many paths of Patras - Pyrgos. The various timetables announced by the government for the completion of tenders - and not just - were unfortunately not verified. But our fears were true. Minister, we did not come here to apologize, as you requested in June 2016, before all the productive bodies of self-government and the reasoning through which we expressed our concerns about the completion of the project. We will not apologise for expressing our objections to the partitioning of the Patras to Tower as citizens. The postponement of the fourth tender - which, according to your first timetable, all eight had to be completed by the summer of 2016 - puts us into thoughts of the completion of the project. And, really, we'd like to know if it's the last timeline, whether it's final or it can change again. My fellow citizens and I feel that we are swimming in deep waters with time to tighten suffocatingly. You understand that a 435 million-dollar road cannot be financed from the Public Investment Fund, all of which has 700 million. Therefore, in 2021 it becomes the terminal, i.e. it has no further. We are now or never, with the "never" closing our eye. And to be more specific, let's see what the data we've got right now. A minority has emerged - as a strange coincidence one for all three auctions - with very high discounts, without any legal contracts for the auctioned pieces. I would also like to point out my concern about major discounts and about whether projects can be completed. Experience has shown that they usually suit the contractor rather than the project. I don't want to extend to that, but I wish to be disproved in the future. But we still have five competitions to complete by the end of the year. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance for a moment. According to the last schedule, when will each be one of these competitions? What's everyone's schedule, and we minimized the possibility of rediscovering obstacles in the course of evolution? And since we are talking about obstacles, you know well that there are eight major court disputes of expropriation, as of course anything else can arise in relation to archaeological sites that will lead to additional delays. However, Golgothas does not stop here, because after the Court of Auditors has decided on subjects and whether or not to light up the green light. And not all of this is enough, but we also forget another factor, which I hope will not be fatal. The large-scale dossier to the European Union needs to be prepared. And here starts the count: four months to find out whether the project will be approved by the competent bodies, at least four months to make environmental study and cost-benefit study. And here is a big question: How sure we are that the project will receive positive approval from the European Union, when the large project dossier which is being prepared provides, as far as we know, for a single project - this dossier will go to the European Union - and the project is actually partitioned. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member repetitions the doorbell.]] Mr President, I shall end. Besides, we're the last ones. Minister, there is distrust starting with the so far known broker. And with all we've lived lately, we're worried if he'll even find the money for the good execution guarantee. In conclusion, I ask you this: these articles say that in October the great project file would be ready. In fact, the project has been entrusted to the sub-SME. So what stage is it? When will it be over? When will it be submitted to the European Union? What is the exact timeframe for the remaining auctions? Will you promise that this time you will keep it? I would also like to ask you whether you are going to make legislation in relation to No 4412/2016, which has frozen all public procurement and cannot go any further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, too. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. And since we are the last, if Mr Fotillas agrees, we have a little more time to give the necessary answers. Mr President, I will answer one of your questions. The first is that you ask me why the fourth competition has been postponed and what is the new date, the relevant timetable. There are three versions: The first version is the Office. I'll pass it on to you, I'll testify to her later, and because I have a lot to testify, I'll give it to you at the end of the day. The second version is the statements made by your party and you in relation to this project. And the third version is the political imaging that New Democracy, PASOK and, unfortunately, your party is participating together with the well-known publishers and canalarchs. I would therefore like to inform you that this competition was postponed because the Chamber of Technical Chamber did not appoint a representative in the tendering committee in due course. I will submit to you all the relevant correspondence, the invitations from the Ministry, the appointment of representatives of SATE, CEDEFOP, CEDEFOP, the CEDEFOP, their replies documents. It appears that all operators had appointed representatives by 30 August. The Technical Chamber set on September 27, the day of the competition, i.e. at 5 o'clock this afternoon. I will also present to you the document of the Technical Chamber and the correspondence with the Technical Chamber, because on the evening of September 26 we received a press release to inform you of the postponement of the contest. We were answered by the Chamber of Technical Chamber that we could define someone else from a painting. And the Office also replied to this, that the department responsible has never proceeded to put another representative on account of the specific nature of the competition committees. Therefore, it seems a little strange to send a representative of the TEU after the press release on the grounds that he had not sent a representative. This is the first version. This is the first version. Of course, the Agency says very well, I would ask you to take a look at its answer to the whole history of the project. I want to tell you a few things. First of all, if we did the competition without the TEE representative, what would be called. Think that we shouldn't put the representative of the TEI and give back the company, which has invested in the previous ones, and be a shareholder again, what would be called. But we're going through this. Let's go to the big project file. And then we'll go to the second and third versions. A large project file and cost study - benefits should have been made. The project was part of the single concession of Patras - Tower, Athens - Corinth, there was no one. You know that in the review of the previous government he came out. The project was auctioned. Not the big project file has been done, but not a cost-benefit study! And how can it be done? With a 0% discount, as the "Olympia" has become, or is it a real discount, as is happening today? How can it be done, in plastic quantities, that some contestants would know, and some would not, or indeed, like today? How would the cost-benefit study be? How will the large-scale dossier go to the services of the European Union and say 'It costs us so'? By what sum, with the five hundred million, with a 0% discount, with only a few participating companies, which was in the process of directing the project? So this is what the technical world of the country knows, how the works were done and that - not to say a lot of talk - they were directed at the big companies. You know them very well. And it is our political choice that competition should take place transparently and to address more companies so that competition can be increased. Apart from these documents, I will submit the Agency's replies afterwards. However, I would like to comment on two points raised by the Office: The first is that the economic bids of the tenderers - to understand all what we are saying - would be made at standard rates for groups of work, without the public being bound, to the accuracy of the work prepared by the previous single tender. Secondly, the Office says: ‘The clear advantage of the companies that were members of the concessionaire who had participated in the preparation of the studies and in the construction of part of the work of the auctioned project, not only was not minimised, but was increasing with the selected tendering system.’ What does the Agency say? That the companies involved in the ‘Olympia Road’ consortium and participated in the studies had the data, while others did not have them. This has also been objected to by one of the few large non-participating contractors. It says a lot more interesting things about the agency. And it would be nice if anyone were really interested in reading them. It says, for example, that the European Union would not accept a 0% discount on the cost-benefit study and the major-project dossier and would average another discount. So, Mr Fotella, it would be a good thing if you could also communicate them to the local society so that everyone could know what is actually happening and what is said. And in order not to eat time, I will say in my speech on the second version, on the statements made by the river and the best friend and dear colleague, who has asked the timely question, as well as on the third version, which has to do with the channels and how we are dealing with them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational program "Workery Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, nineteen students and students and three educational attendants from the 99th Municipal School of Athens. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Fotella, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you assured me that you will answer all the questions. You've asked for more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u131	I didn't have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u132	You'll do it in your dentistry. So far you have not answered any questions or - most importantly - the timetables.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u133	Because it was postponed, for what reason did I postpone you. I think I convinced you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u134	What I understand is that it's the others' fault, the bad guys. That was the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u135	They're not bad guys.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u136	What you have not answered is what you will do in the future, so that we do not get back into the game of bad ones and be able to continue. Because if we keep hitting on the bad guys, it won't work. I do not think I need to remind you of the importance of the project for all of Western Greece. The development benefits are enormous and the hopes put forward by citizens and businesses are very great. The possibility of not carrying out the work for us is not even an option. Who would believe that we are now fighting for the Patras - Tower project, when the work is normally Patras - Tower - Good Water - Chacona? Good Water - Chacona Department has forgotten about it. I hope we don't forget the Patras tower. So I would like to hear something more specific about the timetables. The truth is, we got a little swept away - very intertwined when we talked about the proclamation of the project as a single one. What you do not understand, because you do not have a picture of our reality, is that, and then we wanted - and now we still want - to do the work. We don't care if it happens in five, ten or fifty pieces. We want the project to be done. Our concerns exist because we know the results of the division. We've seen them both in the mini-perimeter in Patras and Ambros. In Ambracia, we are talking about bankrupt contractors and legal commitments that do not allow the projects to be completed. You spoke of studies, Minister. Tell us something about the Midigli - Lower Achaia study, the southern engraving. Is it done? What phase is it? Should we give an honest and honest answer to the South-Erasmus Committee that, children, the project, or will it be done as it is or will not be done? Should we be a little more honest? I would like a clear answer. And finally tell us if this project is in your priorities, because I personally, if you'll excuse me, I see that your greatest interest is in your blasphemy and not so much in your work. The truth is that we had a project ready to be auctioned in March 2015 as a single project, with studies. The government chose another way. Make a commitment to the citizens of Western Greece that you will overcome all the problems and complete this important task. And we hope that you will keep your word. There's nothing else we can do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u137	Thank you. Mr Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. Let me give you a quick answer. It's in the agency papers. I, Mr Fotella, am not used to - I have said so many times - giving dates of completion of works, competitions and everything else. Why? Because until we have the institutional framework - the second draft law on public works is in consultation - and the electronic systems, with the mess that we have inherited, neither magicians can really provide realistic timetables that will be observed. And that's for a number of reasons. We will do so institutionally, and then the Minister responsible will be able to commit himself and give the appropriate answers very easily, and all citizens will be aware. According to the Office, the fifth contractor will be held in mid-November 2016 and the fourth contractor competition will take place as soon as the Single Independent Public Contract Authority approves the New Standards. This is in a few days' process, if they haven't already been approved by EFSA. And the commitment made by the Agency, because it gives for the rest of the three contests, is that by the end of February 2017 all auctions will have been completed, in March we will complete and send the file and the end of April we will have signed contracts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u139	Will the folder be a single project?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u140	As a single project it will be. Obviously as a single project.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u141	Shouldn't we be worried about having a problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u142	Of course not. With 50% and more discounts in the European Commission for cost-benefit analysis, we have no concern. We would be concerned with 0% discount to be approved, with the overbooking we received, especially in road projects. But sincerely, because of my name and my political achievements, you are very sympathetic, but I will continue in the second version. Mr. Fotella, I wonder why you have tabled the timely question, when your party and you have made specific statements, which I would like to make: "Speak also remains Mr. Spirtzis for Mr. Kalogritsa's best man, who not only gives him the work of Patras - Tower, delaying his implementation, but also gives advances on the 13 million, so that son Kalogritsas can find the money to get the channel. Why else would he get the money to get a channel?" I ask you: when you testify to this question, which is very clear that integration has not even made progress, the file to sign the contract if the Court of Auditors and the other procedure approves, how would Calagris get money to get a channel? The same applies to the other project, the 'gift' you say of the 13 million. I will also present the statements made by the river and, of course, by my dear colleague, as well as by the chosen editor of the Step. Let's finish the second version now. Mrs Gerovali said so a few days ago. I don't have enough of the characterizations. I'm really talking to you, I'm not good enough, and that's why I'm not gonna say anything. Let's go to the third version, to the setup. Two months now, Mr President, we are following the agony of three parties and the canals to create a scandal, but nothing. We challenged them for the mud and yellowing to bring specific complaints to the prosecutor together. They're making deaf. So because we are not deaf and can't break either integrity or morality - nobody! - and because, Mr Fotella, you do not belong to the two traditional parties here of the Democratic Incorporation and of the New Democracy, but unfortunately as Potami you follow them, and because we are not the same, no one holds us and we owe no one, we choose another way. And the way is: we have received the complaints made by honourable Members and the number of newspapers and television broadcasts, and we have taken them to the Corruption Prosecutor's office, and we have tabled them, so that the construction and slander papers can also be shown. If opposition parties don't do it and fly only mud, we did it. We have also submitted the files of all three projects and the fourth with the 'gift' supposedly of 13 million to the prosecutors and public works inspectors. I'll testify these to be in the House. And I want to send a message by the way. If you want to move it to New Democracy and PASOK, too. We won't do back to anything. We will not do back in the works, in the transport, or in the frequencies, or in the feeders - that is, what I said - spaces of the old media, which so far - badly lies to you have been blocking you. Please convey the message to those who do not hear it from the Parliamentary Channel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after being informed of the history of the building and how this House is organized and how two students and students and three teachers from the 6th High School of Heidari. The House, boys, welcome you! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] But you came to the end of the parliamentary control meeting, so you see the end of the sitting. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-13-S1-commons.u144	With the consent of the House at 11.47 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 14 October 2016 at 10 a.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: topical questions.
