ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Today, thirteen time questions will be answered. I would ask you to be precise in time, because then a timely question will be discussed, so you realize that the sitting will take place by afternoon. The third, with number 1310/21-9-2016, timely first-round question from the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the teaching of the Religious Course, will not be discussed, due to the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr. Friends, due to unsuccessful obligations. The fourth under number 1321/26-9-2016 topical question of the first cycle of MP in Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on foreign-language school books that are for payment in all public high schools will not be discussed, due to the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, etc.Friends, due to unsuccessful obligations. The first question under number 5916/6-6-2016 by MP Laconia of the New Democracy, Athanasios Davakis, on the Greek Ambassador to Tehran's decision to stop issuing any national travel visas for investors, corporate executives and financially independent persons who wish to engage in business, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Xydakis. The fifth question under number 1313/22-9-2016 of the first-round question by the Member of Parliament, Achaias, Potamios, Jason Fotela, to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, concerning the reintroduction of the single book price, will not be discussed, due to the absence of the Minister responsible, Mr Stathakis, abroad. The seventh question, with number 1309/21-9-2016, of the First Cycle of Piraeus, of the Union of Centres Mr.Theodoras Megalonou to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, concerning the treatment of the interference in the municipalities of Piraeus, Perama, Korydalou, Keratini - Drapetsonas, Nice - Agios Ioannis Rentis, will not be discussed, due to the absence of the Minister responsible, Mr. Stathakis abroad. The sixth question, under number 1319/26-9-2016, of the First Cycle of the Member of Parliament for the Independent Greeks Mr Vassiliou, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the urgent need to rescue the enterprises and trades of the insured persons of the OAU who have chronic insurance debts, as well as the need to review the amount of the fine imposed for each undeclared worker, will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr Petropoulos abroad. The third, with number 1314/22-9-2016, topical question by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on delays in the completion of three extremely important projects for the operation of the IKA, will not be discussed. The tenth under number 1241/8-9-2016 topical question by Evia MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Michou to the Minister of Finance, on the "TRAINOSE scandalous sale" against the incomplete price of ECU 45 million. It will not be discussed because of the absence of the Minister for Finance, Mr Tsakalotou. Finally, the first under No 1325/23-9-2016 topical question of the second question of the Florina MP in New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Antoniadis to the Minister for Environment and Energy on the progress of the Florina district heating project will not be discussed due to the lack of competence of the Minister. The second question, under number 1323/26-9-2016, of the second question by the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn, Mr Christos Papapas, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, concerning “recognition of the scop passports bearing the name “Macedonia” and the fifth question, with number 1320/26-9-2016, of the second cycle of MP I Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on “the notion of passports with the indication “Macedonia”, will be discussed at the same time, as they refer to the same subject, in application of the provision in Rule 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, without affecting the rights of speakers in relation to the time of their speech. Mr. Pappa, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u3	Minister, first of all it honors you that you have come to answer that question. You can understand that this is a very important, very important issue. In order for the viewers to understand what we are talking about, we are talking about an indirect, de facto recognition of Skopje's resurrected state of Skopje, who wants to steal our national name "Macedonia". Unfortunately, by deeds that often touch not only stupidity, but also betrayal, deliberately or unwittingly, our services help the purpose of this state. Why am I saying that? Because with an urgent document, sent on 22 August by the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction Protection Directorate - in your place Mr. Toskas here might have been to respond - a document that was notified to ELAS passport control office, which no longer obliges third-country passports, namely Skopje, to seal the Greek seal on passports bearing and badly bear - any name, which is mentioned in Macedonia. As our country officially does not recognise this state called "Macedonia", but under the name, as decided, "FYROM", this is a development which, in combination with a number of other incidents, that is to say to call Macedonia "Macedonia" in international fora with the presence of Greek Prime Minister or Greek Minister for National Defence or anything else, is an indirect recognition of Skopje. This goes against not only national interests, but also against the decisions of the Council of Political Heads, as is also against the commitments that the Greek Government should normally have against official foreign policy decisions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You - and I do not mean you personally, because national matters are beyond faces, I mean you as a government - are continuing with the resistance - and I say it with knowledge of the weight of the word - a policy of the New Democracy government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u4	Mr. Pappa, you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u5	Wait a minute, Mr. President. You are not clear that we will not recognise any state under the name 'Macedonia', either geographically or with anything else, and you continue Mr Avramopoulos's policy, which, on 7 July 2012, when the government's programming declarations were being discussed here, had clearly said, Mr President, this, to which no one refers: 'About FYROM, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the name issue is not just a difference in historical events and symbols. I'm sure he's worth it. It is a matter of respect for international law.’
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u6	You've got a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u7	And he also says here is the "Zoumi": "Greece, in displaying the constructive spirit required, has taken a major compromise, accepting a complex name with geographical identification and use against everyone." Have you changed this policy? Because everything shows you're on. And not only do you continue, but you want to implement this very policy, that is, deliver the name.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Pappa, there's a second one. We don't have to talk about everything in the protology. Mr. Saridis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, this question was tabled by us on 5 September. I am saying this, in order to record the time in which it is actually being answered, because some things have been differentiated since then, which may also change situations. When the timely question was submitted, Minister, references had been made to the publicity that had changed the practice of the Greek authorities on visas from the Greek side of the passports held by citizens of third countries and stamped by the state of Skopje, with the words ‘Macedonia’. According to the above reports, the Greek border authorities were sealing the passport directly, unlike the practice, which was entering an informal accompanying document. The above publications came ten days after Mr Kotzias' visit to the state of Skopje, in which, among other things, he referred to the importance of the agreed confidence-building measures between Greece and the neighbouring country. It is noted that the above confidence-building measures, according to what has become known to date, include the political consultations of both Foreign Ministries and on consular issues, as well as cooperation on cross-border issues. On the basis of the above, Mr Minister: Are there actually references to change in visa visa practice? If yes, do you connect this change to one of the agreed confidence-building measures? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u10	Mr. Amanatidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the questions you have asked on such an important subject, I will make a reference to what you said, Mr Saridis, that there were at the time when the questions were raised. All this, of course, was answered in a written reply from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Minister Kotzias to Mr Karaoglou on 13 September and it is clear. However, I take the opportunity to reiterate the position of the Greek Government before Parliament. Of course, I was amazed at the reports that saw the light of publicity for a change in FYROM visa practice. I want to make it clear in all directions that these references do not actually correspond. Any contrary claim simply aims to create impressions and even to such a sensitive issue as Greece's attitude towards the neighbouring country. I think these are issues with which we must be very careful and not rush to draw conclusions, which are often deliberately or irresponsiblely. As of 2009, FYROM citizens have had a Schengen visa waiver for their entry into Greece. In addition, a stamp of arrival - departure on a separate sheet of paper shall be placed upon entry and exit from the Greek territory. This practice has not changed and there is no intention of changing it. Anyone who supports the opposite is lying consciously, serving micro-political purposes and even in such a field of national affairs. I want to repeat this: no change has taken place in FYROM's visa practice. Greece still does not recognize Skopje passports. As for sealing third country citizens' passports on entry or exit from Greece, the Greek state's attitude is determined by practical reasons, based on the protection of the country's interests in areas such as security and the fight against terrorism, the attraction of tourists from third countries and the realisation of international transporters from the Greek territory. This practice, which does not relate to FYROM passports but to third countries, in no case constitutes a recognition of FYROM under its constitutional name. It would be nice to know, not you, but especially the representatives of parties who were in power, when the practice of sealing third-country passports began to apply to citizens of Southeast Europe. As far as the second question is concerned, as I have answered to the first and is clear from my answer, there is no change and therefore there is no linkage between the name and the confidence-building measures. Furthermore, let me tell you that I find it disturbing to think even that the ILOs, i.e. the confidence-building measures, could have led to a change of practice in relation to the revision of FYROM's travel documents. As you know, these MOIs are not linked to the nomenclature. These measures, the IAEA, are our own initiative in order to strengthen economic and social relations between Greece and FYROM. They help to create confidence. As far as the name is concerned, the conditions must of course mature in the neighbour in order to accept a substantial compromise. For the time being, however, its leadership continues to follow the well-known pastoral policy. In my dentistry, I'll say more. As for the international fora, where, deliberately or unintentionally, there are changes in the name, you can be sure, ladies and gentlemen, that the officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and all our services are making their respective speeches and changing immediately. There is no way that Greece will be involved anywhere where this country is not mentioned under the name FYROM. There is no way Greece will participate in such a meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr Amanatidis. You're welcome, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Amanatidis, that is what concerns me, that is, the involvement of the officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u14	We link it to the name we recognize, FYROM.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u15	First of all, that is what concerns me, the involvement of the officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We have no confidence in the officials at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs because of the history of the matter. We are now seeing that we have ended up being on the wall, you and you, in a way, begging Skopje to accept the compromise. What compromise? Is that the composite name? For us, a national retreat of maximum size is when we recognised this state and called FYROM, that is, "First Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia". Mr Amanatidis, you want lessons in the customization at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with all due respect, because I noticed that during your reply you said "Mr Saridis", "Mr. Saridis". You didn't even come back to see me, you didn't mention our name. This delights us, for we are the "leaves" of the political system of post-multimatisation, the "disconstitutions" of this great synagogue called "Greek Parliament". It cheers us up. But what you didn't have the right to say is that whoever admits and says such things is lying. I'm not lying, Mr. Amanatidis. This document reads: "Helen Vakalis, Minister Plenipotentiary, 21 August 2016" is forged? Have you moved procedures for the forger? Is this document of the Ministry of Interior - or as the Ministries have now said - forged? Mr. Amanatidis, you may have good intentions as a person. You also have a few sensitivities on the subject of our Macedonia. But if it comes to recognition - which is the purpose - by geographical definition, at most you, as a person, resign. Your good intentions, your personal intentions, that is, are not enough. It's a whole thing. It's a whole question of your government's policy. When your own components, your youth - and I mean SYRIZA - on social networks mentions the name "Macedonia" clearly, quite clearly, what can we say? Can we talk about the State Department employees? I am telling you in my question that many times - you have not mentioned that - the solution to a problem, in order to support your national position is its non-resolution. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. For us, the Greek nationalists, whatever countries of the earth, and if they recognise this state called "Macedonia", Greece should never recognize and recognize the conscience of the Greek people, it will never be recognized as the neighbouring state called "Macedonia". Let the whole world recognize it. I shall conclude, Mr President. A number of years ago, I remember it was January 10, 1993, we took off the first card in our newspaper "FYROM", as it seems here. The front page at the time was: "No compromise for our Macedonia", that is the position of the Golden Dawn from 1993 until today. He's never changed. I'm putting it down for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents and publications, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] Minister, Ion Dragoumis had said Macedonia was our soul. If we lose Macedonia, we lose Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Saridis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, we did not believe on our part that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has recognised Skopje as "Macedonia". And if the Minister wanted to do that, he doesn't have the right to do it. For us, most importantly, confidence-building measures seem to be not returning. It seems that they do not pay off, because after all that has been done, the President of Skopje, Mr Ivanov, has come to the UN Step and has spoken abhorrently about Greece. In fact, all of his claims remained unanswered by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. That is what concerns us, whether or not confidence-building measures apply, whether or not they have succeeded or failed. This is the most important thing for us, after the Minister's trip to Skopje. Have they succeeded or failed the measures, Minister? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u18	The Minister has the floor for three minutes and another three minutes, if you will.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Poppa, Mr. Congressman, so you're not complaining...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u20	I don't have any complaints.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u21	Mr Papa, Mr Saridis, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of what has been said, I want to say two things. I believe that the officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, like any Greek official, are acting to serve national interests and, of course, the public interest. There is no official of this kind. On the one hand, they give themselves, and I will say that especially the officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs exaggerate themselves, and we talk about people who are not just specialists, are people with a lot of qualifications and a lot of experience. I shall speak briefly to close the matter in this regard. We continue with the constant practice of not recognising the Skopje passport. Any post there is in relation to it and it is against it is untrue and therefore, in my opinion, implied. With regard to third-country citizens whose passports there is the seal of FYROM, the entry-exit seal enters a paper sheet. As regards these passports previously sealed by the Greek authorities, this practice does not in any way constitute the recognition of FYROM, its constitutional name, but is linked to the protection of Greek interests, for example in the field of security, the fight against terrorism, the attraction of tourists. There is no change in Greek practice, so we cannot claim that it is supposedly linked to confidence-building measures. Confidence-building measures are not, anyway, linked to naming. Allow me to say that there have been talks and that the confidence-building measures between the two countries are moving forward and a substantial part of them is later the issue of the name. Such relations, however, cannot be built, as long as there is the maintenance of a dead end and the flagrant forgery and intrinsicization of ancient Greek history and cultural heritage, as I have answered here in Parliament, in relation to this issue. There is no compromise. At the moment, I say again, especially on these issues, we should be very careful. I thank you for the question, because you have given us the opportunity to make it clear. However, if some people want to say that they used to give about Kosovo and put the seal on, while it was said that there is no intention or any right to recognise Kosovo, and now they want to say something else, it is their thing. And, of course, I'm not talking about you. I am referring to those who have made such views public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, too. We proceed with the eleventh question under number 1300/20-9-2016 of a topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Ministers for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Infrastructure, Transport and Networks on the flood protection of the Thessaloniki town complex. The current question will be answered by the State Secretary, Mr Balafas. Please, Mr Delis, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much, Mr President. The subject of today's question, Minister, is timely, especially at this time, as every year. This year, of course, there is also a tragic time-consuming event, because we had, unfortunately, also killed among the flood disasters. Our topical question concerns the flood protection and armoring of the town complex of Thessaloniki. In reality, however, it could be the whole of the country and its urban centres. There is a problem, Minister, in Thessaloniki with regard to its flood protection. There was a contract between the Ministry and the water supply and sewerage company - a company, I would remind you, which was only yesterday the majority of them included in the superstition - which provided for the control and purification of wells and vegetation pipelines, but which ended at the end of 2014. There were, of course, other necessary anti-military operations, which must be repeated every year, because the network, as you can see, requires maintenance. Since the end of 2014, since the end of the contract, until now, there has been a tactical transfer of responsibilities between the State, the government, the district and the municipalities, for who ultimately has responsibility for maintaining the pipeline and for maintaining the total anti-military protection. Of course, we know very well that this responsibility has been transferred to the region since 2010, without, of course, transferring funds. In any case, we are ringing the bell to the government for Thessaloniki - a band, where it lives around a million and a half people - about what can happen to a network of anti-military protection that has to be maintained for several months, not to say for years. We would like to hear what the government intends to do to ensure the flood protection of the Thessaloniki town complex, the protection of its people and of course all those living in Thessaloniki. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u24	Here, Mr Balafa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, as you rightly see in your current question, from January 2015 until today, there is this ambiguity about who finally has responsibility for the Thessaloniki urban complex for managing the rainbows in particular, as well as for the anti-military protection of the complex. There is no doubt in this question that it is the main responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, which is a co-sponsored Ministry, according to your timely question, but the Ministry of the Interior supervises the "HISTH S.A.". Of course, at the same time, we have a direct relationship with the OTAs and the region, where there is a question, but also with the municipalities, where there is also a question of decentralised administration. So I answer your question, and I think that the debate can also help with proposals in every direction to resolve the issue orderly. It is also true that until 2014, under the laws of 2001 and 2005, this responsibility was in the Ministry and the Ministry, the then Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Fund for Rams and Anti-Memorandums, and there was a corresponding contract, which also provided funding from the Ministry. What happened after December 2014? As of December 2014, after the end of this contract, the resolution of No3852/2010, known as ‘KALIKRATS’, had been implemented to the periphery and in general the OTAs. It was actually in the districts. However, in the urban complex of Thessaloniki, as well as in Athens, due to the size and on the one hand to the very high expenditure required for these issues, the region has disagreed and is still opposed to this transfer, in addition to the question of funding and the following fact: of course, Law No.3852/2010, which transfers responsibility to the region, is a later law in 2001 and 2005, but these laws, the previous laws, 2001 and 2005, speak specifically about the rain and not generally about the flood protection. So these laws have power over the subsequent one, but very general law, n.3852/2010. It could be argued that this is a real problem, but we should not just look at it and see it. This discernment must be stopped. We must stop this blocking and launch the definitive solution. That is why there is a process, a reflection and a concrete initiative. The bodies, as well as the political, social and party actors of Thessaloniki, must also participate and a meeting should be set up with the relevant Ministers for Home Affairs, Administrative Reconstruction, the Fund, the Regional Administrator of Western Macedonia, representatives of Western Macedonia, the EMI, the Decentralised Administration, the Regional Association of Municipalities of Central Macedonia, in order to resolve this issue and to provide a definitive solution to the problem that has arisen in your area. Finally, I would like to say that there is no gap, in the sense of 'now what we are doing in this transitional period'. The "ETH S.A.", which is supervised by our Ministry, performs - and will carry out - all the necessary tasks that you are referring to, which is about EUR 1.5 million, as the Deputy Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction of the former Ministry of Macedonia - Thrace, Mrs Kollia - Tsarouha, has confirmed, in order to ensure that there is the necessary protection for the Greece's urban complex in Thessaloniki, until the final solution, which will be given as soon as possible, i.e. in the coming months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, too. Mr. Delia, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, Minister, despite the fact that the contract concluded for a period of time was the most basic ones of the projects provided for in the contract. However, we believe, from the information we have, that this is constantly falling, i.e. the intervention of the EBRD without the contract. In any case we can't stay only in the most basic and most basic, because, you know, weather phenomena have a periodic appearance, which most of the times their intensity is not known in advance, so we have to be ready to deal with them. We believe there is a problem, there is a danger to the town complex of Thessaloniki. There is no guarantee of anti-military armour and of protection with the work that has been done so far - so we are hitting the risk bell for the city - from a very strong rain - that is, nature sometimes rains too much, snows very much - and precisely the anti-military works must have the specifications so that they can be dealt with, that is, not to incriminate these weather phenomena. Of course, here we must say that in your reply, which we have heard very carefully, you have actually expressed a wish for a meeting to be held in order to find a solution to this issue. We believe that the government's actions should have been immediate, should have started from yesterday, in an intra-state consultation, because the region is a state institution, it is nothing different. I do not know now how you will get in touch with the region and the municipalities so that this case ends and ends very quickly, because we are already in autumn and we are entering winter. However, here we must stress and the Greek people must know, who are also experiencing it, that these anti-military, anti-military, anti-nuclear, anti-nuclear projects are, unfortunately, the poor relative of the state's budgets, the budgets of the regions and the municipalities and are, of course, the dismissal of the European Union, which they do not consider to be eligible for and which does not finance. It does not consider them eligible, precisely because - as the European Union itself has said in repeated documents it has submitted - it selects and finances those projects which produce profits, not only from their construction, but also from their use. In any case, they are responsible for the government, Minister, you and your Ministry, together with the Ministry responsible, the Ministry of Transport and Networks. We invite you from this Step to take immediate action, as your responsibility is, so that there is no risk of any weather in the city of Thessaloniki. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u29	Mr Delis, I am not specifically referring to you, to all of us - I am talking about the little experience I have from parliamentary control - is not a question for you to ask or do what you are asking us to do about what we are answering. It's a good thing to have a dialogue. I specifically answered you. There is the question of the final solution. I'd like, honestly, to do a co-operation. What do you suggest who will take care of it? I'm saying it again, it's not just some people who ask that we're answering. What do you suggest? Let's take it. Welcome to the proposal. Let's talk about it. It's a real problem. In any case, that is not the main problem, nor can I ask questions. But I want to say one thing. Of course the dangers are clear, but they are not in the air, there is no gap. There's NYPD. The NSAF is financed and will be financed for any problems and for any projects that it performs - this is clear - and apart from the money generally allocated to projects of this category by the Ministry, our total amount for 2016 is EUR 3.6 million. There is also an interest in the European Union, which has made public invitations to the region and to the decentralised administration and to the other bodies asking for proposals - the end date was 22 September - which have been submitted and will be evaluated - not yet assessed - in relation to European funds. In any case - I stress again - the NSAF will do its job. Furthermore, with regard to the plans for the settlement of the regional grave of Thessaloniki - a major project - and the question of the completion of the projects of the Treepotamos settlement that escalates into the Thermaikos and where urgent maintenance facilities are needed, all of this is not in the air. Also, the sub-SMEP is dealing with these issues. Finally, I think - and this in particular needs to be pointed out to the EEAS, because it is supervised by us - that special projects are also needed within Thessaloniki. These are projects that one might think are small, but they are not. We're talking about cleaning up the wells and so on. and within the city of Thessaloniki, essentially in the centre, through the co-operation of the municipalities and the corresponding financing of the region and other bodies of the ATT. I repeat that there are solutions and proposals in every case. However, I do not want to talk about them now, because I cannot take the blame of what is going to happen after all. EKSH, for example, - because I like to deal specifically with a good communication, do not say that Balafas said "that's what should be done" - could play, Mr Deli, the role played by EKHP in the urban complex of Athens and Piraeus, with corresponding regulatory plan, funding etc. Let's talk about it. I say this as a thought and this is not a specific proposal. But I think that by working together we can contribute to a genuinely time-consuming problem, while at the same time facing the immediate problems, as I said before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, too. The twelfth question will be discussed under number 1216/5-9-2016 with regard to the second question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, Minister for Home and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning measures to absorb all children at the children's stations. Here you go, Mr. Synergy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, your Government unfortunately and this year excludes thousands of children and infants from child-care stations, as well as from the CCPs. We have told you that these changes that you have made will again exclude thousands of children and that in this way you are actually being donated to private children. You were telling us that this new voucher system with direct funding to the beneficiary and the abolition of the hosting restriction to 70% of the posts in each structure is fair and social and that this new programme would flow quickly and smoothly. And yet, there's an unbelievable mess. And, of course, the government is now trying to 'block them'. In fact, you are channeling a number of non - papers, saying that ninety thousand children will be included in the kindergartens this year, which is a record. The Prime Minister did so yesterday in the pre-dated discussion on education. He said that this year they entered the nurseries 15,000 more children. Where does this evidence come from? This is a great lie. As a lie it is what Mr Mitsotakis said, for his own opposition. He said that when New Democracy comes to the government, there will be no children left outside the kindergartens. So let's see what the evidence says. The evidence says that in a total of thirty - two thousand eight hundred fifty nine applications, you gave eighty-four thousand voucher. You've ruled out forty-eight thousand children. It is not thirty-seven thousand sixty-sixty-nine, such as you or various publications present, but there are the fifteen thousand children left with the coupon in hand, that is, they have found no place. So at the children's stations, at the CFP, a maximum of seventy-four thousand children entered, or ten thousand children less than last year. Even if the government, as it says, gives the vouchers to the perpetrators, can you tell us what is going to happen with the fifteen thousand children and their families who do not have the sun fate, with an income of EUR 0 to EUR 12 000? What's the way out for these kids? Nothin'! In fact, Minister, you're throwing them away. He promised the Prime Minister in ID fifteen voucher of the canalarchs' money. But again, with various non- papers you tell us that they will be given when the conditions allow it when we go to development. Believe it? Let's believe it. Can you tell us what structures and places these children will take, because there are no places or have been filled with other children who did not meet the criteria of the ESRB? And what, of course, will happen with the thousands of children and families who are literally outdated, since the feedingstuffs demanded by the municipal and private children's stations are arrogant? Minister - and I conclude, Mr President - we have also confirmed our objections and our accusations - complaints of unions, parents' associations and mayors who have called on you to withdraw this voucher programme. Because it was clearer, sunshine, that financing would follow the parent and not the structure and, above all, support for public structures, and children's stations would be in the air. No one was heard at that time. And the result, of course, is what we are experiencing today. So I sum up, Minister: this is a very specific issue. What are you going to do now, not in the biennial, when your development comes, to include all children without exception, whether with voucher or without voucher, whether parents have participated in the program and have not been approved or submitted their request to the municipalities? Will you proceed to brave funding of the municipalities so that these structures for the children's stations, the CFPs, can be set up immediately to meet the needs of all children? And finally, will you guarantee for all municipalities the renewal of workers' contracts with a view to their permanentisation, but will you hire new staff to meet the growing needs of the municipalities? These are critical questions and request an answer now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, as you and we are well aware, this is what happens every year. And don't freak out by saying what happened before 2015 and before 2016. We had no ideal situation before 2015 and before 2016. Many times - and I am not talking about you - an anti-Syrian or anti-Government delirium by some people, they forget what was happening before. And they're making a review of good or bad, and they're forgetting what was going on. There is no need, therefore, for any kind of exorbitance of the previous situation. It is well known that all the parents' applications for their children at nurseries were not met over the past few years. That's reality. It's over and out. Let's know what's going on with us. The same applies and applied throughout the period of implementation of the program, the "Family and Occupational Life Harmonisation" action, which covers the period 2014-2020. In this year 2016-2017, we have been implementing changes for the first time in the way we deal with the issue. Each parent was provided with this so-called voucher, a placement value, on the basis of which he seeks and chooses a child station for his child. First of all, this is not negative. The right to choice is not generally and vaguely negative. And it was given priority. Let's not forget that. Who are the first to molecule, not last year and years ago? First of all, molecules are poor families that are below the poverty line, as well as children with disabilities. That was not the case in the previous years. They're the ones that go first. And that cannot be ignored. So I say that things are not perfect. Paradise on this earth has never been and will never be. However, things in this matter are evolving according to a plan. And to be honest, to say things by their name, it is fortunately not that the catastrophe predictions from various aspects of the six destructive ones have been verified. Some are as if they wished that the plan would not succeed in being able to criticize. Let us come to the evidence rather than appreciates and wishes: Report a number: Approximately a hundred twenty thousand applications for the year 2016-2017. The beneficiaries who took part in the first stage - I would point out, in the first phase - voucher were eighty-sixteen thousand children. Last year they got eighty-one thousand seven hundred twenty children, according to evidence. There are thirty-six thousand children left in the first phase? Of course, as in previous years. But we didn't stop there. There is a figure of about ten thousand - and I tell you about it for information, because you may not be informed - voucher, which is because of the parental relationship, a child, a place, a desire, etc. and available structures, have not been made available. These - let's say the expression - are abundant and at the disposal of the parents. That's where they stay. At the same time, there is a second breakdown, as we have already announced, due to the vacant positions that exist in various structures. The beneficiary of this arrangement, the Greek Local Government and Reconstruction Company, the EBRD, has been asked to apply for parents who have not taken the first phase voucher, providing a certificate from a nursery or nursery station or a CIDS etc. that he committed a position for them. They've already made thirteen thousand applications. The announcement of the list, why the data, according to the assurance of the EBRD, should be investigated, will be the first 10 days of October. I tell you until mid-October. The aim is - and this objective is very realistic - to be given if possible to all of them, and to the thirteen thousand, a new voucher to increase the number of beneficiaries. In other words, we should go to a gap of only twenty-three thousand. It's empty, but it's not a huge gap. There's always been such a gap. At the same time, this will be done with the planned one - we have said that, when we started the plan - strengthening, increasing the budget. You mention the need to create new structures. Of course there is, and there will always be. I hope that we will be better faced with the situation in demographics and that there will always be a need for more and more structures. I saw yesterday a request from the person responsible for these matters in Patras, in the Municipality of Patras. Seriously, man said they wanted some new structures too, realistically, etc. But it is the responsibility of the municipalities. To strengthen, of course. And the money and the evidence that Mr Tsipras mentioned yesterday is exactly what I said. That's the situation, that's the data. Of course, no one could want...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u34	Minister, you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u35	All right, Mr. President. I'll tell you about the renewal in my dentistry. Just say, don't knock off an open door. Renewals have been made. Do not refer to renewals again. I'll talk to my dentist.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u36	Mr Synthraki, I would ask you, because there are thirteen topical questions, and there is also a great time-consuming question, and we will be going to this afternoon, confine ourselves to time. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we will never stand up to what has happened to the governments of New Democracy - PASOK and what is happening today in SYRIZA government. For us the criterion is before and now whether all needs are met, because it is necessary for children to go to kindergartens. We say, then, that this need was not covered at the time, nor is it covered today. The question is not whether it's plus or out of five thousand, five over or five down. That's the infamous left policy you've been telling us all these years? It reminds us of all this reference to the numbers "what they were eventually were, how many we'll get, how many we'll choose, with the vouchers and the others," this funny grooming of the grandmas who said to their grandchildren, to make them laugh at: "three, twelve, three and fifteen and eleven and five and six and half and tell me how many they do." That's what the government reminds us of. In other words, through your tactics, your propaganda, you are trying to really vomit the situation and losers out of households and children. It is really a challenge to insist on a programme that supports poor and unemployed households. These commitments that you have now made - 'commitments', in any case, what you have said so far - are a commitment to imaginativeness, trying to sort out the uncoupled ones. I would like to ask you very specifically the following questions. Are you giving a definitive solution to those who had the vouchers and didn't find a position, so are their kids left outside? We want a concrete answer. You'll give it to the overseers, you say, there's a joint ministerial decision. However, the problem of the exclusion of the original beneficiaries remains. I mean, you're literally throwing them away. You don't answer that. Secondly, where will those taking positions - if they get - the fifteen thousand vouchers from the Prime Minister's commitment, since all structures are overcrowded? And how does that look? What time have you given to deposit their cards? Till Monday he passed. Why is the procedure not completed and you are giving an extension for next week? That is precisely why these problems arise here, Minister. And ultimately, what about the children of all the applicants who have been rejected? That's what you're not answering. Because they are not the tycoons of wealth. They have low incomes too. What are you doing? Who are the poor and who are the impoverished? Take what the poor have to give to the most impoverished. In other words, you are actually managing poverty. All this, Minister, is asking for an answer and you must be honest in these matters and for another reason, because it is now clear that this is a European Union policy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. And how is it a European Union policy? I would remind you of what the European Union Commissioner for Employment, Mrs Taisen, has said in reply to a question from the European Parliamentary Group on childcare facilities. She was extremely revealing. 'The European Union does not consider the operating costs of children and nurseries to be eligible. The European Union supports only investments, productive investments and capacity-building activities. Operational costs do not therefore fall within the scope of its assistance through the European Regional Development Fund’. The European Union's cynical confession, Minister. Here's what policy you are defending, the European Union's policy that gives abundantly state-of-the-art money, the ESDP money, all European money gives it the big money for the supposed development and creation of this favourable investment environment, and you'll fly to the tarts literally children and infants. So, from the first moment on, from baby age! Here's what your policy is, Minister! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] We will not stop and insist and call on the world to claim self-evident. What are the self-evidents? And that's what you need to get in place. Will there be new structures in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u38	You're welcome, Mr. Synchronous.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u39	Are you going to build building functionally and safely?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u40	I begged you to stay in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u41	Are you going to permanentize the contractors?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u42	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u43	I shall conclude, Mr President. Will you finance the state budget? Will you abolish the food supplies? Will you abolish the vouchers, which are umbrellas to support private children's stations? You give them an answer, because that's what people expect people to hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u44	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u45	Look, Mr. Synthraki, you're forcing me to generalize the conversation and say - because I repeat want substance - that heavens on earth do not exist. Cases 100% don't exist. Where they attempted or broke their faces, who promised paradises on earth or became crimes. Let me tell you something about Europe. I wish we had nurseries such as several countries of the European Union, for example Sweden, and not just - such possibilities. Why, are children's stations generally bad in the countries of the European Union? So what? Are we demonizing? I'm talking with evidence, and I'm talking with numbers. You said a genius, your right, about numbers. Look, when the numbers don't come out, the worst for the numbers. That reminds me of what you're doing. The numbers are specific. Say it's not like that. Let us say that 'I would like nothing to stay outside', that is yes, your right. But don't say "the numbers remind me of three oil, three vinegar" - what you said - smart, intelligence. Those are the numbers. Contrast them and judge them. Not when the numbers don't make us that much worse for numbers. There are real problems that life tells us, they're not in our heads. It says "region, county, structures less, object beneficiaries - on the basis of criteria - more". What are you doing? There's a matter. It is a question of new structures. Tomorrow? What? That's what I'm telling you. As for the plan, I would like to say to you: what four features were of the plan, to judge them: a cover by priority for all households who are below the poverty line. Bad? Oh, no. Very good. Social, classic, fair system. Priority coverage of all households with children with disabilities. Do you disagree? Of course you don't disagree. Outcome: it is the same number of beneficiaries, i.e. about sixty-six thousand, and more children - three to four thousand, which have been covered this year, apart from the possibilities we will have with the new vouchers you say. Can I tell you something? You say the end date of the EBRD ended, which was a few days ago. We know. That is why I told you that we were assured that the first 10 days we will have the results. We hope that another thirteen thousand children - that's real life, Mr. Synchroniki, not brain shapes - will finally get into the program. Sometimes I don't understand you, because you're very diligent, and I've known it for many years. Do you not know that, especially in these structures, the laws providing for renewables do not provide for fixed and slightly bureaucratic procedures by means of a Ministerial Council act, but are sufficient decisions by the municipal and administrative councils of the legal persons supervising these bodies? You know that. Do you not know that with circulars of our own, renewables have been guaranteed? There is a delay - and I do not think you are referring to it as a member of Heraklion - of a bureaucratic nature in Attica that will be settled next week, but in all the other regions there have been renewals. Of course, you're asking when the simulations are going to be done. I don't understand. Don't you know that the permanentisation of the fixed time conflicts with the Constitution? In the debate on the Constitution you will bring proposals to permanentize all contractors. Let's talk about it and talk about it then. You bring it all the time. 'Simulation here and now to everyone'. You know that is forbidden constitutionally. Say 'the party, despite the constitutional check,...'. As I appreciate you very much, I want the dialogue to be alive and not you to say yours and mine. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, too, Minister. The fifteenth third under number 1250/12-9-2016 is to be discussed with a topical question by MP I of the Thessaloniki Union Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the submissiveness of the Technical Service of the Municipality of Arrians of Rodopi. Please, respect in time, Mr. Saridis. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u47	Always, Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, as you know, the Municipality of Arrians in Rodopi is facing many serious problems of an urgent nature in its operation, because it does not have a well-managed technical service. I would remind you, for example, of some of them: inability to set up committees for the receipt of unsavoury work and weighing protocols, inability to design and draw up studies for the construction of new necessary projects, inability to implement ESDP projects. In view of the urgent nature of these problems, can you ask, Mr Minister? Can the Ministry in which you head find an effective and effective solution so that the Municipality of Arrianes can proceed with the necessary recruitment to carry out his technical service? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u48	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u49	This is a specific issue and I thank Mr Saridis, who has recently made a tour of the Komotini Prefecture of Thrace. In this municipality, it found this to be a real problem and enables us to take a step forward in resolving these issues. I thank him, too, for this matter in particular. What's the problem? They shall request the recruitment of basic engineers, university or technological staff in order to enhance the inadequacy of their technical service. There's a technical service, there's some staffing, they want better things. That's right. After I have been informed that in the Municipality of Arrianes, which is not a municipality without staff, they generally serve, according to figures of 14 September, forty-seven regular officials, of whom two are seconded by the district, I remind you - you know - but I remind you in general - that Law 4093/2012 places a restriction on the annual number of recruitments, on analogy, for five departures. On the basis of this given given and the planning of the recruitment of regular staff among them, including what you mentioned for 2016, we published Genaris, Flevarios and a relevant document asking the municipalities - and the Municipality of Arrianes, of course - to prioritise their needs for regular university and technological education, as requested by the municipality, in order to plan on an act of Ministerial Council the issue of the strengthening of municipalities. The Municipality of Arrianes replied that it needs ten recruitments, ten university and technological education workers, of which six are academic and technological engineers. These have been concentrated, they have been promoted in a responsible manner. We have the A.S.S.A.P. procedure. We cannot say 'I'll take them' or 'the Ministry' or 'the municipality will take them'. It's an SAPA procedure. I think that at the end of the year or at the beginning of 2017, to be honest, we will be able to respond and meet this particular need. We also gave the OTAs and the Municipality of Arrianes the opportunity, because there is this narrowness in the recruitment of permanent staff, to submit requests for fixed-term contracts until the procedure for the allocation of regular staff is completed. I have not been in the short time since your question has been tabled so far to contact the mayor to see why he has not made such a request. It is likely not because it is looking forward to the recruitment of regular staff and not for a certain period of time. That's fair, too. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u50	Mr. Saridis has the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u51	I am pleased to see the Minister's commitment that the requests of the Municipality of Arrianes and the rest of the municipalities on a similar basis will be implemented at the beginning of 2017. You realise, Minister, that these services and municipalities clearly want permanent staff and not fixed-term staff. Nor has fixed-term staff been able to work accordingly, as may be the case with permanent staff. I would like to tell you that the municipalities are the structure of the state - you know that very well - which is in direct contact with the citizens. Such solutions should be given much faster, because the development deficit that is created is greater than the intake of two or three or four people that is judged necessary to enable them to offer a project. In fact, a private and public partnership is needed in many cases, so that this deficit can be strengthened with fixed-term recruitment. That's what I think you're looking for. I don't know if he's going to solve this problem definitively. We, too, have the Centro Association to suggest some solutions to this. He's not here to talk about it. But I keep your commitment that at the beginning of 2017 the issue of the Municipality of Arrianes and all the rest of the municipalities will be resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u52	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u53	I think we're making an effort to cover the data as we've said. But I would like to note something, because I understand that your interest in helping specifically and not generally. I get it, I mean it, I hire it. I would like to say to you that due to the inadequate staff you are referring to - and that is the way it is - it is dealing with these problems that you, too, are discussing in your question about setting up the receiving committees, planning and drawing up studies, and - take note of this - about the failure to implement ESDP projects, as you have quite rightly said. So waiting for regular staff coverage, since they do not want a fixed period, and so they did not submit the request, there is a possibility of assistance - so we will also inform them - in the medium term, whether from neighbouring municipalities or from the region concerned.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u54	They got her.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u55	It's been done from there, the two distractions. That's right. It is not, it is two of the districts. That's why we need to communicate. In particular, for ESRB issues, there is a possibility of assisting in the design of studies and the maturation of projects and processes and the Management Unit of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism, i.e. this unit, the Ministry of Economy may, for a period of one month, two months, if there is a proposal for an ESRD, provide staff to help develop the projects. Also, the EBRD, the Hellenic Society of Local Government and Development, has an obligation, the right and the backgrounds to help in particular develop the projects of the ESRB. Thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, too. We continue with the first with number 1316/23-9-2016 timely question of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, George Stylios, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the extension of the deadline for obtaining a doctoral degree for the teachers of applications. The Deputy Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, will answer. Mr. Style, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u57	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, in accordance with Article 78(6)(b) of Law 4009/2011: "The positions..." - I mention just as it is written in the Law - "... of the permanent professors of applications without a doctoral degree serving in the publication of this law, are automatically converted into personal positions of permanent professors of applications, which they occupy". The legislator continues to say: "Their holders may, if they have a doctoral degree up to 31-12-2016, ask for their development in the grade of the assistant professor." That is precisely what I have read in the last sentence of the law, my question, Minister. It is known that the notices of candidates' positions at universities and at TEI are limited and relate to limited cognitive objects. In addition, the minimum period laid down for the acquisition of a doctoral diploma is three years. In practice, given that permanent application teachers are in charge of a significant educational project - more than twenty hours a week - with many administrative tasks - evaluations of programmes in competitions, committees - the time needed to obtain a doctoral degree is not sufficient to enable them to fulfil their obligations at the TEI but, at the same time, to do their research duties. Therefore, because a number of application teachers, already at the TEI, are at risk of being excluded from the evolutionary processes at higher levels of members of scientific staff TEI, and because this request has been adopted and the TEI, the Federation of Scientific Personnel of TEI, asks you: Do you intend to commit to extending the period provided for in the above provision by at least two years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u58	Please, Mrs Ignastopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u59	Mr President, yesterday there was a debate on a pre-dated education provision. We - and you - and other colleagues, who are not part of the SYRIZA party, have shown that we can work together very well for what is not a major problem, but who are important and are very concerned with the everyday life and academic course of people within the institutions. And you - I have to admit - especially for TEIs have shown enormous interest, which, at least as far as I can, I share. Your question gives me the opportunity - and thankfully you are doing it and it is my omission - to say that the threshold will be extended for at least two years - because it is a fair request by 2018 and I think I do not have to say anything else to argue. You said it yourself. It is very important for us, as for you - I understand it - that the people who are in the foundations, particularly at the TEIs, have the opportunity to improve, develop and understand the positions they deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, too. Here you go, Mr. Style.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u61	Madam Minister, thank you for the answer. You are answering an issue concerning a number of scientific staff of the TEI. You help them work more liberated themselves and their research to complete, but also to work within TEI more efficiently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u62	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u63	I just want to repeat something that is very important: I wish that such questions will come and that the ministers will also be urged to do in a spirit of consensus, which must anyway be done and which within the daily life of a ministry are neglected or forgotten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u64	I have the impression that this must be the meaning of the current questions and not controversy without meaning. We continue with the second with number 1311/21-9-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the Congressman of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Aivatidis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, about the inability to install beneficiaries in the workplace located in the area of Agios Ioannis Corfu. The Minister will answer Mr. Katrugalos. Please, Mr Aivatidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, there are a number of issues of a political nature which sterile party or political confrontation should not be liberated. One of these is the subject we are discussing today, on my own initiative, and it concerns the settlement of work dwellings in Agios Ioannis in Corfu. In support of this claim, I have to tell you from the board of directors of the settlements that the current MPs of the government coalition have also made friendly efforts to resolve this issue, which is a major issue for Corfu, which is a major issue for Mr Constantine Paulides. In June, the OAED Commander, Mrs Karamesini, came in and carried out an on-site autopsy, which, on the recommendation of the settlement, accepted as a temporary solution - because the problem is the lack of a sewerage system and a biological cleansing network for the settlement, and that is why the immediate establishment of the houses in their homes does not take place - the creation, at a relatively low cost, of solid septic tanks, in order to establish the beneficiaries directly and then develop this plan, a plan for a permanent solution, which is that of biological cleansing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u66	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u67	Mr Aivatidis, you will allow me, before I go to answer your question, to make a brief statement not on it, but on a serious question of work. Every time I come to the House, I am going to make a similar statement, precisely because it concerns a crucial issue of the development of negotiations with our partners on the reform of the labour relations landscape. It was delivered the day before yesterday and the conclusion of the expert committee, which has agreed to form the basis of the negotiation on labour, is presented tomorrow. This largely adopts the national positions as described in the July joint declaration of the social partners. What I would like to ask the opposition parties, and especially the Civic Opposition, is whether or not they agree to be the basis of the negotiation as a national position, this declaration of the social partners. I am specifically addressing the Civic Opposition, because its Chief said in his speech in Thessaloniki that he proposes to reduce the country's primary surplus obligations, in return for structural changes, which we know in the language of the International Monetary Fund is the term for further deregulation of labour relations. Because I think that all political parties should be placed and chosen for the side with which they will be in the forthcoming negotiation, I consider it crucial for the New Democracy to be placed and to tell us whether it is with the social partners of Greece and their unanimous position or with the International Monetary Fund. With regard to your question, it is true that for such matters that are not high-policy, we should find the ideal technical solutions. As you know and refers to your question, it is a matter that we have inherited since 2014. There are political reasons why it has been delayed. The Occupational Residence Agency, which was responsible for the construction of the project concerned, was abolished. Nevertheless, as you know, the OAED has agreed to fund the Municipality of Corfu, in fact the municipal waste water treatment company that has the power to complete the biological cleansing project. They consider the OAS technical services - and here it is a technical issue, to which I cannot go - that the temporary solution of the septic tanks is not the most appropriate, first of all, because it is not a permanent and, secondly, because it does not seem to cover the concerns of the settlement's residents of further environmental degradation in this area. So what seems to have been agreed between the municipality and the commander of the OAED, who, in view of the seriousness we give as a government on the subject, visited the Municipality of Corfu on 17 June to speed up the procedures in question, is the auctioning of the network's interconnection with the biological cleanup network of the municipality. These are the technical elements that have been put in my mind. If there is any other evidence I should transfer to the OAED, I will listen carefully to you and transfer them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u68	As regards the statement you have made earlier, Minister, as you can see, because it is outside the agenda and the parties are absent, there can be no comment. However, it would be particularly interesting, since you said so - since, of course, the parties agree - whether this position of the social partners would be an unnegotiable limit, what you say'red line' in the negotiation. That would be interesting, because the positions of the partners are somewhat well known. The issue is the result of the negotiation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u69	You're right, Mr. President. This is not the first time that I have been addressing the opposition parties, especially in Civicism, and I am clarifying the matter. And in my previous position before the Parliamentary representatives of all the parties - and of the New Democracy - I made a statement in this regard. I just said that every time I come to the House I will repeat this statement, because, as you know, public reports are kept and there is public broadcasting, everything we say in this Chamber is recorded in the political book of public policy and that is how it should be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u70	Mr. Aivatidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, there are hundreds of seventy-six families of beneficiaries, who are really indignant about how the Greek state has handled their matter. Six out of seventy - six have died, without having had time to dwell in their homes. They are indeed indignant and I would like you to take this very seriously. And I expect you to expressly mention the timetable, as it seems that the provisional solution is rejected, which I do not understand. We have also consulted technocrats on this issue, and we believe that this solution is possible as a temporary one. I am therefore waiting for an explicit assurance from you about when you believe that the settlements will be able to enter their homes, which really constitute a ghost settlement, while the settlement of Agios Ioannis could be a model settlement, a model state of labour dwellings. Please, Mr. Minister, make an explicit report. You are one year Minister of the Ministry in question and with the specific responsibilities and I therefore expect you to express your assurance of the immediate or at least reasonable time of installing the settlement of the settlement of the settlement of Agios Ioannis. I would like to say that these septic tanks are safe. They will not have any negative energy in the environment and the settlements are allowed to bear the operating costs. I would ask you, therefore, to look at this issue from now on with particular sensitivity, which I consider to be distinctive, as well as to see political courtesy. I believe that if you manage and solve, as Minister, this problem will be very important for Corfu. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr. Aivatidis. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u73	Mr Aivatidis, you are absolutely right to transfer the indignation of these people. As I see here in my papers, this project started in 2007 and had a contractual expiry date in 2011. It is indeed a case of exhaustion of the maliciousness and weaknesses of the Greek state. My personal view is that decisions must be taken at local level, in local society, at municipal level. It is not at ministries' level that we need to take weighting decisions. As I see it, too, since the service was updated, the initial project prediction was to become an independent biological cleansing station within the settlement. Residents seem to have reacted to this project, according to the data I have, assuming that it would degrade the area. That's why I talked about local society. We should not only be concerned about the direct stakeholders, but also about the surrounding social atmosphere. In view of this reaction, the solution of the connection with the wider network of biological purification of the Municipality of Corfu was chosen. So my first answer to what you said is that it is not primarily the responsibility of the central administration, but the local administration - which is closer to the local society - to carry out the relevant weightings, and that seems to have been done. You asked me to time, and it is a reasonable request to identify it. What the central government should've done, he's done it. It has approved the financing, the relevant heading has been entered in the CFP. However, the executing entity is the Municipality of Corfu and to be more precise, the Municipal Corporation of Water and Wastewater. This is therefore the competent body to auction and carry out the work. That is where you should go and ask what is happening, for the simple reason that we have already done what we have to do, that is to ensure funding.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the above Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House of Greeks organises and operates, twenty-eight visitors from the Foundation "Theotokos" from Ilioon Attica. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides]] Parliament also requested permission from a short-day absence abroad from 4 October to 5 October 2016 for participation in the Malta Maritime Summit. Parliament also requested permission from Anna Karamanlis for a short-day absence abroad from 3 October to 5 October 2016, for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u75	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. We move to the fourth with No 1322/26-9-2016 topical question of the second question of the Member of Parliament of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the reopening of the GP of the Association of Agricultural Cooperatives (ESA) Argolis "Esperides". Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u76	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, a month has actually passed since the fire and destruction - on the substance - of the milling and standardisation of the Argolida Association of Agricultural Cooperatives. Since then, little has happened. In essence, nothing is clear about whether or not the plant will be reopened, about what will happen to farmers' production, which was absorbed by the factory and poured out and what will be done with the workers in the factory, who are still pending after the proposal made by the Management of the Association for a six-month leave without pay. In particular, Minister, we would like to see the government's assessment and the specific decisions that it has taken on the issues we have raised and what it intends to do for the immediate reopening of the plant, for the full safeguarding of jobs, for the support of workers as long as necessary for the complete reopening of the plant and for the support of the incomes of small and medium-sized farmers. We want the measures, the timetable and how they will be implemented.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u77	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u78	Mr Colleagues, because we share the interest in the protection of workers in general, but also in this particular case, our Ministry convened a meeting on 21 September a week ago, in which representatives of workers and the company were present and, indeed, was present - from what I see in the Minutes - and Members of the SYRIZA Parliament, Mr Giolas. What emerged from this meeting was that the workers have been fully paid up until the meeting, that there is no record delay and that the corresponding insurance contributions have been paid. And it seems, as you have said, that ninety of the workers have requested leave without pay to facilitate the company, which is in consultation with the banks to finance the rebuilding of the plant so that it can function. There does not, therefore, seem to be any friction between the workers and the company in this matter. Let me add to you, because it is in the written text of your question, that there has also been a check to see whether there has been a violation of the fire safety conditions of the plant and it seems that there has been no such infringement. The conditions for fire safety were respected. So far it seems that the conditions of legality have not been violated and that there should be an agreement, as should be done at company level, on the future, involving the survival of the enterprise and the maintenance of all jobs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u79	Please, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor for three minutes again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u80	I do not question what you have and what you have said, Mr Minister. First of all, if the fire safety rules were to apply, the framework might have to be tightened up, because if all fire safety systems were in operation, the extent of fire and the extent of destruction and the life of the workers and residents of the area would be jeopardised. So you must see, if necessary, the institutional framework for the fire safety of factories and particularly of these kinds of factories. The second point, Minister, is this. There is specific information here, which is alarming. Firstly, the Union has transferred the production process to carry out its contracts in Cyprus. Did you know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u81	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u82	He's transferred them to Cyprus. One issue is that. Secondly, while it could justify the workers who worked at the factory, this concern about what will happen and how long it will take, the Union has moved not to employ the workers and requires them to get out of a six-month unpaid leave - because, at the request of the Union, this has been done and not at the consent of the workers - that is, it has put workers who worked at the offices of the Union and who have been working in different services from the issues relating to the production activity of the plant. How is that justified, Minister? Is there a question of changing working conditions, changing working relationships, redundancies, possibly exploiting the disaster that happened? Because it would be 'comprehensible' to the question of production workers not be able to deal with them because of the catastrophe. The rest of the people who worked at the Services? The ones who were dealing with the farmers' assurances? Why don't he get them to stay the way they do? What's the point and the cause? These issues have caused concern, Minister, and it is not just a question of when the Union will end up with the Piraeus Bank, which is being negotiated for funding, because it has already been a month and there is no light on the horizon. So the six-month unpaid leave requested by the company from the employees and forced them to take, seems to be not really in the real world. From this point of view, the government should intervene with the instruments of development law, with the financial tools it has, even limited, to support a factory for rapid reopening, which concerns a association of agricultural cooperatives, workers in the plant and farmers in the region, the wider area that absorbs and produces them. Indeed, because it is now orange collection, for example, the collection of citrus fruits, you understand very well and the concern that farmers in the region have about the future and what will happen. A third question, Minister, is this: Because it is precisely because there is this procedure, until something very specific has been tabled, the incomes of these workers who worked at the factory of production through the programmes that your Ministry has. Once there is a production activity of the Union, why don't you bring a percentage of that money, which it collects, so that at least they have an income and the incomes of the workers are supported and another part of the programmes that your Ministry has? These people must be income support for as long as it is necessary to reopen the factory and with the commitment, Minister - which you must demand from your Ministry - that all workers are re-entered, if they want it to be in the same way as the fire, without changing working conditions to the worst.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u83	Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u84	Mr President, if there are concrete proposals to improve and tighten the conditions of fire safety, I would be happy to see that with the relevant ministries. Usually these rules are set at European Union level and are protective. I cannot say whether there was something in this particular case that could be provided for in addition, but it is clear that every proposal that strengthens the safety of workers is positive. I had no information on the parallel operation in Cyprus. Once the company had guaranteed jobs, it does not seem bad to me for customers not to be lost, if there is a possibility of completeing production, to seek it. But I don't have any information. I can't tell you anything more about this. The main responsibilities of our Ministry, when that exists, are to bring workers and employers into contact and mobilise the state machine. That's what happened at this tripartite meeting. I see that it is not only the representatives of the workers who were present, and indeed their industry, that the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Farmers and Workers of Milk, Food and Drinks, but that the administration of the Argolida Association had also been called, because you are right to say in the written text of your question that it is also a question of feeding and producing. It is apparent from the practice of reconciliation that workers are not blackmailed in order to be put on leave without remuneration and that they have not been made available. I understand that in many cases, in fact, there is a similar pressure and it is virtual that workers' declaration should take such action. I repeat, however, that this was not the case in the negotiation before the Ministry of Labour. It is true that the Secretary-General, who was present, in his final statement, asked the employer to provide the workers' representatives - I read his statement - anything relating to their compensation course, because the company was insured and also when its functions would be fully restored. There is no question of re-creating workers, because no one was fired. Even those who have been put under unpaid leave have legally maintained their previous status. It therefore appears that all jobs have been maintained and that this need for a temporary cessation of operations is present until the operations of the firm can be restored. As I see it, there does not seem to be any issue of rights problem. But it is true that if any complaint is made we will consider it further.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u85	What about the question of workers in these six months, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u86	There are programs. We'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u87	You didn't answer anything specific.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u88	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you can discuss outside the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u89	It is not a matter outside the House, Mr President. It's not a question of having coffee and talking about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u90	Can we force the Minister to answer? We can't, that's why I'm saying it's out of Parliament. We move to the sixth Question No 1276/19-9-2016 on the second question of the Parliamentary Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Chryssolou Katsavria - Siropoulou to the Minister of Health, on the prospects for the more effective operation of the Centre for Natural and Medical Restoration (KEFIAP) Karditsa. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Paulakis. My colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in the town of Carditsa, but also in other cities in the country, thirty-one center of physical and medical rehabilitation operates. These are the former CECEE, which were incorporated into the National Health System by Articles 10 and 11 of Law 4025/2011. With Article 13 of the same law, these centres, CEFIs, are in a scientific, nursing and functional connection to hospitals to which they are subject and come to fill a large gap in our society, with regard to special treatment and rehabilitation services and to disabled people. The KEFI of the General Hospital of Carditsa is housed in a two-storey building of seven hundred and eighty-four square meters, fully equipped and modern specifications. Unfortunately, from 1999 until now, Minister, it has not been appropriately exploited, with the result that a structure that has had all the specifications to be a model treatment unit has been presented with an abatement picture of significant damage and damage, especially in the hospitality of the patients, while at the same time it has a large number of, worthwhile and specialized equipment that remains in use. In fact, Minister, it is regrettable that I have been faced with this area. Also, the staffing needs of the service are not adequately met, so that it is unable to serve all the categories of people in need of it. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that while the provision of health and hospitality services, offered by the CEFI, is of high quality and attractive to patients, the system followed, concerning the reimbursement of costs incurred by the CEFI for health services, through the CEFI, operates dissuasively. Furthermore, in order for the CFP to respond substantially to its role, legislative arrangements, Minister, should make it possible to interconnect all health and welfare structures in the county in order to facilitate coordination of their actions. I ask you this question, as CIPIs are a highly beneficial and ambitious project aimed at people with personalised needs who, in order to serve, require costly treatments. So I ask you, Minister, and I would like you to answer what action the Ministry of Health intends to take in order to solve the serious problems that have arisen and to ensure the necessary conditions for the complete and effective functioning of the structure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u92	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Katsavria, I will answer you with full honesty. The issue of CFP has started and we've been concerned lately, because you know that in life some things are first and some things are second. When you have received a health system, which has been left to his fate for six years and has dissolved the universe, first of all, you try to balance the structures where there is a great need. If we hadn't appointed a thousand two-two auxiliary doctors in the system from October to May, the universe would have been broken down. From there on, it's not that we haven't dealt with anything at all. I'm just gonna say a couple of words about the CFDs. Unfortunately, the very large part of the restoration in our homeland is practically kept by the private sector. And that's not random, but conscious. In the 1990s and 2000s they built many such structures with an expensive equipment throughout Greece and some are completely empty. All that happened, that is, was that the contractors and politicians who gave it to them and left. And from that point on, they didn't care if they did. Some have operated with STAGE programmes, with European programmes. And when the program's over, those structures are closed, too. Others have been hated by people who used to work at CECYME or by some who moved from hospitals after incorporation. Because they joined the hospitals and left them in their luck. Seven years had to be appointed a permanent man in hospitals. To be serious and substantial, what we are planning is the following. We have agreed on a part of the people who will be recruited as permanent from the third proclamation - which concerns a thousand two hundred people and the eight hundred are nursing staff for Athens and Thessaloniki mainly the other specialities - to proceed to a massive and classified hierarchy of physiotherapists, therapists, various employers and other specialities, for a task specifically in CEFIAP, who work and put forward some that do not work. That's what's gonna happen. Because if you do not create the infrastructure, you cannot take on the work that the private sector is currently doing through the private rehabilitation centres or individual colleagues. That's the situation. It is therefore within the planning that a substantial part of this notice should be given to strengthen the functioning of these two hundred people. We are also thinking of strengthening the codes of some hospitals in relation to the operating costs, where these are involved. There are new buildings which are damaged because in the ten years that have been built, they have not worked. And, you know, there's the damage of uselessness. That is the situation, and that is what we intend to do. In this design, it's also the Cardinal that works. And to answer another specific question, which is about what I am talking about, namely the bureaucracy rot. Be careful to understand what they've done. You take the structure and stick it to the hospital, which has an automatic contract with EPPY. But the CFP doesn't have one. So they put people in a huge suffering. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] This is now changing with the benefit regulations. And that's why he's late. Because so far the story has been that even in a public structure such as this should go to do physical treatments, etc. and pay the patient from the EOPY. This is done in private rehabilitation centres. For example, a control mechanism came in so you don't pay the center directly, but the patient is also paid, so that you can control a situation. The point is that it is clear that hospitals' contracts should automatically cover the structure that belongs to them for the financing of the EEA. In other words, as EOPY pays closed structured hospitals in hospitals, they should also be submitted by CIFs, where each hospital belongs the corresponding documents together with the hospital hospitals at the EEA with a distinct code, so that they are paid. And that thing will happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u94	Here you go, Mrs. Katsavria, you have the floor again for three minutes to get a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. We await the actions of the Ministry for the Support of the CFP, since the aim of all of us is to better manage and exploit these structures which have been made with the money of the Greek people and are aimed at him. It is, in fact, regrettable for public buildings to be damaged by use and modern equipment to remain untapped and untouched in its original packaging, how much more so when we talk about structures of a social nature, which have the potential to offer important services to people with disabilities and their families. Minister, the rehabilitation and rehabilitation sector, as you have said, must be dealt with with with absolute political priority and not just a privileged investment area for the private initiative. The role of CFPs is very important. And we need to find solutions to make all these structures at all levels functional. They should be strengthened by adequate and qualified staff so that they can do their work qualitatively and satisfy as many people as possible with specific needs. The signature of the necessary contracts should allow CVMPs to provide highly high-cost treatments for special treatments, requiring only the supporting documents enabling the patient to receive this treatment. And then the CFPs are compensated through EPPY. It's what you said. This is a very serious issue, which is constantly raised by the parents and families of these people. This process is less bureaucratic and extremely attractive to the insured. The management of the General Hospital of Carditsa has submitted relevant suggestions and suggestions, highlighting the need to simplify these procedures. And for your information, I will submit correspondence from both the previous administration and today, regarding the movement and needs of the Carditsa CCI. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Chrysula Katsavria - Sioropoulou, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned correspondence, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] For uninsured people to point out that the EOPY compensation framework has not even been clarified since, according to its local regional addresses, there is no possibility of being recognised by the whole system of services by the existing structures. Finally, consideration should be given to the possibility of interconnecting with the ESS of all structures - CEFIAP, Rehabilitation and Rehabilitation Centres for Children, the former JEPs, Chronic Disease Therapies, etc. - in accordance with Article 14 of Law 4025/2011, in order to facilitate the coordination of their actions, but also to optimise the flow of patients from closed hospitalisation to intermediate rehabilitation structures. Minister, I am sure you will look at the issue with sensitivity and take immediate action to give the best possible solution for strengthening and upgrading the Cardiff CPVO and all CPVO. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u97	Mr President, I have nothing to add. I think I said it before. All I'm going to say is there's a clearing circular coming up. Unfortunately, the services have been taught for so many years to say 'no'. In saying 'yes' they are not learned. About what you said about uninsured people - for the rest I answered at first - comes out a clarification circular. Because when we say that we cover uninsured people, we mean that we cover them with all their medical expenses and need. So it comes out a number of clarificational circulars and what you're saying. Indeed, they do not have a problem elsewhere, but in other areas they have a problem. There is also the responsibilities of employees, "we don't know if they're covered" etc. It is predictable that the government will meet the health and care needs that these people have, regardless of whether they maintain their insurance capacity or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Minister. We move to the ninth under number 1270/14-9-2016 up-to-date question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Union of Centres Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Health on the staff of the General Hospital of Thessaloniki "Papagorgios". Mr. Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the Papageorgiou Hospital of Thessaloniki is a legal person of private law, a nurse enrolled in the HSH, and informs in the health map of Thessaloniki as a hospital pylon and, very often, without a satellite hospital. Its average completeness is one of the highest in the YES pan-Hellenic, with the burden of increasing from the refugee flows and while it has already developed and operates a hundred seventy beds in addition to the original design. At the same time, special beds, eight of the twenty of the intensive care unit and four of the fourteen surgical rooms, are unable to be staffed, with everything that affects the patient's health and public interest waiting lists, due to the existence of two hundred eighty-eight empty organic posts in all nursing, paramedical and other staff specialties and sixty-two specialist posts, forty-five of which come from resignations, Minister. And their announcement will not be charged with the state budget. In addition, the possibility of voluntary transfer of personnel provided by Law 4052/2012 to clinical departments, universities and NSAs, which have been transferred and operated since 2014 in Papageorgiou and can directly support the hospital, also without further financial burden, remains frozen, maintaining the low-level staff. In view of the above, you ask, Mr. Minister: What care does it intend to take to direct the hospital who, according to the information provided by Supervision III, bears 50% of the health movement over the total of fifteen hospitals? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u100	Thank you. The Minister has the floor, Mr Paulakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr Saridis, for the question, because you are giving me the opportunity to say two or three things. You will all remember that last year there was a homogenisation at the media level of Thessaloniki in relation to the sub-funding of "Papageorgios", in relation to the accumulated debts of the EEA to "Papageorgiou", in relation to the coverage needs of the staff of "Papageorgios" etc. And various factors came out over and politically and swore to faith in the public health system and "Papageorgiou" particularly and criticised the "bad" government, which does not deal with it. But, first, I did not see the same homogeneity when, for the first time in many years, last year, Papageorgiou was funded by the EEAY around 30 million euros, when my predecessor, on his day, had not taken any money. Secondly, I did not see the same homogeneity when we increased the amount and by our own political decision from 34.5 million to 37.5 million of state funding in Papageorgiou to meet the needs of his staff's payroll. That didn't come out to the media. And this continued this year. It was given in 2015 and is now given. And this year the EEA has given and will give more. What I have not seen at all, however, is that, for the first time in time, Papageorgiou has no debts on its suppliers. Do you know that? You who are a Thessalonician know that? You know that. Why didn't you come out and say it? When he had the debts, you all kept it. Now that EUR 67,895.925 has been granted, and at the moment Papageorgiou has no debts on the suppliers, why do you not say so? And do we have the argument of destruction and collapse? Thirdly, regarding staff, it follows from the previous question. From October 2015 until April 2016 in “Papageorgiou” they have been appointed, i.e. they have undertaken a service, eighteen supplementary doctors. Do you know that? Aren't eighteen supplementary doctors aids? It's one-third of those missing. When did we see it again? You want me to tell you the specialties? Cytology, Pathology, Pathology, Surgery Thoracic, Gastroenterology, Anaesthesiology - the second did not come, twenty approved, eighteen went - Haematology, Medical Biopathology, Paediatrics, Cardiology, Radiotherapy Oncology, Radiotherapy Oncology, Radiodiagnostic, Radiodiagnostic, Children's Surgery, ORL, Medical Biopathy, Children's Surgery, Paediatric and another Pathologist oncologist did not go. Sixty-two were gone eighteen, plus six permanent posts from the seven hundred sixty hirings we made. It's a second Pathology, a second anesthetics, a second Gastroenterology, a second Pathological Anatomics, a second Cardiology, a second Radiotherapy Oncology. It's six permanent doctors' seats to strengthen the operation of the hospital. That is what we are doing, Mr Colleague, except that the veil of darkness and the account of destruction, for example, opens a nose to some mountain, to some curse and is not next to the ambulance, we will make it a central issue on the news. Here we gave 67 million, and we put off the debts, we gave him 30 last year and about 15 this year, and he will get more from the EEA, when I repeat my predecessors had not given a franc for three years, we have increased funding from the state budget, but they are not saying so. So we will continue and the truth is not hidden.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u102	Please, Mr Saridis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u103	I'll be very brief. Are you fighting us, Minister, because we are not shouting that Papageorgiou has paid its suppliers? I don't think that's the right thing to do. First of all, that. Secondly, did you not answer the question: is Papageorgiou being subordinated?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u104	The whole of Greece is subordinated.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u105	Is it subordinated? The question is 'Papagorgios'. Clearly all Greece is subordinated. What are you going to do...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u106	The questions to be asked here, to your colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u107	You rule, my Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u108	We helped...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u109	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u110	They have taken their responsibilities, Minister, and are where they stand for what they have done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u111	Mr. Loverdos, Mr. Georgiadis and Mr. Vorides, the questions, not me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u112	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u113	You are there to give solutions, Minister. You're there to give solutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u114	We're giving.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u115	Please answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u116	Is it subordinated?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u117	It is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u118	What are you thinking about doing on this? There's a design.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u119	I've answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u120	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u121	Not both of us together, like on TV. He asks one of us, and we give the Minister the floor. Minister, would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u122	Yeah, let me have a word. This question is addressed elsewhere, not to us. For the first time, after seven years, we are appointed permanent staff and we are also supporting hospital staff. So within the framework of which we are planning for all of Greece in this context is also supported by Papageorgiou. I think I told you before.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u123	We move to the seventh under No 1274/16-9-2016 topical question of the second question of the Member of the Potamiou Lassis Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health, on problems in the field of mental health. Mr. Xanthos will answer the timely question. Please, Mr Barriotta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, Minister. The subject of mental health reform is a matter that has a long history and we have discussed it here too many times. It is essentially a debate that is taking place in continuity with the Minister. Very briefly, from the Columbia and the incarceration of the 1980s and the 1990s and the bad images, the passage to a modernly detachable psychiatric care has in Greece fifteen years of very important steps and fifteen years of incredible waste in time, resources of human and material and corruption. It is one thing that has been going all these years together, but it has led to very great progress in dealing with psychiatric patients. Unfortunately the government did the first thing it did practically by taking over power, in structured steps as evidenced, is the complete abandonment of psychiatric reform in Greece. The first sign was the transfer of the date of the closure of PNA, the Psychiatric Hospital of Athens and the famous Psychiatric "Lebet" in Stavroupolis of Thessaloniki, where in a recent debate in this Chamber on 8-3-2016 the Minister stated that for the three psychiatric hospitals the renegotiation of the end date is promoted, due to the general lack of material and human resources and mainly due to synthetic reactions by the next trade unionists - I would add - as it is very recent and well known the way in which the commander of PNA was unleashed, which was trying to complete the reform in accordance with the commitments of the Memorandum of Andor-Lukourenzou, which at the same time was also finally abandoned. There was then an announcement of the review - and we do well - and the creation of a committee, for which all we know is that it went a nice trip to Brussels, a tour of what it proves to be, since neither is there, nor has we ever learned anything about negotiation or renegotiation, nor a new memorandum. The last thing we learned was the letter of Commissioner for Health Neils Muiznieks, following his visit to Greece in July. It's a letter that personally made me ashamed and angry. It embarrassed me with the very glamorous descriptions - which we know, of course, in Greece - of the miserable conditions that it encountered both at the Psychiatric Hospital and other institutions throughout the country. It describes shortcomings in staff, misrepresentation conditions, staff problems in a very mudsome and decisive way. It mentions the deaths associated with weaknesses in hospitality and problems, the fire in Dromokaitio and Dafni. It made me angry, because he also underlines that there is still a psychiatric hospital in Greece today, where psychiatric patients are incarcerated on a 24-hour basis in "cages", he says. The word is 'cages'. It made me angry, because he underlined in the most undeniable way that nothing has been done about psychiatric reform in Greece over the past year and a half. In fact, he is rescinding the government after his visit to Greece, for there is no progress at all. Indeed, it attaches to the proclamation of the rights of people with disabilities living in the community, produced by its office in 2012 with the ironic, in my opinion, pointing out that it will help the government to plan its next steps. Minister, questions with psychiatric reform become relentless. What are we waiting for in the market meetings? Is there a plan? Is there a timeframe? Is there a different philosophy? In the psychiatric community there are substantiated - to the extent that they are documented - and opposing opinions in relation to demolition, division, the general way in which psychiatric reform should be carried out. Do you have another point of view? Do you want to implement another policy? Because so far we haven't seen anything at all. Was there a renegotiation? What was the draft that you submitted - if you have submitted something - and what is the response from the European Commission? Because at the moment the official response of the European Commission that I have is posted on the site is that you have done absolutely nothing. No negotiation, but absolutely nothing. I really wish you'd disprove me. And given that, why did you give up on psychiatric reform? What is the alternative to these people in crisis, who are the weakest and most vulnerable part of the patients in the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u125	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u126	Mr President, this is a very important issue and it needs a lot of discussion. Three minutes is a few. Dear colleague, you do not follow matters. And indeed, unfortunately, all you do is adopt the publications of the most extreme and popular yellow press in the country. That's what you're doing. You don't keep an eye on the developments. As far as I understand it, you are defending the Lykourenz-Ador Pact, that is to say you are defending its time, the preconditions for the psychiatric reform to be effective and complete, to close the three remaining psychiatric hospitals - that I understand from your position - as well as Mr Theodorakis' spectacular work, which we have suspended and, if we have not done so, the psychiatric reform would obviously have been completed. That's about what you told us. But that was 'dead', it couldn't work. There has been no prediction of what will become about four hundred years of patients who are currently treated in these three psychiatric hospitals. No service had been developed in the community to welcome them, such as guesthouses, boarding houses, sheltered apartments. The necessary recruitments had not been made, there were no resources. So that was the pact that we went to the beginning of next year, 2016, and we closed it, Mr Colleague, with the European Commission. We closed this openness without a nose being opened without imposing any fines, without any negative references being made. Do you know why? Firstly, because we presented a strategic plan. I give it to you to read it in detail, as it explains all the philosophy, perception and steps of this psychiatric reform, until it is completed. [[At this point, the Minister for Health, Mr Andreas Xanthos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Secondly, we have tabled a preliminary draft of a very important administrative reform in the health system which has now accepted the comments of the Legislative Committee and I believe that in October we will be able to legislate. The third important reason was that we had secured in the 2016 State Budget the necessary resources to continue caring for people who are currently hosted in decommissioning structures. Because of these three very critical political movements that this government has made, the Lykurenz-Andor Pact has closed, and of course it has opened up a new debate that says that we must go to a new agreement which, but this time, has the prerequisite for synergy with the Ministry of Labour and the concept of decoupling to be relevant not only to mental patients, but also to people, children in precarious establishments. We have started the debates. There is the person responsible, Mr. Svarge, who has come to Greece. We've made conferences, we've discussed the business plans, and we're now with the Ministry of Labour in a phase of a joint working group, which will present the business plan. That is what we are asking today. Strategic plan exists. What is needed is the business plan which includes these requirements, particularly with a view to universality, Community care and, of course, to universalisation. So this has been done. We have also advanced something that had to be done about a decade. In the notice, which is currently in the ASP, the thousands of six hundred nurses and other workers and the seven hundred sixty doctors we have already given, we have anticipated three hundred posts specifically for the area of mental health, psychiatrists and other health professionals. This is a huge advent of human resources for the indeed problematic and disorganised public mental health system, which will also enable today's public structures to support, meet increased demand because of the crisis. We know very well that demands have increased, needs have increased, involuntary nursing has increased, the prevalence of major depression has increased. That's what the literature says. We are trying precisely these developments and these emerging needs to integrate them into politics.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u127	You have a second language, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u128	We also have a ready-to-date reform plan for the whole country, with emphasis on the Lefkapedi area, to address the problems and malfunctions of the current on-call system in the Attica basin, where in particular the prosecution orders accumulate in very few hospitals, burdening their operation. Also, what we are promoting is, by making use of European resources, by making use of the funding from the new NSRF, about EUR 40 million from the European Social Fund, to fund new boarding, public boarding, to prepare for the gradual transition from asylum care, to finance hostels for heavy autism cases, to upgrade two psychiatric structures - penitentiary stores in Athens and Thessaloniki, to strengthen the KYSPE. We are well aware of their dual role and therapeutic role, but also of the developmental and re-entryal role for patients. Also strengthen home care, home care services which were completely excluded from the previous period from the financing of the NRP. That's where the game is today. There is the problem of the people of the'revolving door'. And it has been shown that home care reduces over 30% of relapses and therefore hospitalizations. Additionally, mobile units will be financed with enhanced pediatric support, dementia and Alzheimer's structures with day centres and end-stage structures and, of course, - that is the most important one - will be financed by the new NSRF, the sectoral programme of the Ministry of Administrative Reform, a very important intervention that is the mechanism for assessing and controlling the quality of all structures and public and legal persons under private law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u129	Mr Barriotta, you have the floor for three minutes again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u130	I could answer you with one question, with one word alone and that is it. When? I have been tired over the past two years of hearing extremely good analysis of operational plans under way. You blamed me, first of all, for not following. I have to admit that the Ministry's meetings, if they take place, and your intra-group concerns, I cannot follow them from reality. I will see, indeed, with interest, one and you have tabled it in the Minutes, the strategic plan you have initiated, and I would also like you to tell me where else you have tabled it, if it is available and where.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u131	In the Communion. And he also received approval.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u132	Because you also accused me of following the papers of the yellow press, the first observation would be for a yellow press to search your party, as your party body made me the honor of "hacking" me the other day. Is that right? One is that. The second thing I'd really like you to say is if the letter from Niels Muizniks falls under the category of the yellow press. It has a date of August 17, 2016 and has no reference to any plan and any discussion. He has references to shortcomings, to concerns, he has somewhat ironic advice to the Greek Government and no reference to any kind of dialogue that is under way. This is the reality pictured by the European Union a month back. If, in fact, you have testified what you say you have testified, it would be good to testify to us and the evidence that you have actually testified. From there on, I have to say that there is an important factor in this life the real time. I am constantly listening to bills that are here - whether mental health or hospitals - and permanently appointments, which are in the AACC. Accepted positive! Let's see. When? You are about to reach the middle of a government term by combining your two governments and the production of your Ministry in areas of legislation and reforms that the system needs is about zero. We hear and hear about appointments again. I'll see you later. There'll be more time in the next round. But there is a huge problem of real time. Things can't wait. The Psychiatric Hospital is in miserable condition for many reasons. I started my speech recognizing that there are huge problems and a very problematic past, a huge waste of resources - human resources and economics - and time. It's the question from now on. This is the first time - and I am glad that you have done so - that you will gladly and without rotation admit that you do not agree with the way in which it had been designated. Good! It's your right. So far, however, we have heard of renegotiations, 'we will see' and 'we will see it again'. Questions from here on this are important. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] The Ador - Lycharezu Pact had a specific funding. It was 180 million, a large part of which has not been disbursed by the NRP. I said a place, Mr. Mada. You also mentioned that there are plans to join the NSRP, which is the other one. Has funding been provided for the reform? I mean from the European Union. Is there anything for granted? I'm coming back here. He says nothing here. This is the printing by the Commissioner responsible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u133	Good, for the Minister to answer, Mr. Barriotta.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u134	There's another important issue. You'll give me a minute. He says nothing here. This is the last printing we have from the committee. Is there anything else? Since you have referred to the press and the yellow press, the questions are specific. The Ministry made a announcement, which was a fine exhibition of ideas about the problems of the area of psychiatric reform. Questions are therefore specific. I will table an indicative decision, which without a clear reason revises the remuneration of certain companies. It seems that some mental health corporations needed more and fewer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u135	Finish, Mr Barriotta!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u136	Just a minute, Mr President, it is important.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u137	Everything you say is important.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u138	There is a specific law of 2013, which includes very specific steps to be taken to assess and compensate for the costs of NGOs and mental health companies. So I ask you, in the review that was carried out at the Ministry, which may have been necessary, and which bears the signature of Mr Giannoulatos, has the 2013 law been respected? The other question I have - and it is very important - because I hear from people here that Mrs Skokoulis's 2013 law is difficult and problematic and very difficult to interpret, have you thought about changing the law with something different? Will you make him easier?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u139	Stay in the question mark, Mr. Barriotta. You've taken twice as much time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u140	I would just remind you - and I am ending with this - that in this way, the costs of NGOs came to 50%, from about 100 to 50 million a year and it seems that we are reinstated. Are you going to change the law with something easier, to say schematically, or something more difficult?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u141	The Minister will answer. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u142	Thank you. It's true that you're not watching things. Muiznieks is not a Commissioner for Health, but a European Union Commissioner for Human Rights. It does not deal with the substance of the plans for psychiatric reform itself, so it does not make any reference either to the Ador-Lukourenju Pact or anywhere else. It emphasises - and this is his job - whether the human rights of mental patients are respected and makes very important observations. Mostly these relate to the most extreme and problematic images that the public mental health system currently has: Lehanos, Korydallos Prisonry Psychiatric Hospital and some very difficult parts of the Psychiatric Hospital of Attica. It commends our initiative to reform the administrative organisation of the system and makes recommendations, as a matter of course, because we are precisely in the sense of transforming asylum and completing the psychiatric reform, we have already incorporated them into this draft which we hope to discuss in October in Parliament. This draft strengthens the rightful logic and the committees. In each sectoral health committee in thirty-eight parts of the country, committees are set up to defend the rights of patients. So that's the reality. You said that we have a problem of timing, we say things and they don't happen. I hope that you do not question what all Greece knows today, that after six years of permanent workers in the public health system have started and been appointed for the first time. I shall refer to this later in the debate on the timely question of the PASOK. I hope you do not question that, for the first time after 2010, permanent positions of ESS doctors have been declared in the system and we fortunately have multiple applications and it seems to be reversed by the current of scientific immigration abroad, or at least there is an interest in doctors who are abroad and now deposit their papers. I hope you do not question that, with the EUR 400 allowance we have given to three hundred barren regional hospitals, the staffing in short-term vacancy in difficult island areas has increased. On islands that had to see a doctor for three and four years, these days have been appointed doctors.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u143	Tell us about the Ministry's decisions and the NGOs!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u144	I will tell you this and the question by my colleague will be followed. Don't worry! Adequate answers will be given. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] So there's a plan. Obviously, we want the psychiatric reform to be completed, but this cannot be done by authoritarianism, arbitrary, without the minimum conditions of success of such a step. These weren't last year. We just want to agree with Europe, the consolidated steps that will be taken in the coming period. These will be described in the business plan that we process. The strategic plan says in detail the objectives, the process, the perception, the philosophy. I wish there were indeed a sense of constructive criticism, but it seems that you too have given in to the unbearable charm of populism and its lightness, let me say. The Ministry has been consulted for the first time with all the scientific bodies in the field of mental health, with all health professionals with a committee of twenty-eight members, who have worked out the strategic plan and are onoing and feedback the Ministry with interventions and plans for any change to be made, from the sectionation to the change in the method of costing and evaluation of structures.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u146	When...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u147	Please, Mr Barriotta, do not interfere.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u148	That is the procedure we are following. We are consulting, the draft we have put into public consultation has been passed by the Legislative Committee, we are doing the final work and it will take its way to Parliament. It is for the first time a very critical intersection in the management of the health system. It strengthens decentralisation, strengthens the participation of recipients and their families, strengthens transparency and will help reinitiate the vision of psychiatric reform in reliable terms.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u149	Thank you. We are now continuing with the timely question of Attica MEP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Ioannis Giokas...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u150	Mr President, I have the same question to Mr Blonde on the same subject. Shouldn't we talk about her now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u151	Can we unify them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u152	It's just about the same thing. Can I and the Minister wait?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u153	Is that the exact same thing? Then why did you ask a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u154	It's related.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u155	There's a strange coordination with the other bank!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u156	Mr. Gioka, do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u157	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u158	Good, will now be discussed by number 6379438/23-6-2016 question and application for the submission of documents by MP II Athens, New Democracy, Spyridon - Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister of Health, on the provision of mental health services by AMKE, a civil non-profit company, with the financing of the Ministry of Health. Here, Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u159	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, we need to put things in order, so the people that are watching us can understand. There would be no room for any populism, as you said, and malicious publications to you, if you had only answered my first written question with very specific questions and very specific information, which was submitted three months ago. For the sake of your knowledge - and I would like an answer to that - you have chosen not to respond. So when the Minister does not answer specific questions relating to his office, there you can see that there is a lot of room for suspicion. I don't want to be suspicious to you at all. So you're not answering it. So, for what he's been responsible for, it's you. But now we are actually going to do this because people do not know well, Mr President, what the Lykurenz-Andor Co-operation Agreement is. What's that? Why did this thing happen? Was everything well-burned in mental health, Mr. Xanthi? Let me finish first. Don't interrupt me. When the investigation was carried out by Mrs Skoulis - I say this why we must mention Mrs Skoulis and not start again with charges of extreme right and mud, it is yours, left - it was revealed, Mr President, that in mental health there was too much money for the world to just understand. Mr President, the hairdressing, personal travel abroad. For all this, as you know, he's been intervening with a prosecutor who's investigating all these complaints. Then the European Commission decided to stop funding to Greece for mental health because it did not want to waste European taxpayers' money. In order to avoid such financing, the Pact has been signed under certain specific conditions. So what happened? He no longer paid the state what everyone asked, as he did until then, but on the basis of the patients who each mental health unit cured, served, took care of. In fact, a 15% profit was also anticipated, although they are non-governmental and non-profit-making. However, I am telling you that 15% of profits are also provided for in the agreement, after thorough costing has been made. This agreement has been passed by the European Commission. You come here and say that you have found them with the European Commission. The paper by Commissioner for Social Affairs, I would ask you very much to testify in the Minutes, where he says that you have checked how you paid the money and how you canceled the pact and that he has found it all clear. Do you have that kind of paper? For the Lykurenju-Andor deal, we need paper. It was approved by the managing authorities and decided by the European Commission. Do you have that kind of paper? I don't know. I haven't found it. But if you have it, I would ask you to submit it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u160	Sign the new pact and you'll get the paper.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u161	So now you don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u162	Of course we don't. But first of all, we have an agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u163	You will answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u164	So to be serious, you have an agreement with a department chief of the Commission, sir, a Mr. Swarts, and the Minister never speaks to the department officer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u165	Mr. Schwartz is the person responsible for matters...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u166	Let go, Minister. I know. You don't have to. Don't tell me. I know very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u167	Mr. Georgiadis,
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u168	The Minister speaks with the Commissioner and the agreement is closed with the Commissioner, not with the department. I'm saying that because you said we didn't follow them. We're watching them very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u169	Mr. Georgiadis, put in a question, answer the Minister, and then you have the denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u170	One second, Mr President. So we are open until this paper comes to the European Commission asking for all the money back, since the agreement approved by the European Commission has not been complied with. If that happens, I need a statement from you what you're going to do. If the European Commission asks us to do 150 million back, what will Andreas Blond do? To close, because you spoke very generally and I don't like general discussions, I will submit the following to the Minutes: Case one. Psychic Health Promotion Company of Epirus. I'm glad Mr. Maddash is here. You said, Mr. Colleague, you haven't had anything to do with the company since 2008. I have no objections. I don't want to question you. But in the Ministry of Health's address there is no change and you remain a member of the company. Whether you're busy or not is something you know. Whether you said or not your good conversation, Mr President, I will submit a document on the Minutes, because it matters to people to understand why we are here. Same number of patients, same per capita fee, i.e. patient, as agreed. Suddenly thirteen days before the program expires, one million more the company to which Mr. Mandas is a member. I'm sorry, Mr. Comrade, but I have to be suspicious. That's my job.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u171	You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u172	If only this company were to be the company, I would say "successful". But there's also the second company, not Mr. Manda this time. It is the company ‘DIODOS’. Another 1 million more. I will submit the documents, the previous decision and the decision of Mr Xanthos. Same number of patients, same per capita fee. Another 1 million more. This is where a Mrs Lytra, a SYRIZA official and a member of Mr. Xanthos' office, is involved. Then a third company, for which I shall submit a relevant document in the Minutes. Also a million more. Same number of patients. Same per capita fee. This is an advisor to Mr. Petropoulos, SYRIZA Deputy Minister of Labour, Mr. Theodoroulakis. And I have fifteen other cases for dentology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u173	Mr. Georgiadis, the questions have been answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u174	So, Minister, I want a clean and honest answer, because for the same number of patients on the same pay per patient, these people have taken each one of EUR 1 million more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u175	Mr. Georgiadis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u176	When we cut off the ESS of people and you go and give people who belong to your office or your parliamentary group or the other Minister, Petropoulou, of over 1 million, I want to understand why you have done so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u177	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u178	The review of populism concerns you 100%. But you, too, are the critics of political vulnerability and misery. That's it. For people to know what was happening, we had asylums in the country. We were internationally judged, internationally humiliated. To close the asylums, a very big effort began. They started progressive and left-wing people, people of mental health talking about the paradigm of psychiatry and about the need to go beyond the asylum and close Leros's college. With personal struggle against the social consciousness of the time, against social conservativeism, who wanted these people to be invisible from society and be locked up in the hellholes, this vision began to be implemented. At that stage under Regulation 815 of the European Union, it was chosen to support this effort beyond the state sector, which had incorporated immunityist logic and had inherent resistance to the system. So we gave the possibility to non-governmental organisations, of course, the country, not us...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u179	That's us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u180	The country enabled university teachers, people who had this culture, demilitarisation, to build urban non-profit companies, to serve them, to be able to absorb resources, to gradually move from asylum. That is how the process went ahead and important steps were taken, as Mr Barriots said. Of course, problems were created and a landscape, such as in the entire public life of the country, a landscape that was inextricably linked to the country's customer-political system. In 2004, dear fellow Member, there were twenty-nine AMD in the country and managed a budget of 30m euros. Do you know how many in 2009 New Democracy handed over? Sixty-nine and they managed a budget of EUR 90 million. Do you know what most of them were? Political friends of the New Democracy and a large part of them had nothing to do with the area of mental health. That's the truth. In 2013, after the fiasco of the previous period, where due to the memorandum cuts, it is the solution of the Lykurenjou - Andor Pact, and rightly financed the health system and the AMIE data with 180m euros, 75m from the state budget and 105m through the ESRB. A costing mechanism is being created to deal with phenomena, which nobody obviously ignores on the one hand and has no mood - at least we - to cover up. An issue of rational management of these expenditure was therefore raised. Firstly, exactly what money was provided for in the Lykurenz - Andor Pact, 105 million euros, not one more. Therefore, the press reports 'when hospitals do not have jaws and stitches, you give the NGOs 20 million' cannot be adopted by a former Minister of Health, who knows very well that the public health system has a market limit, defined in the medium term. It was 1,388,000 and we've done it 6,634,000. So, whatever we may have had from saving resources in other areas, they cannot go to the public health system. One, then, is that for the populism of this type. Secondly, the allocation of this money, Mr Georgiadis, has been made precisely with the cost mechanism that you have created. The payment of all expenditure was made by this mechanism and the percentage distribution in structures did not change at all or very marginally during the three-year period. I have here detailed data from the Ministry's final NSRF structure. They are signed by the chief of staff, Mrs. Dalaveris. I'm putting it down for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Health, Mr Andreas Xanthos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So the theory that specific structures, specific bodies, specific PMUs during our term of office, have been favoured is not the case. Your costing mechanism has been implemented and the allocations have been carried out in the same way during the three-year period. Evidently to close the NRP at the end of 2015, budget adjustments are made as usual, because there is the issue of regionality. Not all allocations of the ESRB at the same rates in all regions of the country. There are poor regions, such as Epirus, which receives a higher percentage.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u181	The rest in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u182	No, please. Please, too! The necessary adjustments have therefore been made without any favourable treatment, just to absorb resources. With regard to this infamous costing mechanism - the spectator, as you presented to us - it is not exactly like that. Of course, it may well have been a mixture of expenditure and it has been done - and it has to be done throughout the whole health system and throughout the country, and that is what we are doing at this time, in a very hard manner, in the public health system - but it has also created many side effects. It had an anti-therapeutic effect, Mr. Georgiadis. Because it favoured the stay of mental patients in boarding schools and not in sheltered apartments, which would be imposed by therapeutic logic, for these people to gain more autonomy. Why? Because AMC was paid with more money if he was in the boarding school. It did not favour moving the healer close to his relatives, because for the days that the healer was missing and went to his own people - and that is good, in order to re-enter and escape the immunity culture and the police logic - expenditure was deducted from AMD. So there was no motive for AMKE to mobilise him. There have been structures aimed at dependent refugees and immigrants and they have been asked for AMCAs to justify their costs. There were, therefore, structural and, above all, healing problems. That's the problem, but you're only interested in making impressions on a hunt of impressions to create a blow to the moral advantage of this party. You won't make it, Mr. Georgiadis. You will be exposed - and you are already exposed to what you say and do - to the world of mental health, to the people who are struggling, in fact, with nails and teeth and with honesty, because there is no collective responsibility. If there are AMKEs, as if there are public bodies, no matter what there are persons in the hard core of the state involved in corruption and scandals, they will obviously be controlled. We are currently evaluating the balance sheets of all three years and will be provided by the Psych health Department. In other words, you are now telling us that there has been a terrible collusion within the Department of Psychiatric Health, the final structure of the NRP, the Secretary-General and the ARGO network that represents all the structures. Does the ‘APPRO’ network have any reason, if there were any members who were thrown into sharing, coming out and supporting what we are doing? This intervention is not based anywhere. It really is not based anywhere and, above all, it has no concern for the real content of psychiatric reform, for the care of mental patients!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u183	Good, Minister. Mr. Georgiadis and all of you, try to manage the time. It's no different.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u184	Okay, and then, just a minute, people don't mess up. It's a serious matter. Minister, listen. It makes me a terrible impression that when a Member of the opposition is doing his duty and controls the Minister, and indeed for money, your first time is "you are a populist". First of all, where did you see me adopt the title written in the newspaper "First Subject"? Where did you see me adopt it? Did I mention it in my speech? Why do you answer me like that? I asked you a simple question, Minister. You spoke for twelve minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u185	That's what you relied on, Mr. Georgiadis. "THE FIRST SUBJECT" gives you the line. Unless you have other information...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u186	Don't interrupt me!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u187	Wait a minute, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u188	I have tabled a document which did not have "THE FIRST INSTANCE".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u189	Wait a minute, Mr. Georgiade!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u190	I'm coming and I'm going to testify more now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u191	You won't ignore me! I don't attend, and I salute here. I'm gonna run a situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u192	But the Minister is interrupting me. Are you making an observation to me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u193	I say it won't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u194	I have the floor. I didn't interrupt him. I'm interrupted, and you're observing me!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u195	I barely did. But you didn't hear me. I told the Minister not to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u196	Now I have the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u197	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u198	Mr Minister, in order to be informed, because you did not respond, I tabled documents from three non-governmental organisations to understand the citizen who is following us. You said you relied on our costing system. I have tabled the documents - I would ask the parliamentary authors to take them and check them - where you have given them from almost one million more - to another 1.2 million, to another 1.8 million - with the same number of patients and the same price per patient. I asked you to answer me because for the same number of patients and at the same price per patient you have given a million more and I asked, because I have to ask, because it seems to me that these are declared SYRIZA parties in various ways. What can we do now? Shouldn't I ask you not to be sad or call me populist? But I'm actually coming. You left insinuating the waste that happened in the previous period and in the New Democracy. Pano Papadopoulos, you know him. The name Panos Papadopoulos tells you something. For your own government, if you ask me, I haven't found this yet, because I don't want to be looking for free. Mr. Pano Papadopoulos, do you know him?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u199	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u200	You know him. He's your director. He's your partner. We have a series of decisions on our own governments and PASOK, which were financed by statements from Mr Papadopoulos, as a scientific officer. I don't say on the contrary. So don't blame your own people - and your manager, for waste. It's not right! However, I am actually coming to the point, because you have not answered at all and you will not get away from it. I want you to tell me specifically why you went to these non-governmental organizations and gave more money to the same number of patients. That's the question. Because you mentioned the final structure of the NRP - I would forget it and thank you very much - the law said that it should have been established by 24-4-2015. I'm looking to find her recommendation document and all I found is a 27-6-2016 document. But that is extremely problematic, why? Because in the interim between May 2015 and June 2016, I have found hundreds of documents to which a final ESRB structure has referred, but it has been set up, after these documents had been signed. I would like to say to you, and I would very much ask you to submit to the Minutes, when the perfect NSRP structure was established, because otherwise, all the documents approved by the NSRP final structure from February 2015 to June 2016, which is its only recommendation document, are void, are all in the air, are all illegal, unless I have not found the paper. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In this case I apologise and expect you to submit it in the Minutes. Was the legally established NSRP structure, as envisaged by the law, up to 24-4-2015, or for reasons of various you know, was in fact established on 27-6-2016? If what I say is true, Mr President, it's all in the air. I am sorry - and I will close - but, Mr President, the Minister made a reference to the great progress and the major steps taken in the country from 2000 until today. Indeed, by the Minister of Alekos Papadopoulos, by the Minister of Stephanis, Nikitas Kaklamanis, Dimitris Avramopoulos, Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulou, Andreas Loverdou, Andreas Lykourentzos, my own, Maki Voridis, Andreas Xanthi now or Panagiotis Kouroublis, in order not to forget him, can you tell me from the steps you mentioned, which has been taken on your own days? Answer. None. You have not closed any of the asylums you are accusing yourself of. The Commissioner for Human Rights does not mention this, Mr Barriot, previously. He blames you indirectly but clearly because history has not been clarified with deaths in psychiatric hospitals. That's why we don't even find out what happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u201	Good, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u202	So all the progress you said was made on our own days. You came here, you said nice words, very nice words, how much you care for patients and how much it hurts patients. For the money you have not told us anything, as if we should not ask as Members of the opposition. It's illegal to ask. We're populists.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u203	Mr. Georgiadis...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u204	You say, too, if I were you, you wouldn't have asked. Mr. Paulakis may have an opinion on this. So I want a concrete answer, not generally caring for the patients, because at the AMPIs I submitted, you have given more money with the same number of patients. So thin is the question. I repeat to close it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u205	Mr. Georgiadis, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u206	In one person, Mr. Mandas, Mrs. Lytra from your office and the other counselor from Mr. Petropoulos. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u207	Mr. Georgiade, I want to say something. We have also overcome the nature of the question. The next step is to have a topic discussion at the psychiatric amphitheatre.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u208	For ten minutes, Mr President. Don't worry. It's just a simple question. Answers and we're closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u209	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u210	Mr. Georgiadis, to close it, I repeat that I have the elements of the perfect structure with the specific divisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u211	When was it set up? Can you tell me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u212	It's set up. Of course, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u213	Right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u214	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u215	Where's her recommendation paper?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u216	Now, you want me to find you where the paper is right now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u217	You'd have given it to me so long.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u218	I'll send it to you. Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u219	Mr. Georgiadis, you raised the questions you raised...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u220	Now you're telling me that there's no one in a ministry that was legitimately operating in the final...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u221	I'm going to make a new request for documents and you're going to file it. If there isn't, what are you gonna say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u222	Excuse me, but that's not the way to talk. I'm sorry, but it can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u223	There isn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u224	Can you prove that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u225	It's all in the air. There isn't. I've looked into it. You don't have to. It's all about "GENERAL", I'm looking for them and I find them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u226	Secondly, in 2015 what was in existence was a complete disorganization of public mental health services, because you and your friend Paul Theodorakis, who writes you texts, because you obviously don't know them, he writes them to you...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u227	It also gives it to the "CORDER COUNTRIES".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u228	He is the one who gives it to the "CORDER THEM", the one who writes you the "Black Bible" for the health of the New Democracy...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u229	I don't understand. Can't I have friends? Will you have the only ones?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u230	...and that, in fact, we feel proud, who was the first commander, that we managed from this old administrative establishment to remove him...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u231	About the money to talk about. Are we talking about Theodorakis and Hatzidakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u232	Mr. Georgiadis, please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u233	But the money to talk, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u234	But look at this. Are you going to impose a proclamation caricature? This can't be! This is a House! It's nothing else!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u235	But we're talking about money. We're not talking about Theodorakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u236	I'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u237	Talk to me about Hajidakis then!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u238	Please very much, Mr Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u239	It's not a TV window here. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u240	But tell us about the money.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u241	Mr Georgiadis, this is not the case. There is no such procedure. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u242	So we have taken a pact that had collapsed, and we have renegotiated it, making an initial agreement with the European Commission and that will go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u243	They don't have paper, though!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u244	You wish to fail - that is what you are saying - and you are asking me to say now, what we will do if it goes wrong and ask for the money back. They won't ask us for the money back. They even recognized the abandonment that existed over your days. Mr. Theodorakis had not predicted any staff recruitment, because he had in mind that he would close the PNA at the end of 2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u245	Are we talking about Mr. Theodorakis here? I didn't talk about Mr. Theodorakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u246	All right, all right. Ask...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u247	Mr. Georgiadis, what measures can I take now? Excuse me, but ignore everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u248	Two minutes. As far as the infamous money is concerned, I would once again say that it has not shared precisely the amount which has been set aside under the same ratios.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u249	After I've filed the paperwork.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u250	So I have an update. I may be wronging some companies to which you have referred, but because of the fact that Mr Christos Mantas is also in front, I shall refer in particular to the 'PROPHYHS', the psychiatric company that concerns the continent. In 2013, it was 1.85% of the total allocation. In 2014, 2.17%. In 2015, 2.97%. In 2016, 2.05%. Where do you see her privileged treatment, Mr. Georgiadis? Who gives you these evidence...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u251	Take the papers, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u252	...and especially who cooks them to create impressions? There goes this and we're done with this story.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u253	Can you tell us that in millions?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u254	Mr. Georgiadis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u255	Responses from the Scientific Committee shall be apostometic. That's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u256	After I testified it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u257	It's not true!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u258	Please, Mr. Georgiadis. This is a House! It's nothing else!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u259	Mr President, have I tabled a document stating that the company to which it refers has taken over EUR 1 million and that it tells me that it is not the case?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u260	But, if you'll excuse me, have you seen this procedure anywhere? Tell me where you saw her. So, your other colleagues from all parties, why don't they behave like this? I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u261	I said that at the end of 2015 adjustments were made, taking into account the need for regionality and the need to respect the ratios between the EIP and the ESDP. Adjustments have been made, as is done every time when the NRP closes, so that resources can be used up. These adjustments to the budget justify these discrepancies. We're done with this. But I would like to ask you, Mr Georgiadis, the main political question. We are with the public health system, with public structures, that will develop, using European resources in the next period. And of course, we will put in a framework in which all stakeholders and all bodies providing mental health services will move. What exactly are you with? What does Mitsotakis' opposition mean, Mr. Georgiadis, in the field of mental health?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u262	We're talking about money here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u263	Oh, no. These are the political questions. You demonize the NGOs, like we made them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u264	Minister, let me tell you something. You are replying to Mr Georgiadis, but you are addressing the Greek people and the Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u265	I have shown you that they have more than doubled over your days.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u266	Since your manager was making them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u267	Well, you're not ashamed now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u268	But I have the documents in my hands.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u269	Aren't you ashamed to use people who worked at the Ministry?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u270	Then why did you mention Mr. Theodorakis? For Mr. Theodorakis, why weren't you ashamed to report?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u271	Mr. Theodorakis is a political person. He was in the hospital.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u272	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u273	So, I'm ashamed to say about Mr. Papadopoulos and you say about Theodorakis? I don't understand! What are you, like, superior to others? And Mr. Papadopoulos is a political person. Minister, if you mention him, then we'll report too. Again, Mr. Papadopoulos was an advisor to all of you NGOs. And he's your manager. And he approved money.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u274	The process is over. Let's go to the next question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u275	He wasn't a consultant. He was seconded to the Ministry of Health. Leave her atrocities.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u276	And he wasn't working at a NGO in Thessaly?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u277	Stop picking up public officials of honor in your mouth.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u278	Was he working or not working in Thessaly?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u279	Where did he work?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u280	NGO in Thessaly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u281	To Larissa.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u282	The NGO had made him available to the Health Department to support him, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u283	So don't tell us so much outside the system! Don't tell us!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u284	Excuse me. Mr. Minister! Mr. Georgiades!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u285	So listen, why didn't you say a little detail?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u286	Please listen to me, Minister. You are indeed answering Mr Georgiadis's question. But you are addressing the House and the Greek people. That's no way to be chosen here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u287	Our most recent Mr. Georgiadis also concealed a very important detail. To proceed with the new costing mechanism, the Ministry of Health hired a private consultancy firm, which provided services in the order of EUR 1 million a year. This private company is the only change in the essence of our government. She stopped her contract.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u288	Congratulations!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u289	We were all told that the system would collapse, that there would be no cost, that the AMIs would not be paid, that patients would be without care, that workers would remain unpaid. None of these prophecies of the destructive, in which all of you have been striving at this time, have been confirmed. I think that the only ones who really have reason to incur us at this time are the particular private company, which may have lost part of a funding.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u290	Your political decision. No problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u291	So I say to you that at least Mr Barriotta and I have been able to have a substantive debate on the contents of psychiatric reform and its prerequisites. With you, unfortunately, this possibility does not exist. And to finish, Mr Georgiadis, the customer logic, corruption and involvement in Greece have a political name: PASOK and New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u292	Mr. Spirtzi, are you saying PASOK?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u293	Whatever you say, no matter what you say, this has been recorded in collective consciousness.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u294	I'm sorry! Mr. Spirtzi, do you say PASOK, Mr. Kurubli, you say PASOK?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u295	It has been recorded in collective consciousness.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u296	Your predecessor was Mr. Kourublis, PASOK Member and Secretary at PASOK. Did you forget?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u297	That's the end of the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u298	But would SYRIZA tell us about PASOK with his Kurublis predecessor? Mercy! All right! We don't have Alzheimer's in the country, some of us remember.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u299	You did the show!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u300	I find you very silent. You know what? You know what?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u301	This is the end of the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u302	Allow me to make a final political comment. SYRIZA's supposed scandals are like fireworks. They're launching your medium columns and you're reproducing them in here. But like all fireworks, they have a very short life span.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u303	You're not answering me!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u304	And it's coming and it's canceling. Your sins are certified with a name, registered and there are stalks of these two political spaces in prison.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u305	Well, that's it. He's coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u306	I would ask you, Mr Gioka, to reintroduce the debate to the spirit that is appropriate in the Chamber. So, next, it is the eighth under number 1284/19-9-2016 topical question by Attica MEP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Ioannis Giokas to the Minister of Health, on the huge problems of the anti-drug organizations. Here, Mr. Gioka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u307	Before I start the question, I propose that it be established by the Rules of Procedure one day, so that the New Democracy, SYRIZA and the other parties can come in here and get rid of corruption. Because they only disagree with it now, since they implement the same policy. I therefore propose that a day of parliamentary scrutiny should be established for all the others who are patiently waiting here for an hour or so to sit here ten and fifteen minutes with your own tolerance! That's what's been going on all this time!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u308	Mr. Gioka, wait a minute. First I asked for your consent...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u309	Mr President, you asked for our consent to take precedence over Georgia's question because it had a relevant subject. You didn't ask for our consent to be speaking here half an hour, to be unlucky with each other and to wait here!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u310	Let me tell you, Mr. Gioka. You must recognise the difficulty that the Bureau has, in exceptions and not in principle, impose the procedure. I'll agree with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u311	That is why I suggest that an extra day of parliamentary scrutiny should be introduced for all the others who are waiting patiently. That's what I'm saying!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u312	All right now, Mr. Gioka. I say I waited and expect you to make a constructive contribution.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u313	I contributed by giving my turn, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u314	I would agree with you that this is a parliament and not a 'American bar'. Okay? I agree with that. But you also help impose the procedure. There's no other way!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u315	However, I am not responsible for the procedure. I've been waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u316	No, but I got your consent so that Mr Georgiadis's question could be preceded. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u317	In any case, the issue of the topical question concerns, in our opinion, an extremely serious issue, on the one hand, with the closure of the entire structures of the CEDEFOP - and, on the other hand, I refer to the multi-diagno-diagnostic centres of the CEDEFOP which put a bundle a few days ago, on 14 September - and on the other hand, with the visible risk that the Street-Work mobile units in Athens and Thessaloniki will be closed down at the end of the year, due to the completion of the respective donation programme. Mr President, Minister, I will mention a number of critical elements which show the scale of the problem. For the first time all these years, a structure of the CEDEFOP closes due to lack of staff. And we are talking about a time when the problem of drug dependence is exacerbated, because of the crisis, the deadlocks, poverty, unemployment and all those phenomena that we live every day. We are talking about seven multi-powered psychodiagnostic centres, which for those who do not know, are double-diagnostic centres. That is, not only those who have a problem with dependence but those who have another mental illness, such as schizophrenia and anything. So this is a criminal policy. You are not the only ones responsible for this policy. The same policy was followed by the previous governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, and you continue with it. And as a result of this criminal policy, sub-financing and staff shortages, it is for us to come to the point for the first time - I repeat - to close critical and extremely serious structures of the CSTD. So the question is what measures will be taken by the Ministry immediately, now, and not to close these structures and not to close the Street work structures in Athens and Thessaloniki, which with mathematical accuracy will be closed at the end of the year. Also, the issue is what measures will be taken by the Ministry to ensure the necessary funding and recruitment of necessary staff and, of course, to ensure full competence in health and other materials with the renewal of equipment, the modernisation of infrastructures and the provision of free training programmes for workers. This is the subject of the question and we expect the Ministry to answer a specific question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u318	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u319	Thank you, Mr President. My dear colleague, I really feel bad about the delay. I think, however, that when the Minister and his colleagues are being indicted for the transparent management of public resources, it is reasonable to have the opportunity to give answers. You raise a very important issue. We've talked about it before. The crisis also aggravated the dependency sector - increased the incidents of addicted people, there were emerging dependencies - at a time when public structures were understaffed and underfunded. The specific seven centres of the CECH, to which you refer, were indeed a pioneering structure, which had as a population - the target patients with a double diagnosis, that is, dependants and have both psychiatric morbidity. They offered very good services. There was an external evaluation of this. In other words, there's a certification that this care was really qualitative. After the end of funding from the ESRB, there was a gap last year. In reality, however, the centres were not closed. The people of CEDEFOP took care of them. Just because they perceive the need to be followed up in care, these people, who were being watched, and their families at the same time, being covered, at least informally, by other structures of the CEDEFOP or referred to in the mid-term until an eight-month contract took place - kept this transitional gap a few months - or be referred to other mental health structures. And so, they were actually given the opportunity to continue their operation. That's what's gonna happen now. We have legislated to be able to get staff, for an emergency, for a short transitional period, and mainly psychiatrists with proof of service, with a block. Although I know the criticism of the flexibility of this employment relationship, it is an emergency solution to an urgent situation such as this. But the most important thing we've done is that we have a first-time notice after ten years. In the area of dependencies, staff notices have been issued for an indefinite period since 2006. For the first time, after ten years, we have called eighty positions, we have identified eighty positions specifically for the area of dependency. Thirty-five of them concern KETHES, twenty-five of OKANA, twelve of PNAH "18 UNO" and eight of the corresponding rehabilitation structure of PNTH. The CEDEFOP has its autonomy. He has announced these positions - I think the deadline has expired - and we have been assured that in a short time these people will be recruited. They will be trained, of course, and I think that by the end of the year they will be ready to help the structures of the JETD and possibly to assist in the operation of these centres. In the meantime there is a very big effort - elsewhere it is safer, elsewhere less - that the population, which was being watched in these structures, should not be left uncovered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u320	You have your dentistry too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u321	I shall conclude, Mr President. They are therefore served by other structures of the CEDEFOP that exist in the same cities and have made references - I have detailed references to the table - to other public mental health structures where there are corresponding specialities - psychiatrists and other specialities - to help them. And the last thing I have to say is that we have provided the new NSRF with a budget of around EUR 24 million, which will allow us to finance several new structures, multi-powered centres, we say, which will be able to cover the country more geographically, even in areas that so far have not had any anti- dependency services and to support such innovative actions, such as the CTEF itself, have proposed that three of them be integrated into our strategic plan and financed by the new NSRF in Athens, Thessaloniki and Heraklion. That's the plan. I think that the administration of the CEEC, which currently has the responsibility of completing the process and putting these workers in place, will proceed as soon as possible so that the world is not covered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u322	The rest in your dentistry, Minister. Mr. Giokas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u323	Mr President, Minister, I agree with your reply - I do not know if anyone who is in the Chamber draws any other conclusion - that the psychodiagnostic centres, which are admittedly performing a particular role, because - I repeat - they are dual-diagnostic patients, will not be reopened, at least for the next time. That's the conclusion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u324	Where do you get that conclusion from?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u325	I'll tell you. I draw the conclusion, Mr Manda, because the Minister said that the services and functions carried out by these diagnostic centres will be resolved internally at the CEDEFOP. That's what he said. That in a way these people, who are not settled, are already being arranged, and we have enabled the CTE to hire them with blocks. C.E.L.D. can't hire a tide. And that's not the point...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u326	Who said that? The House has said it can.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u327	Minister, I don't mean if she's legally able to hire. Legislatively he may have that possibility. The point is that, at the moment, the budget of the CEEC, with its sub-financing over the years, is not even able to guarantee that. And you didn't even promise the eight-month contracts, the ones that ended, to prolong them. So it comes to the conclusion that psychodiagnostic centers will not work in the next few years. Also, there is no guarantee that the Street Work units in Athens and Thessaloniki, which are threatened with the end of the year, will not be closed. Second matter. You referred to thirty-five recruitments that will take place in the next period. Do you know what the situation is right now at the CCEE? It's a hundred and thirty-workers...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u328	Do you know how many people they were?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u329	Mr. Mada, are you asking the question?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u330	Mr. Madda, what's going to happen now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u331	The previous question was about you, not her. A hundred and thirty employees, therefore, have been lost by the CEDEFOP since 2009. There are too many workers, who are currently on the limit of retirement. The average age, for example, at the CECH of Crete, you may know, is forty-five years. We are talking about people who with such employment relations, if there is no fixed employment, cannot do a very crucial, serious and special role that these structures have. So, how's it going to be? All of you are told that these thirty-five recruits, when they are made, with the good to do, are dropping in the ocean, in front of the shortcomings of the CITES, which has to cover a network of twenty-six cities and about eighteen penitentiary stores. And the Minister's answer is: 'Blue, hire me a block'. It is not just, Minister, the unacceptableness of this employment relationship. It is that it is not possible to stand up to such structures with staff recycling. There is no such structure, which is aimed at dependent people, who need special care, where experience is needed, and a worker must stay on board for many years, be treated with staff recycling and the solution you give them with blocks. That's the point. And you know what the matter is? If the whole thing had to do with budgetary adjustment, I would say that, in other words, with a policy that you are continuing with, which is being cut off by state benefits, which sacrifices people's needs for the debt to be paid, so that the tax exemptions for capital investment can be found for, for, if only that, it would be simple, in the sense not acceptable to us, in that we would oppose you on the basis of that. But we are very afraid, Minister, that this is not all. It is a conscious political choice to have people on the margin, to generalise the maintenance and substitution programmes that already exist, those who have to go to the private sector, which is gigantic in this sector - the private sector in the area of rehab is gigantic.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u332	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u333	And because you are also a defender, you are even saying that you are defending the public health system and public structures, the greatest proof that these are downgrading is that the private sector is also being giggled. This is done in the field of drug addiction.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u334	Good, Mr. Gioka.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u335	I conclude, Mr President, by saying this: it is therefore much more serious than just a matter of cost and budgetary adjustment. It is about a political choice, and the point is, of course, drug dependence as a phenomenon in this system of sepsis, exploitation, cannot be tackled.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u336	Okay, you were clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u337	However, the individual could be cured if there were such structures and healed and reinstated and claimed his right to work and dignity. And that's what you don't want in the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u338	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u339	The reasoning that we consciously despise programs, so let's say, CECT type to exist and push it into damage reduction and substitution programs, I can't watch it. I really can't watch him, and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u340	It is the reasoning of your policy, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u341	I said it's obviously not our choice. The blocks are an emergency solution to cover a situation which arises because the eight-month contracts cannot be renewed, Mr Colleague. They can't be renewed. That's what laws and writings say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u342	But they change.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u343	Do they change? You say they change.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u344	Mr. Gioka, you've heard too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u345	There are laws, there are presiding decrees on the ongoing contracts. There are rules. We should change them. If that really requires the timing and need of the health system to change them. Let us discuss this and we will also take such initiatives, especially for the recruitment of doctors and for their acceleration, where we find serious problems. But that's the situation today. The CCEE is a self-government organisation. He's making the recruitments, doesn't the state make them. We give him approval. So we gave him the approval, and he did not ask us for more money for the blocks you're talking about, and we are now waiting for it to make a specific distribution, approve and move on. The most important thing, however, is that we gave him thirty-five positions. Dog holes in the ocean, you say, 'cause they're more than a hundred gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u346	Not us, they say so themselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u347	Possibly. But in a period of drought in the health system, the drops also matter. Dodges in the ocean tell us about hires in the health system the rest. Of course, when more than twenty - twenty - five thousand are missing, the five - six thousand that we are currently pushing may be holes in the ocean, but it is enormously political that the constant trend of human resources is reversed. And you say many times and the word 'bumps', that is, we cannot go with patches, when a systematic surge of the health system has taken place for years and the patch has lost its value. So the CTEI tells us that by the end of the year these people will have been hired, they will be trained, so topics about the Street Work, which you say, are not raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u348	For psychodiagnostics?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u349	For psychodiagnostics, out of these thirty-five people can help there too. And that was already happening. Psychodiagnostic workers helped with the remaining structures of the CEDEFOP. There was a synergy. This will also be done in the next period, until a more permanent solution is given, I also believe, through funding from the ESDP. They have been positively evaluated, and that is why we do not question their necessity. There were problems in some areas, they did not work well, they did not respond to the world. It is the ERC's responsibility to make this reorganization and to distribute its powers, its human potential, in the best possible way. We support KETHEA, as we support all other dependencies such as OKANA, "18 UNO" and Thessaloniki's program at PNTH, because we believe that the dependant has the right to have holistic care and multiple options. We consider that the 'hots or substitutes' dilemma is out of reality. Every person personalized has other needs. That's what science says, dear colleague. Get a little busy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u350	The cure, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u351	Take a little care of the literature and stop reproducing preservatives, preservatives, reflexes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u352	How many are healed, Minister! That's what you'll answer. How many are healing!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u353	Listen, we've had this conversation before. Treatment and relapse rates are available in all programs. That's what the scientific world says. And what is needed is just at a time when the crisis exacerbates these problems, we give more opportunities, we meet people's needs with respect for their dignity.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u354	Thank you. I would like to say that what was preceded by Mr Georgiadis' question is not going to create an end in the Chamber because it can find imitators. Next time, at least I'll interrupt the meeting. We have no other way to react. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, we are adjourning the sitting for five (5') minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u355	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY Question No 22/16/10-3-2016 by Members of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARMAR etc. Friday of Christophilopoulos, Georgiou Arvanitides, Evangelos Venizelos, Athanasios Theocharopoulos, Vassilios Kegeroglou, Harulas (Haras) Kefidou, Yiannis Koutsouukoukos, Dimitrios Kremastiou, Odysseas Konstantinopoulos, Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, Andreas Loverdou, Ioannis Manatis, Theodoros Papatheodorou, Konstantinos Scandalidis and Michael Jelei to the Minister of Health, on the collapse of the National Health System. The first honourable Member to speak, Mr Eve Christophilopoulou, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u356	Ladies and gentlemen, I will start from something positive that demonstrates the resistance to the time and the crisis of the great reform of the National Health System that our prolongation, the democratic party, the PASOK, has created. We are proud of this when we read that today, in Greece of the crisis, Greece takes the 20th place in the first world ranking of states based on the new rules and objectives set by the UN for sustainable development in the health sector for the period, Ministers, from 1990 to 2015. The National Health System, created by the Athens and George Gennimata Friday in 1982, endured even from 1990- says the UN and not us - until 2015 ranks our Greece in the 20th world position. That's what PASOK did, Mr. Xanthi, not what you said. I don't want to continue on the same tone. Unfortunately, there are some other elements that are not so good. I am referring to publications of valid websites, but also to REAL NEWS and Onmed, which record that by 489%, almost 500% - listen - the production of private insurance for patients increased in the first two months of 2016 compared to the first two months of 2015, Ministers. These elements that have seen the light of publicity and are invoking as sources the association of insurance companies, what do they show? They show that every day tens of citizens, hundreds of citizens unfortunately turn to the private sector, those who can, in order not to face chaos, ranch, impoverishment. In our long - suffering health - inspiring health - the ESS has suffered severe triumphs, but has endured the crisis. And he endured because there were tools, there were interventions that you've thrown them into the trash today. For example, the e-prescription, which you have never voted on, the ESY.net, the price observatory and a number of interventions in the National Health System, so that it can be cleaned up and not collapsed. But today, let's take a look at the evidence. Where to start! Shall I start at Thessaloniki's AHEPA Hospital? I'm expecting you to tell me what happened with that incident, where there were no gauzes or materials there were, the patients bought the materials, and to get into the surgery, they got a series of priority. I mean, there's been the devastation of the ESS at its core. Do you want me to go to Patras? There are great shortages of staff. Should I go to "Gomanagement" here? At 50% of the organic positions there are shortcomings. Do you want me to go to Ryu University Hospital? There are huge deficiencies and, in particular, four hundred eighty-seven empty organic positions, in the "Generalities" in Thessaloniki, the "Hippokratio". In the "Thriasio" area, which is central to both the industrial zone and the passage of large national roads, we have closed surgery. We also have huge shortages of wounded both in "Thriasio" and in Rhodes. They will say that and colleagues will say that. So if anyone walks around the Greek territory, they will see not only the general shortcomings, but they will also see the special shortcomings, because there is not even a plan. What about haemodialysis and units? What's going on in Naxos? Why isn't the unit working while we have dialysis equipment in the hospital? Why do we have 11 haemodialysis machines in place in the "CHAPD"? What's your plan for this? Have you ever had it? Have you ever presented it? What's going on with the radiation therapy? You'll tell me, it's timeless. I'll agree. I'm not going to zero or even look good. What exactly have you done two years now as the first time left in the field of health? Complaints - those you did before - occupations, violence, with protagonists then you. Decent accomplices to a Prime Minister who had a career in the Occupation and yesterday from the Step that proud us of it! Two years now, you've filled us with lies, masturbations and patches. You are feeding, inaugurating old structures under another name and unleashing Mr. Polakis, who smokes abundantly and does bullying to health editors, threatening them to "saving three meters under the earth". That's what you're doing. That's how you walk, with masturbations and threats. Mr. Xanthos, you're nonexistent. The health ‘deather’ has the name ‘Polakis’. So let's start talking about lies. Because your indifference has really led patients to despair and those of them, unfortunately, in the private sector since the "first time left". You like to quote numbers. So let's quote the numbers. You told us - and you usually say so by bragging - that for the first time you increased the budgets of hospitals. Watch out for the trick. After double books as mayor, Mr. Paulakis found another trick: He carried the expensive drugs from EEAY to the hospital. And basically, to see what's the best. We've discussed this, if it's better. But don't tell us that you increased budgets when the cost of transporting expensive medicines to hospitals goes far beyond increases. And there are sick right now, who may be cancerous or suffering from other serious conditions, which do not find their medicine and have no budgets for the hospitals to cover them. These are the masts. But I wish it were just them. Where the "come see" has been done is in recruitment. What exactly has happened to the recruitment? It is true - because I will still not look forward - that of the ninety thousand staff of the ESS in 2010, in 2014 we were at the eighty-seven thousand. Now we're much lower. Where are we, Minister? They were approved - and they were approved by the General Accounting Office of the State - in December 2014 nine hundred and eighty-five seats - is Mr Gregorakos here, I see him in front of me, he was in the Ministry of Health - fully approved, which have not yet been paid. These people haven't been appointed yet. And what did we hear? Let me tell you. April 2015 - original would be - "We direct four and a half thousand to health". On 24 January 2016, "We have already appointed four and a half thousand to health". Zero in 2015. That's the truth. The Prime Minister told us - listen, listen! - that he will appoint - says - ten thousand doctors and nurses to health. And today you have not been able to appoint the nine hundred eighty-five, who have been approved posts since 2014. You have published August 2015, but one year after those you published in August 2015 - and did well, did you not tell you that you did not do well - where they are, really? Have they been appointed? Let's have a word. It's good to see the "will", also the cabs, it's nice and the lies, they sound nice, but another so beautifully burned, because they have "closed the lies". I shall submit to the Minutes a printed copy of the AACC, which appears to be unintentional. [[At this point, the Member, Evi Christophilopoulou, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr Ministers, it is not with majestics, nor with duo-doubles in the agencies, to nominate the two, because this year Greece squeeze from the flu. Every year we had problems, but this year there was a flu massacre. We had a hundred and eighty dead, and this year they didn't open the extra beds, because you wanted to appoint your own doctors and nurses through CEDEFOP. You went and "doo" inside the CDC. You don't see anything before. You're not keeping the law. What do you care? After you smoke inside the Ministry in front of the label "Ministry of Health and Welfare"! Finally, we call on you, because there is no plan and that is what I shall finish, Mr President, so that I do not abuse at least the time of my first speech. There is no plan, because it is not enough to cover the gaps even to appoint them. I wish you, in the interests of health and of Greek citizens, something to be done to wake up and do something to do. But it's not enough to appoint or give money after we've loaded up the hospitals. We need a plan and a restructuring of the National Health System to revive it. He needs a new plan for primary school too. We passed the law in 2013 and institutionalised the family doctor. Instead of improving it, instead of putting your own seal on it, you are currently bringing something else, something completely different, which until it is implemented we will not even know where you are. What I want to say and what I want to say as the Democratic Reconciliation is that we need to come to an agreement and we need to see a health plan. That is all we have proposals and that is what our President will talk about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u357	Thank you, too. At this point is the President of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Gennamas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u358	Mr President, may I have the floor on personal grounds? Is the procedure foreseen?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u359	Wait a minute, Madam President. Do you want now or after the word, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u360	Now I'd like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u361	But the President's up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u362	I have asked for the floor on my own behalf, Mr Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u363	Since the president's up, please, Minister, take after the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u364	'The reason for the time of the paradox does.' If Mrs. Gennamas speaks, she will have forgotten what Mrs. Christophilopoulou said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u365	You'll see, Minister. It's quite typical, because I had already given Mrs. Gennimata the floor. I'll give you right after the speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u366	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the National Health System has been abandoned in its fate. In hospitals today, survival is judged and human dignity really is being tested. And that's not a secret. Every day everyone who resorts to health services and, of course, all workers live in this area every day. Worse is no longer done in health! We've returned to times before the National Health System. As of January 2015, the policy of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL is identical with party control interventions, with administrative and management failure. Despite announcements, staff reductions are dramatic. In practice, inequalities have been widened, at the same time as citizens pay increased contributions for the system. Ladies and gentlemen, in April 2015, Mr Tsipras promised that he appointed four and a half thousand permanent officials to health immediately. I now appreciate, after all this time, that he didn't randomly choose that date. A few days ago the Prime Minister "done". This time from another step, his favorite to make promises without a reflection, that of the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. Here, of course, promises have multiplied. Now he's taken ten thousand hirings into the health system. What are the actual data? April 2015: "We divide" - says - 'in four and a half thousand to health'. On 24 January 2016: “We appointed four and a half thousand to health.” The truth? No assignment to health within 2015! Nobody! Thessaloniki International Exhibition 2016: “Ten thousands of appointments to health in the next few months”, the Prime Minister says. The truth: Nine hundred eighty-five relate to the posts approved since 2014, which have not yet been taken over. Two and a half thousand relate to positions they adopted in August 2015 and published a year's delay. Seven hundred sixty relate to doctors, who are declared late two years. OAED recruitment - five thousand - with social work has already been delayed two years. I'm doing a parentheses here, to say that they've gone through this institution. They are people with a salary of less than 400 euros, but they will not be able to get into on-calls or take on serious points, so they will relieve the system where it hurts. In short, they did not use the 2014 communication, which had moved from the previous government with guaranteed resources to the budget, no one has been appointed to date and every time they talk about the same recruitments, which constantly promise every time they talk about health. But unfortunately, these lies have dramatic consequences for the system. The absence of doctors and staff who led to the closed ICUs, especially during the outbreak of influenza, has led to a sad record of deaths. And the rapid reduction of staff in public hospitals - seven thousand less in 2015 alone - leads to tragic situations every day within the system, despite the superhuman efforts currently being made by doctors and staff in hospitals. I am tabling detailed complaints about the WTO, which gives a very great fight. [[At this point the President of the PASOK Democrat Association - DIMAR Mr Fotini Gennamata presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] And I mention characteristic cases that I think they're all saying. In "Savvas" radiotherapy waiting lists arrive until February 2017. At the same time, the Gynecological and Endocrine Clinic are ready to close. Where? San Savva! At Alexandra Hospital there was an old-type radiotherapy machine, serving fifteen patients a day. A month ago, according to the WTO, it has not yet been ordered to restore the damage. In fact, a donation of the Niarchus Foundation for a modern radiation therapeutic machine is not delivered because there is no staff to operate it. But people are dying, Minister. In health centers workers gather with fundraisers to get syringes, gauzes, and even health paper. I'm a witness. I saw it with my eyes this summer and I didn't really believe what I saw. Announcing an increase in funding for health has no real impact. The infamous increases in the budgets in hospitals have disappeared in the PPC, now that the cuts are at hand. All budgets for 2016 are actually reduced compared to 2014, leading the National Health System to collapse. They seized the hospital reserves and doubled over the past three months the unpaid obligations of hospitals, which have now exceeded 1.5 billion euros. In fact, the actual grants to hospitals for the period 2015-2016 are less than 2014. Mrs Christophilopoulou explained this earlier. And this when pensioners paid health additives, by increasing contributions, 281 million more in 2015 and 776 million more in 2016. In simple terms, they reduce the benefits to which the insured and the pensioners are entitled and indicate the protectionists of uninsured persons uninsured. Even the rising expenditure on hospitals' budget for primary care compared to 2015 - which again, at the time, SYRIZA government - is being nullified by the transfer of the expensive medicine from the EEA to hospitals, without any extra subsidy. Thus, with the additional burdens, hospitals are now at a marginal point, with constant material shortages, while people's needs are increasing. As for primary health care, for twenty months you have done absolutely nothing. Now we hear you're bringing a bill, which I'm afraid is meant to stay in some drawers too. And after two years of complete abandonment and dismantling, instead of realising the forecasts for the MEDIA, strengthening structures and putting in an on-call case immediately in Attica and the large urban centres the central units, which can finally alleviate the hospitals and citizens and instead of implementing the family doctor and the networks, what do they announce? Units, he says, neighborhood for the next two years, pilots, which will cover too little of the people's needs. In Greece of 2016 they use as a model part of Cuba of 1960 and finally because they like baptisms and renames, what we understand, Minister, is that all you care about is changing the name to health centers so that there is nothing left to remind PASOK, because he is your enemy! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] But be sure that the National Health System and health centres are deeply rooted in the soul of Greek citizens, who consider them to be a great conquest, despite the problems they have had in previous years. That's the real situation. We've got a bottom! However, I am also obliged, in my position today, to repeat that fair and hard criticism, which is necessary with everything that is happening in SYRIZA, does not mean that the solution to health problems and deadlocks is a return to the Conservative policy of the New Democracy. The period of governance of the country on the right was identical to the undermining of public health services, the expansion of deficits and social inequalities. The collapse of the social state and the waste were characteristic in the governance of the New Democracy. And after fighting rabies against the establishment of the National Health System, it weakened the system over time. Suffice it to remind me that hospital debts to third parties in 2004 were 2.7 billion, and at the end of 2009 6.2 billion, was wasted and immunity everywhere. The expenditure on orthopaedic materials, for reagents, for pharmaceutical materials, without improving the services, increased between 2005 and 2009 by 50% to 70%. The public expenditure on drug that was around 2.4 billion in 2004, in 2009, amounted to about 5 billion. The New Democracy, especially in the period 2004-2009, smuggled resources, degraded quality, handled hospitals with uncritical partyism and consciously led citizens to private health services. And I come here to stress that we have not heard a single word of self-criticism from the new leader of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis. But what is really challenging is that we have not heard a single word of criticism from SYRIZA or the period in opposition or today that is in the government. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Because the truth is one: that every time New Democracy and SYRIZA govern, they increase their debts, while we made our debt to the homeland, because we managed to collect all this waste with structural measures, without limiting the services or making a reduction in the quality of services. And nobody's talking about it. We fought for ourselves those years and everyone across the street flew. Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of today's question, the objective of all Members of the Democratic Alliance, is not only the criticism and the necessary control over acts, mistakes and omissions of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. Why? Because we, quite simply, have another relationship with the National Health System. We believe that to stand back on his feet, he needs an effort, a plan, and it needs to be done, because he provides very important services to the Greek people. Because the ESS believes, because as everyone knows in this place is our creation, it is our people who have done this vision. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Thousands of people, executives, doctors, nurses, workers in the National Health System were recruited to get flesh and bones, because we know how to dare and make reforms, even conflicts, wherever necessary. Recall that six university and thirty prefectural hospitals were built at PASOK, ninety of the two hundred health centers. The EMCDDA has expanded throughout the country. It was founded by OkANA, EEAY. All major health reforms proceeded from dehabilization to mental health from the horrible images of Leros, until e-prescription. Our aim is therefore to stop this catastrophe, the dissolution, the deterioration of public hospitals. The ESS is and remains our central political choice, and the first issue for us is the upgrading of the ESS. Health is a fundamental individual and social asset. No one can play with it. The problematic functioning of the National Health System today has a direct negative effect on the health of the population and especially on the poorest layers. They're the ones you're hitting with the downgrading of the services. That is why we are proposing a new national health policy, a new national health system, a system that ensures access. Be careful, that was the problem of 1981 - in 1984 reforms started - the problem of access. And today it is once again one of the most important problems. We want a system that covers vulnerable groups, but also chronic sufferings, a system that gives weight to prevention, which makes use of human resources, but also technologies, a system that is effective and sustainable. We have drawn up an integrated proposal within the framework of the Conference of Democratic Independence a few months ago. Today I would like to put forward, for example, seven proposals on what needs to be done as a priority in the field of health: strengthening public health services and activities. Free compulsory vaccinations throughout the population, based on a national programme. National pre-control programme, mainly for prevention of cancers and cardiovascular diseases. Health education at the workplace and education. Secondly, "your doctor" for all citizens is the key. Development of primary health care through the creation of networks involving the units of the national health system, local government and the participating, but certified private sector, for the provision of primary care for family medical and prevention. Only in this way will we reduce spending without cutting down on the social state. Third, nurses outside the memorial. An obligation to hire nurses to public hospitals so that we can reach international standards, with an exception from the Memorandum Restrictions. Fourth, electronic health card. Its publication is based on the health insurance file and the extension of electronic health to all sectors. Fifth, new architecture in the NSA. Conversion of the ESS to a modern public body with strong central and regional administration, selected with merital criteria. Create reference centres for chronic illnesses of the ESS, one per region for the four major chronic diseases. Gradual restructuring of public hospitals and the distribution of clinics and laboratories, based on the needs of the population of each region. Setting up basic hospitals to cover the population of up to 100 thousand. Sixth, modern pharmaceutical policy. Ensure the necessary medicine for every Greek citizen. Zero participation in the pharmacy and in the use of ERC services for persons with family income below the poverty threshold, but certified transparently. Application of scientific protocols and their incorporation into e-prescription. And seventhly, strengthening the financing of the ERC, so that public health expenditure reaches 6% of GDP within three years. Transformation of EEAS to a public insurance company with a role of national and universal purchaser of health services from certified public and private services with a single tariff. Ladies and gentlemen, the national health system is at risk and I am not in danger. That's visible to anyone anymore. But this is about our health, about our own lives. And there are no discounts, delays, inefficiency and, above all, no deferrals. Here, and now, decisions with direct intervention, so that the health system does not collapse. Despite our big differences, we need to find the common denominator. We are not left to criticism and we are not happy with dissolution, but rather with the logic of degrading all the services provided, because this means loss of life. I want us to be clear. We, of course, consistently demand the change of political correlations and our decisive strengthening, so that we can enable the ESS to come out of this stagnation, give him new breath, because we know and can. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u367	Mr. Polakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u368	Thank you, Mr President. I mean, two words. Whether I'm a 'health baiter' is sure you won't say it. They'll say, if they say so, the people who accept health services lately and the workers in hospitals. Because, from what I see you and the President-in-Office are making you copy - paste the WTO announcements, which are a lie above - and I will say one or two examples - I will tell you that in Naxos, Mrs Christophilopoulou, the unit is over in 2009. You say to me "deadly" and I lie. You're lying. In 2009 the unit ended, and because I visited, the osmosis and the basic machinery underneath the artificial kidney machine had not been connected. We ruled? They call me "deadly" those who cut them 5.800,000 euros a year of advertising expenditure from CEDEFOP and which...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u369	Where's the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u370	Calm down, Mr. Kegeroglu. Here today we will say too much to the end, too much and with names. Well, 5.800,000 euros and a little bit of the advertising expenditure of the CEDEFOP, which you were giving in both 2014 and 2013 and 2012 and 2011 and 2010 and 2009, and it's up to 2005. Since 2004, that's what you have done. And with the help of these, you're trying to make a virtual picture of these things that we do, which no matter how much you're trying to paint it, you won't find a real result. Soon we'll respond very specifically to some things. Also...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u371	Every three and a little...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u372	Wait a minute, because the black fund candy they use like this, sometime it has to end. I know...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u373	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u374	You're laughing and looking, Mr. Kegeroglu, not me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u375	I did not say "christian".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u376	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u377	I did not say "christian".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u378	That's what you said. And you called me lost body before, and I did how I didn't hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u379	Not to me!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u380	Mr. Kegeroglu!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u381	Tuboke, sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u382	Trumpooke!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u383	In your place, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u384	Why has he taken the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u385	I know you've put on people...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u386	Where's the time, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u387	Sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u388	I'm inquiring, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u389	Sit down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u390	...and I see you're breaking the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u391	Sit down now!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u392	Where's the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u393	Staff are the characterizations...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u394	Let us go! Come on, cheer up!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u395	That's where you belong.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u396	"deadness" and "black funds" to which I reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u397	Mr. President, time...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u398	Mrs Christophilopoulou, you mentioned in a concrete way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u399	You're a president right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u400	Sit down, I said!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u401	I know you've searched what's there and what doesn't exist in the upper world and now and before, to find us a black spot. So the black fund you're talking about...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u402	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u403	Just a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u404	You'll get the floor later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u405	The black fund you're talking about is what I told the CEDEFOP and where was it? That instead of funeral wreaths, the Sfakians provided funding to the city office, because there was no prediction at that time, and in this way they paid the primary doctor and nurses who worked there. This is the black fund to stop the fairy tale.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u406	Please, Mr. Cremastino has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u407	Mr President, I should like to reply on a personal note.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u408	Mr President, when Mrs Christophilopoulou's staff is done...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u409	What do you want, Mr. Loverdo?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u410	When the personalities are finished, as a parliamentary representative, I want the floor for the procedure, which has already been destroyed. I want to give you a statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u411	Wait a minute, Mr. Loverdo. Would you like to help with the progress of the process?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u412	Sure. That's what I want.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u413	If that is what you want, then, that is, if you want to help with the progress of the process, say a few words to Mrs Christophilopoulou and end the matter. Here, Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u414	Mr President, under the conditions of parliamentary democracy still in force, no attempt to 'Madourisation', social equalisation of everything and the establishment of a SYRIZA-ANEL regime will pass. So in a parliamentary democracy, Mr President, each Member of Parliament has the right to judge, as is the case with the patient and every citizen. That is how we have citizens' representatives. What can we do? We were elected by some in this role.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u415	Wait a minute, Mrs. Christophilopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u416	I reply to Mr Polakis, Mr President, who said that I am not entitled to judge him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u417	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u418	I am therefore entitled to judge the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u419	Wait a minute, Mrs. Christophilopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u420	You have not interrupted Mr. Polakis, Mr. President. You're not interrupting me, either.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u421	The Minister, if he wants to take the floor, takes him for five minutes, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Please very much now. I don't know what happened today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u422	Two yards and two stations? Five minutes he was talking and you didn't interrupt him despite the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u423	No, he has a right under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u424	Can I continue for the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u425	Say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u426	First of all, I say that I have the right to judge and, secondly, that the designation of a 'political necrober of health' is precisely political, because we have already substantiated, Mr President - and it will then be done - that day after day the grave of the ERC is digging and day after day is eating private insurance. In this sense, therefore, my political position is that and it remains that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u427	Good. What would you like, Mr. Kegeroglu?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u428	Mr President, I ask for the floor on staff, to say that I have not said that Mr Polakis was ridiculous, because I have long stopped addressing his face, following the finding that he is unreliable, politically. This phrase, which he said, therefore, was totally arbitrary as I was addressing it. I would like to say once again that, because of the policy of untrustworthyness, I have not been addressing his face for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u429	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u430	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u431	Mr. Loverdo, please, you're making this very easy. That's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u432	Mr President, I do not want to send you a note with two Members signing the Rules of Procedure, but the timely questions have an ethics dictated by the Rules of Procedure of this House. What must be expressed first? The questioner.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u433	But that's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u434	Based on the order you keep. I have no objection to that. I'm not insane. There was a designation for a minister. He'll take the floor and he'll answer. But, on this point, if he is in every position, because something can hear about him - especially the ministers are judged on questions, what to do - to speak and answer more generally, then there is a reason for breaking the Rules of Procedure of the House in the intervening, emblem, to the Minister to revise the relevant arguments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u435	No, I gave the floor on a personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u436	If that is the case, we are telling you now that the whole parliamentary group will create noise in the House that will not allow the Rules of Procedure to be violated. Please keep it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u437	We're making a case, and we're putting ourselves in.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u438	I would also like to make one final clarification on our behalf, which Mr Kegeroglu said. We ask the Minister. There are several reasons, Mr President, for developing, for which there are no other interlocutors in this ministry. Another political person in this ministry doesn't exist. There's Mr. Blonde. We are addressing him and we are criticising him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u439	All right, I gave the floor to Mr Polakis on staff. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u440	For us, there is no other political person.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u441	Here, Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u442	Mr President, before time begins, I would like to say that I hope we will talk about health. Going down from the Step, PASOK President Gennimatas and listening to her I thought, "Won't people think that a party can say anything, since it doesn't see a runway to power immediately? He can say anything. It can promise a health system, the best that exists in the world or has not been found." There is one difference, however, that this area is basically the area that created the National Health and Welfare System. That's the difference, that is, the credibility of his story. For in 1981 - we speak historically at the moment - it was the case with Genesis in the Old Testament - without wanting to be religiously misunderstood - that "God said, "the light was born and light was made, day one." This was in 1981. He said Andreas Papandreou “make a national health system, make a national welfare system” and lay its foundations. That is the real story, whether we do not want to accept it with micropolicy or want to accept it with history. This historian will say: before 1981 there were bricks and horns, completely out of line. I ask: do you know that the EAW, his ancestor, was a first aid centre that existed on 3 September when the then Prime Minister and the queen then started it? That's a big play. And today you see the EKA, with a huge band, with education, with the retraining of doctors, with pre-medical medicine. When did this happen? It happened then. I have here an article I got from “OBSERVER” and I submit it. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Dimitrios Kremastinos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The article is titled 'Europe's Guilty secret', the guilty secret of Europe, and has pictures from Lero, like all newspapers. I took this as Minister and received, if you like, as mental health. Here's a picture of my visit to Lero when I went and saw the psychopaths. This is the story of the House. And I testify to that. [[At this point, Parliament's Vice-President Dimitrios Kremastinos presents for the minutes the above photo, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Department of Stenography and Practice.]] What happened in two years? The same newspapers said Leros, and OBSERVER, and GUARDIAN and TIMES in London should be a model. It was the shame of Europe, Leros. In this Chamber with all parties then of anti-Population, we spent methadone as a substitute. Everyone was saying then that meth would make more drug addicts. What happened? Today everyone admits methadone. That's the real story. Then - you will allow me to "I" - I have executed Okana with the first president, the late Stephano Manika. There was no Okana. Was there a telemedicine? Then we put the bases of telemedicine. Were there the hospitals, these giants you see today? How did the hospitals, which you're still doing today, and you're good to do? They were because we then led by Andreas Papandreou, the first state in Europe, were able to exclude ourselves from the Maastricht Treaty, the hard Treaty of Maastricht, which said that health and welfare were the sizes of the states' budgets rather than the European Union. Then, then, the great works were done, then the foundation stone of health came in. I too am proud, because I was the last Minister for Health of Andreas Papandreou, a Minister who, as my friend Mrs Christophilopoulou said, succeeded the late Genuines and, of course, the Green Friday who set up the framework of the National Health System. As much as we want to change the names, say the health centers or hospitals, etc., history will write that the infrastructure is it. So when I heard Mrs Gennamas speak here earlier, I said 'yes, she speaks well, she should have listeners'. Because this place is not any random party that came to the House to demagogue. It is the area that created health and welfare for Greece. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] As far as our topic is concerned, I really feel that dialogue with the Ministry of Health is a dialogue of deaf people, that is, you speak and get answers that you don't understand, because they answer, since you ask others. At this point I will tell you an allegiance to understand it. He asks, he says, the nephew Uncle "Barba, what time is he doing out?" And he says to him, "Worms are sowing." And the nephew says to him, "But I didn't ask you what you were doing. I ask you what time it has out." And he says, "Worms are sowing." And it repeats the same thing. That's what I mean to say. This isn't a courthouse to tell who's telling the truth and who's lying. But we have to tell truths. In other words, when you say that we have appointments, you should be aware that the first is the announcement of appointments, the announcement of appointments, the crisis in appointments, and the last is the appointments that depend on the budget. So I clearly want an answer. In the 2014 budget four and a half thousand appointments were announced, as Mrs Christophilopoulou said, in April and May.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u443	Thousands of eighty-five were in the 2014 budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u444	Of these four and a half thousand, how many were appointed? This is where the question arises as to why this expenditure did not go to health. In other words, what the budget wrote in euro went to other needs, not to say anything else. Is it true or isn't it? Were these four and a half thousand or not appointed? Now to say that we have appointed millions, thousands, billions, all right. I told you that the stages are four and no one can follow them. But that can be answered. That's the one question. The second thing I have to say and which has to do with health again is that you always say: "You know, opposition blames us" and one another. The great Papandreou - and I mean Andreas Papandreou - when you said something to him, he said to you, "How many questions are the questions the MPs addressing from all parties in your ministry?" You were answering him. And then he told you "superior of time, increased or reduced the questions"? If you responded to him "increased", Papandreou responded to you "you have a problem". And that was what he told his minister, no matter who he was. That's what Andreas Papandreou did, since you want us to invoke him in this Chamber and which I had the honor and luck, if you like, to meet him in my life. That's the depots. So don't say, "You know, everyone opposes, because they want to make us opposition or because they want to kick us out of the government" or to kick SYRIZA out of power. That is an easy answer, but I do not think that should be the answer. And there's no need for big words and big words.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u445	Mr President, we are moving towards the end of your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u446	Mr President, if I may, I would like to add something more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u447	Go on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u448	And I want to say this. When I asked two questions about malaria, you told me the story of malaria. I don't want the story of malaria. I want to see what happened in terms of movement of the Ministry of Health and I didn't get an answer. What I want you to say to me, that is, if Greece's marshes and steadfast waters were mapped. Did that happen? Oh, no! Instructions were given? So what Mr Paulakis says is 'advertising' and the World Health Organisation 'campaign', namely an intensive information campaign on how, for example, we will be protected from insects in our homes? Have these instructions been given or have they been given? And how were they given? And the most important thing is to know that mosquitoes not only bring malaria, but also Zica virus and Western Nile virus, but also hepatitis. So the sprays were done? And what month did the sprays become to destroy the larvae and larvae? That's the answer you have to give. I want you to give me that answer. I don't want SYRIZA either to overthrow or change the headline of the Ministry of Health. The same thing I asked you about the story that the president of the Medical Association told you about. And I have no intention of defending positions and contradictions. I asked very simple things. I asked if you know how to tell me some area in the world, the country in which the seasonal flu had more victims, dead than the normal influenza epidemic, and even when there was a vaccine. Then, of course, it didn't exist. I don't know anything. If there's a country, tell me it's this country. Then I'll hear it. But if there is no country, then you should think about what has happened. I know what happened. If the President gives me time - which he won't give me - I will tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u449	We don't have any more time, Mr. President. We remove it from the rest of the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u450	That's right, Mr. President. You, if you want, can tell me what has happened, because nothing can have happened and we have that specificity. And I repeat that I am not personally against you. But that's the story, that's life. What can we do? The most important thing is this and I will end with this. I also give you advice, if you wish, as a greater one: do not engage in a personal dialogue. Make dialogue on real health issues. If you want, listen to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u451	Thank you. Mr Cremastinos was given the opportunity to exceed time, because he is a former Minister and is also in the health sector. Mr. Koutsoukos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u452	Mr President, I would like you to interrupt me, because I want to keep the time of my dentistry. Ladies and gentlemen, as a responsible political force, which brings to our back the heavy history of the construction of the National Health System, which, as Mrs Christophilopoulou said earlier, has resurrected the crisis, we are making tough and documented criticism of the government, of the deterioration of the system and of the problems created by its policy and we are putting forward concrete proposals on how this space can be raised. In this effort we will not allow any kind of trabucism to disorientate the debate. In the face of the political impossibility of the Government and the Ministry to respond to the substantiated criticism and, above all, to demonstrate that this system has a prospect, various methods have been condemned by the past. I'm stopping here. I don't want to go any further. Ladies and gentlemen, I have often been opposed to the Committee on Economic Affairs with the government's financial staff claiming that, in the circumstances of the crisis, it has made more money for health. It is an argument, which primarily repeats the head of the Ministry of Health, to allegedly highlight its philosophical and social face. No falseer, since yes more money is written in the Ministry of Health's budget, because they have been transferred since 2015, but if you see hospital funding - hospital is less than 350 million. The result, today we are talking about, is that most hospitals have exhausted the budget and cannot respond to the basic purchases of materials. That's why what Mrs. Gennamas said earlier are happening to meet the needs. The patients put their hand in the pocket. They become fundraisers. That's the situation. It turns out further, with the official information, which the WTO of course mentions, but it cannot be disproved by the Ministry, that from 2015 onwards, that SYRIZA and ANEL govern, we have about seven thousand fewer workers - the world has left - and that the system as a whole has thirty-five thousand gaps. These, however they tell us every day here in the questions put by all the regional MPs, Mr Vice-President, why problems are getting worse, that we have two nine hundred and sixty people who come from 2014 and 2015, will not be covered. Let's not, nobody's been to the hospitals because the system doesn't work. So there is a huge problem, the collapse of the system proactively, which the citizens live in their daily lives today, and the government is trying to hide it, but it is certain that it is in the face of a great deadlock, which, with the policy pursued, with the commitments made by the memoranda, the recession and the problems in the economy and tax policy, cannot be addressed. It is very characteristic, and the fact that this great change made by the government, by abolishing the five-year-old, the reform of Mr Kurublé, which loaded 6% of the main pensions and 4% of the subsidiary has been chartered, as it cannot cope with the costs of care for uninsured people. Because the financing in hospitals falls short of real costs and the hospitals will make savings by depriving those who pay and are insured. So the populism of Mr Kurubli's government, on the one hand, took money alive from the pockets of the insured, the pensioners, has reduced pensions and, on the other hand, does not fill a gap that would give this five-and-a-half for those few who would go to the hospital. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll take two minutes for my dentistry, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are most of the regions and experience the problems every day. People won't let us rest. Yesterday, the commander at the hospital of Pyrgos gave "endellethaj". Do you know what 'endels' means in a democracy? Close the pathological clinic of the Amalada Hospital and take both doctors and sick people and beds to the other hospital. And there was a revolution. Doctors up, patients. We prevented it. In the summer we prevented the closure of the cardiology at the Tower, the intensive one. The gaps are huge. We live it every day and because we live it, no one can tell us that something different is happening. So what we want to stress - and this is what I will close my position - ladies and gentlemen, is that we need a change of policy, which will bring health issues out of the memorandum and will renegotiate important aspects of the commitments made by the SYRIZA Government with the third memorandum, the last memorandum. I will close with them, Mr President, as I have said, two minutes for my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u453	Mr. Kutsuko, I am defending your right to secondary. Mr. Odysseus Constantinople has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u454	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I have three packages, which are your speech on primary care as rapporteur of the SYRIZA, your proposal at the NATIONOS for the 'the doctor of the neighborhood' and my speech. I will try through this process to understand when you were telling the truth about primary care. It is very important when we talk about primary care to say that those who tried for primary care are Spyros Doxiadis, Paraskevi, Kostas Neitonas, Dimitris Kremastinos and Costas Stefanis. I would like to talk about Costas Cappos, who, as rapporteur for the Left in 1983, supported the reform of primary care. We all recognise that if there was no EOPY, which was a choice of PASOK and Andreas Loverde, it could not exist and we could discuss primary care in the country. In '81 the New Democracy said what you said now: "When we come, we'll abolish it by a law all." That's what he said. It's in the Minutes of the House. You'll remember them. And you were a Dedicated Opposition to Mr.Georgiadis' bill, where Mr. Georgiadis came to Stepma of the Parliament and said "The bill I bring has nothing to do with New Democracy. It has characteristics of a Social Democratic Party.' He said it in the House, you were here when he said it, and he was talking about primary care. Then we made some changes. First change was that we put primary care, no exceptions. Do you remember that, Minister? It was in the first article and we put the word you wanted - and you did not vote on it - 'and for uninsured people'. So this was corrected by the party and entered "for the uninsured". And so that there are no private cases - because you said that new structures would be created - we also put this in the article - and Mr Xanthos knows it - so that the words 'creating new structures' can prevent any possibility of what you say. We shall now go to what is said today and will be announced. What does Mr. Blondie say? "Primary health care, universal for all and equal to everyone." That's right. We told you the model: global budget, health centers, doctors, specialities per operation, payment per operation with a global budget for the country. You know the model, you're a student of the NSA. You know it very well, it's one of the most successful models in the world. You bring another model today, which I read at the "CYRIC NATIONS", to these "damned" and "damish intertwiners", where you say that we are doing a project, which will cost EUR 300 million for 2017 and 2018, will be covered by NSRF redesign resources and will be in sixty cities. So it's not Catholic. In particular, your proposal for the next few years is not universal. It leaves 70% of the region out. You say so. It will be based for the first time on three thousand doctors - you don't tell us about staff - and it will work in sixty cities. So 70% of people outside major cities will not be able to enjoy the services. So it's not even. And I ask you: Where will people find primary care in the region, mainly? Because in large cities to some extent they can find it in IKA's medical establishments, although there are problems. That is for sure and for granted. In the district, where will they find her? Where is he going to find a primary care doctor who doesn't live in the sixty cities and the city center? So, Minister, what you are saying, namely, that the money is mainly of the ESDP - and you are doing very well - and from redesigns, it is only for two years. Your plan, the plan of a new government for primary care, is it for both years for urban centres, that is 30%? So, unfortunately, there's no plan. It is another fragmentary policy, so that we can create impressions and no substance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u455	So do we. Mr. Papatheodorou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u456	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, today I think you will be faced with the truth and you will have to give concrete answers. One truth by which, as a reality, citizens face daily in hospitals and a reality that you have shaped so that it is inviolable. Today, it is clear, both from the reports and complaints of citizens, patients and workers, that the shortcomings in the public health system, personnel, medicines and animal health are constantly increasing. It is an issue on which your Ministry, although he knows it, does not take substantial action and I will try to prove it to you. One of the biggest problems currently faced by patients is the inability of hospitals to cover high-cost medicines intended, Minister, for patients belonging to vulnerable groups. I'll talk about it later. The prohibition on the supply of high-cost medicines by the EEAS and the provision for their disposal exclusively by the hospitals created a suffocation in the health system itself, but at the same time jeopardises the health of patients. Since 2016, the relevant budget of the hospitals has been less than 50 million. By 2015, the costs of Category 1A medicinal products, i.e. high costs, oncologically, multiple sclerosis, were not included in the costs of hospitals. Since 2016 everything has been included in the total budget of 570 million. Five hundred seventy million. I have to give you that, Minister, because the figures are important. In 2013, the total public hospital expenditure was 750 million and in 2016 is 570 with a view to becoming 550 per year. Therefore, following the newly introduced clawback hospital expenditure, overcoming the hospital expenditure now reaches 41% of the hospital budget, i.e. 250 million, in fact 237 million. This is proof of your failure to rationalise the medicine policy and the market. The cost is still too high, but there is still a risk to the health of the citizens, because oncology, haematologicals, AIDS patients do not find any medicine why I will tell you later. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] The relevant budgets have been exhausted in hospitals. Therefore, when the budget for the costs of hospital medicine is exhausted, how will patients be allocated? Already in some hospitals, this budget has been exhausted. I'm telling you that with evidence. Many pharmaceutical companies have already warned that they will be forced to reduce the amounts of disposal or to withdraw the medicines. So how will patients be covered? The famous negotiation you're saying you did with the pharmaceutical companies at what stage is it at today? What are the achievements ten months after the committee was set up? The Committee on Health Procurement has carried out so far in hospitals, Minister? Why are the hospitals in this situation? I'm talking, for example, about Rio's university. I can tell you a lot else. It is more likely that the budget is being used and there are no such high-cost medicines. St. Andreas has been exhausted since September 15th. The therapeutic protocols, Mr. Minister, apply to hospitals and how much do they pay off? How have patient records been exploited where they exist? In reply to all of this, you have not actually given us the greatest question today, Mr Minister, the citizens who will no longer find the high-cost medicines in many hospitals in the country. In their pocket to pay for them, or will you have tails in hospitals, waiting for the management and recycling of poverty, so also increasing the risk to patient lives? What we are seeing today is that this shortage is combined with great shortages of staff in too many hospitals. The President spoke before about Saint Sava, four hundred ninety-three blanks. However, we must also go to the evidence that appears to be presented by the WTO. Citizens see this every day. For a gastronomics, Minister, a patient should now wait in Patras for five months. Where do you think he's going to do it? In private hospitals and he's gonna pay her out of his pocket. They're asking us. I asked you the question. You have had a lot of workload and you have not come to support it, but today you can give us an answer. With a deficit that is currently 250 million for high-cost medicines, how will this deficit be paid? How will it be paid immediately before we get to the next year when the budgets are exhausted? That is what we need an answer. A reply is needed not to the Members of the Democratic Integration who have raised this issue many times, but to the citizens who will find these medicines, of which their health is now hanging and dependent. On the other hand, I keep the time of dentistry, Minister, to analyse real situations of madness in hospitals in the country today, where there is no direct intervention, there is no question of your own failure or of our arguments. It is the health of the patients and you must protect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u457	Mr Arvanitides has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u458	Thank you, Mr President. I'll use my dentistry as well. Minister, you only got six months the route between Aristotle and Parliament. You must have come with the caravan of the government, and you fell into a storm. You ran into the intensified treatment units that are not working, because you are not even able to investigate a pretext contest. You fell on your announcements of supposedly recruiting the "Hippokrate" hospital in Thessaloniki. You ran into the tragic lack of ambulances in Halkidiki. You have fallen on the exception of "Papagorio" from the 2015 subsidy for the payment of the dues, indifferent to the debts and state of the hospital.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u459	Don't say inaccurate. Mercy! We gave 67 million to Papageorgiou and it has repaid all its debts. Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u460	You'll answer. From us and the Opposition and Parliament can hide as much as you want. But you cannot hide from patients who need care and care. You can't hide from the hospital workers who haven't taken the day off in months. You cannot hide from the reality of numbers when the debts of hospitals are in danger of blowing the system as a whole. The enclosure in health is dangerous, as is inability. You have brought the National Health System in a worse state than the one you have received. In Northern Greece the situation is tragic. At the “General” hospital, the empty organic positions reach 50%. Two beds in intensive care units are out of operation. Closed up are two surgical tables. You're due to the staff two thousand days off, not one, not two, two thousand days off only in a hospital. Do you know what the most tragic thing is, Minister? For long periods of time, the only source of financing for the hospital was the church’s trap operating there. In "Papanikolaou" the empty organic positions vary from thirty-five to seventy depending on the service. In the Hippocrates, a hundred and fifty employees have retired in the last one and a half years and no one has been hired. In fact, the promises made by the recruits by Mr Paulakis in answer to my question in this House, in fact, by saying that the hemodynamic and psychiatric work will be carried out by redeployment of the existing staff. In "CHEPA" in a total of five hundred and thirty-three organic locations, the four hundred three are empty, while there are workshops with outdated machinery, which are constantly damaged. The same picture is presented in the "Saint Dimitrios", where empty organic positions reach 30%. In Kilkis, the CT scanner is closed, while fund-raisers are organized to supply materials. Apart from material shortages, however, there is also a shortage of doctors, since there is no pneumonologist, neurologist, pathologist. In Veroia, the gynecological and obstetrics clinic and the haematological function. The gastrointestinal department is in danger of shutting down, while there are surgery to postpone. In Polygirl, empty organic positions reach 40%. Intensives don't work. There are two closed surgical tables, while emergency and pulmonary function. All this happens in a county, flooded by thousands of tourists every year. In fact, the EAW employees have reached the point of requesting the intervention of the prosecutor to replace the old ambulances and the necessary recruitment to staff. For the record, I mention that the whole Halkidiki prefecture corresponds to three to four ambulances. Since I don't have much time at my disposal, I close with the "Papageorgiou", which was recently visited by the head of the Democratic Association Mr. Gennimata. Eight of the twenty beds of intensive, four of the fourteen surgical rooms cannot be operated, since there are two hundred and eighty-four empty organic posts in all staff specialties and sixty-five specialist posts. I imagine, Minister, that you understand the consequences of this situation on waiting lists and on the health of patients. I should like to close with one suggestion: health is really not a space for petty political controversy or party competition. At last, take off the blindfolds, work with design and program, bring results! And believe me, for every life that can be saved, because the system has worked well, we will be first here to congratulate you. For every patient who is relieved and lives better, because he has proper care and medication, we will tell you well. But until then, our criticism will be hard and we will always bring you before your responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u461	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u462	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, everything that exists and stands in the field of education, health and social welfare is a PASOK project. The Prime Minister recognized it yesterday for the field of education. He spoke about the 1980s, in response to the New Democracy, but, of course, he did not miss his general rhetoric, which denounces the last forty-two years of postpopulation - within and outside the years of SYRIZA - thereby praising the previous forty-two indirectly, i.e. from 1932 to 1974, since they are the worst forty-two. Only he must explain to us sometime and you, because from 1932 to 1974 are the best years of history in Greece. We must say, then, once again that the National Health System through its path, through its problems, has offered the place. The National Health System is a PASOK project. The New Democracy, of course, in certain periods and depending on who was Minister, has sought to shrink it and, of course, has not supported its public character. You today as the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, unfortunately, are degrading it, either indifferent or because of your choices. Instead of bringing a regeneration plan to the National Health System to deal with the real problems - Mrs Gennamas has developed it to you - you leave it at his mercy, you leave it to the good will and the volunteering of the workers. The picture? Congestion picture. Citizens are experiencing it. We do not need to refer to figures, if they were five thousand, a thousand, or two thousand, as to what the citizens are facing. Indeed, over the years of the crisis, the serious health problem began, but it has passed over the past two years. You should see that your choices are the ones that have not let the recruitment procedures and everything else be completed. This image exists in the public health field. The problems have already been mentioned. They relive, recur diseases that have been eradicated since decades, malaria, tuberculosis and so forth. We have a problem with the diseases that are being transported from the countries where refugees come from. There should be an organised system not only of vaccination but also of recording vaccinations in order to know exactly what is going on and we need to work more closely with the World Health Organisation, so that we know what is happening to those countries where refugees come from in relation to diseases. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll take the time of my dentistry, Mr. President. I have to say to you - I am obliged - that the Secretary-General responsible for public health is, unfortunately, dealing only with his personal subject. It seeks to be selected and selected - it was achieved - by a member of the permanent Committee of the WHO Regional Office for Europe. To promote this choice, its intention, its candidacy, participated in all the fora organised by the WHO, but, of course, not in matters relating to health, but further, in making public relations with a donor to the state budget. There were nine days left in Paris, without any meetings of the same level. And you should give us all the information about what the nine days of the Secretary-General's General's meeting in Paris concerned, which meetings he did and why he and his escort were paid. I must say that he did everything in order to find resources and to approve the continuation of the Health in Action programme, a programme which was denounced by SYRIZA and by the Minister for Health, Mr Kurubli. It was called a scandal. The tragic thing is that part of the programme, which was 800,000 euros, financed by the previous government, has been completed. Your government gave 1 million for six months and intends to give 2.5 million more than we learn for two more years. How moral is it, Minister, your existing, self-suggested representative, rather than seeking to pursue - and pursue all of us - the emergence of a renowned Greek scientist of international prestige in this position, to promote himself? We would ask - we do not know whether the option has been made - that the Committee on Social Affairs meets and that there should be discussions and consultation on this issue. If it's done, we'll have to say good luck to him, but he'll have to return the money that the State budget spent on his own personal candidacy. We are also asking you to submit the cooperation mail with the World Health Organisation and the contracts you have signed, as are the deliverables envisaged. There has been a lot of discussion about CEDEFOP. The actions and the way you handle the case show that you are indifferent to the immunization of public health. You were able to do this by using this tool and by dealing with the problems it has. The only concern seems to be the establishment of a client state. Unfortunately, what has been denounced, the disagreements with Mr Giannopoulos and others. for recruitment, it led to huge delay, resulting in Intensive Treatment Units staying without executives. The results were obtained and then changed by 50%. I submit for the Minutes a comparative table on this, which means that 50% is a huge amount of error, so it had been smuggled. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The second thing I want to say is that there is no campaign information plan, as Mr Cremastino said. Some people say it and say it again about advertising. It is not about advertising, but it is about preventive vaccination and care not to close tens of beds of Intensive Treatment Units. It doesn't matter whether it's incompetent or indifference. The result is the same, and unfortunately it also has victims. How much we contribute to our inertia, each one of our ranks, just as I do, if I don't ask a question about dismissing the government for this, I have a responsibility when a lifetime is lost, let alone the governors. You.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u463	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u464	I shall conclude, Mr President. There's an issue in the CDC. They ask the workers behind some money paid out as a status allowance on the basis of the legislation, because it was judged by somewhere that they should not have been given. Because tomorrow there was a specific question to the Minister, but because of unsettled commitments because of his visit to Iannina, he will not come, I would like to raise the matter for half a minute. There is currently correspondence between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Health as to what is possible to resolve the matter. I would suggest that the Ministry's political leadership, the Minister, should give the same solution to the corresponding problem we had with Okana, where we had dealt with the humanitarian crisis law, where with an amendment from the SYRIZA Members, the issue was resolved. There can be no different treatment, Minister, for CEDEFOP workers than for the other body for the same problem. I will present the amendment to you to see the issue on this basis, otherwise everything that is being said about the particular handling that people want for the ERIC will be confirmed. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above amendment, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u465	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u466	Ladies and gentlemen, in spite of the intensity of the initial phase, I think that when we really are in a position to approach this very sensitive area, the health sector, there is an area of understanding. I think it is important that the President of the PASOK Parliament also intervened, with the particular historical note. Obviously, no one, ladies and gentlemen, is questioning the very important and important intervention of the establishment of the National Health System in the 1980s, which was, of course, a PASOK project, as it was implemented, but the light was not born, Mr Cremastine. The establishment of a public health system was the result of racing progressive health, democrat doctors in public care throughout the 1970s. It was the result of hard, busy strikes. It was a mature social demand. And of course, a progressive government came to its initial phase and did it. But if, then, along the way, especially the three-year Mitsotakis, and then, in the late 1990s and early 2000s, there was a clear neoliberal mutation of this health system. Unfortunately, you have put the neoliberal agenda in the health system, ladies and gentlemen, then the Minister, Alekos Papadopoulos. He opened up the debate on private hospitals, hospitals, midday hospitals, for part time work of hospital doctors. The whole initial core of the health system began to be undone at the time. And, of course, the next phase and, above all, the Memorandum of Understanding followed, where there was a dramatic deterioration and dismantling. We had a National Health System that played a very important role, covered a great gap in the care of people and especially people in rural areas. Farm health centres were indeed a very critical intervention, which helped the rural population and provided decent services. By telling us, however, that we have turned the health system back to the pretext of the ESS, in my view you are also unfair to yourself and to the intelligence of people. I would just remind you that before the establishment of the National Health System, patients entered public hospitals with the pools of ministers and MPs of natural parties at that time, namely, the New Democracy. That is why the establishment of the health system was a great intersection in order to change and facilitate equal access for people. And we get to today, then. Since last year, we have heard the same self - surprise prophecy: the health system is falling apart. So after a year and a half, and the stones have learned that this has not happened. It did not happen at the most critical period last year when things were really hard and the country and the economy and society and the state were at the limit. And it did not happen because the government made a very critical political decision to strengthen its funding and halt the continuous cut in hospital budgets for five years. That's the truth. And let me say that when you table timely questions and questions, you should also be careful about the facts. What you explicitly mention in your question that the additional money, the 150 million euros, was not absorbed by the hospitals and returned to the Bank of Greece, since they were disbursed a few days before the end of 2015, is not valid. Ask a man from the General Accounting Office of the State. Ask any serious economists who can read the budgets to understand that this is not the case. The money was absorbed. That's how hospitals were kept standing. This ensures that they are supplied with medicines and health material by the end of the year, and we also had to grant a supplementary grant in December so that the health system could come up. Of course, make yourself known, because you say immediately after that a budget has been established for 2015 to the tune of 1,538 billion euros. If the money is not used, the budget will not be closed and the budget will not be closed at an increased cost. You must be critical, ladies and gentlemen, as much as you wish, but with facts and facts. The fact is, therefore, that for the first time, the ongoing sub-financing path has been reversed. Is the money coming? Oh, no. Of course, it's marginal. Of course, the needs are much more. Because the crisis has increased the need. And if, as Mrs Christophilopoulou said, the citizens in the private sector were to go, we would have no pressure on the public hospitals. Well, make up your mind. Either they go to the private sector, because we have dissolved the ESS, or we have a lot of cramped hospitals and structures of the ESS, and they really need more support to respond. The same is true of the report made by the PASOK spokesman on the medicine. He cannot tell us that oncology patients are at risk because he cannot take high-cost medicines and at the same time tell us that he has an explosion in spending. And of course we have an increase in expenditure, because they have been incorporating expensive medicines in recent years, without a potion for negotiation. And this is a great international debate right now, in which I would like to say that our country is playing a leading role. It also intervenes in the European forums and takes initiatives in coordination with other countries in the European south, in order to have a joint negotiation and to achieve more affordable prices in pharmaceutical innovation. So you cannot tell us that spending is increasing, so we are covering the world, so the patient has access and at the same time tell us that patients are at risk. Today we have made sure that public hospitals have increased medical expenses. It may not have been enough. I would remind you that this was a Memorandum of cheque and a prerequisite for the first evaluation. The closed budget and the reintroduction of PMIs to hospitals was a Memorandumary Obligation. We tried and negotiated to do it as much as possible in a more manageable way. We will do this in the quarter that we have the necessary corrective interventions left. And be sure we won't leave any man and no citizen in this country who needs uncovered drugs. And we will ensure with nails and teeth that public hospitals continue to offer decent care throughout the world in need, whether they are insured or uninsured, whether they are refugee and immigrant. You're telling us we're being mocked about recruitment. You've said that a hundred times with the pro-April joke. Find a better, more intelligent argument, please. Please! First of all, we have never promised that we would immediately appoint thousands of workers, because we know very well that this is inappropriate. There is no such thing. With the well-known dysfunctional and bureaucratic state - your state, let me say - that cannot happen. It takes a lot of time, especially for doctors' crises. You told us that in 2015 we did not appoint anyone. 'Zero', the President of PASOK said. So in 2015, which was the difficult year, which was very zombie, a hundred and eighty-seven rescuers of the EMCDDA were appointed four hundred supplementary doctors - and it was a great breath for the health system - now over a thousand two hundred. It was a key intervention to fill the big gaps that existed in the province’s hospitals. We extended the contract of a hundred doctors and other auxiliary staff who served and extended it another year until September 2017, and of course, we legislated to extend four semesters of the specialists in public hospitals. That's what we managed to do in 2015. In 2016, these days, the appointment of the first workers - already has five hundred eighty - of the first permanent workers in the health system after 2010. The crisis process begins in the selection boards of the first seven hundred doctors after also 2009-2010. Over fifty doctors have been appointed - I think sixty - and more than two hundred nurses have now arrived in the ICUs, for which you are all tired, and which results in the two hundred closed beds being made today a hundred fifty and in the Lefkadio the fifty and fifty-five closed to thirty-two. This is therefore the intervention to dismantle the public health system you say. Let me give more numbers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u467	And the two hundred of the old re-entered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u468	Yeah, good! That's right! The Deputy Minister reminds me - and quite rightly so - that we have unleashed the proceedings of the old 2008, 2009, and have already been appointed over two hundred permanent doctors from the ESS, who have been pending their recruitment for six years. They, too, have covered very critical needs. Let me give you the recruitment plan, so that you can have an image. Apart from this 4K and 5K notice, which is now being completed, and the seven hundred sixty doctors that have been published, there are a thousand five hundred thirty-six. He's been to S.H.I.E.L.D. These days they promised us that they would move on. They cover gaps throughout the health system, in the area of mental health, in the area of dependency - as I have said before - and also in the EAW, where we get another hundred rescuers. There are a thousand other two hundred intakes of nurses and other staff who have taken the Act of Ministerial Council and we believe that, by the end of the year, we will also have them in a very short time, because the rolling tables will work, at least for the main categories. It is the thousands of some two hundred supplementary doctors we have appointed, the hundreds of thirty-seven people who, through a special programme, strengthened the public structures of seven islands in the East Aegean, just to support the efforts of the public officials in the region to meet refugees and their needs with dignity. It is a new intervention that we are currently promoting, through a specific EUR 24 million programme from a special European fund, the IMI, to strengthen the public health system. There are four hundred ninety-four, about five hundred, doctors and other staff who will strengthen the adjacent public structures in camps, in large areas of open hospitality, and there will also be intervention, a minimum health unit and within the camps, so that we can strengthen the primary care of these people. Along with the completion of the positions for ITH that are five hundred people, all of this makes us a sum of over six thousand people, doctors and other staff, which is the first serious and structured reinforcement of the public health system since the start of the crisis. That's the truth. There is, of course, the Prime Minister's commitment to saying that the money we have received from the Canadians, about EUR 50 million, will be given to cover a specific 12-month-old employment programme through the OAS with four thousand recruitments of nurses and other staff, which will be completed by the end of the year. It will be a huge injection of human resources into the health system, which will allow us to complete permanent recruitment with relative comfort during the year. I therefore think that this picture under no circumstances does substantiate your criticism. The question, ladies and gentlemen, is not whether there are any problems in the health system. Obviously, there are, and nobody has a reason or a way to hide them. The question is whether our political intervention and our health policy are in a direction of gradual resolution. You must criticize us for the speeds, the times or the delay, to discuss it. And we are not happy with the way a bureaucratic and dysfunctional system of public administration recruitment operates. But I think that to criticise us for conscious deterioration, depreciation and dismantling of the public health system goes beyond the limits and touches the limits of fragmentation. We are, therefore, convinced that the interventions we have made have obviously not been dealt with in their entirety and that will take a long time. This was also a lesson - if you want - to us that the upgrading of this disorganized and abandoned health system took more time. But I think that with these interventions that have been made, but also with the placement of new staff in hospitals at this time, the climate is gradually changing and improving. The workers, doctors and the rest of the staff are well aware of this, who really see fit from the political leadership's point of view. They see daily perseverance and commitment to the support of the public health system and of course they look forward to it, but they also claim to move faster, because they are the ones who lift the heavy burden. They're the ones who lift the heavy burden, Mr. Kegeroglu. They're keeping the health system up. Some political leaderships have the historic opportunity - and, if necessary, happiness - to put his seal on. But then, the people who are struggling every day in the public health system, the one who fights with life in the emergency, the one who puts people in the surgery, the one who blows them up, the one who treats them in the intensive units, is the one who keeps the health system up. We recognize these people's work, we respect it and we honor it. We're trying to be as clear as possible to our obligations towards them. As you see, at this time in time, there are no health mobilisations for unpaid on-calls and overtime. There is something imaginative "happenings" - oligarchy usually - in front of the Ministry, in order to ensure and ensure some trade unionists privileged projection in the "principal" of the systemic media. The many people understand that work is being done and that effort is being made. Of course there are needs, of course there are gaps. But the way forward for a gradual stabilisation, moralisation and upgrading of public care, I think it has begun. We, therefore, have told all tons what our vision of public care is. In fact, it is the concept of equality, universality and the quality of care that the basic values of the World Health Organisation should be those that should put their seal on any change and interference in the health system. Mr Constantinople told us that we are circumventing these principles because - he says - we do not have the possibility, obviously, to develop the new model of primary health care throughout the country in the same way and to the same extent. That is what I think is a simple approach. The question is whether these structures and their staff will give their people responsibility - because services will be structured - the right to universal and equal access. We are also ensuring that. We had this possibility, ladies and gentlemen, by making use of the ESRB, of course, to speed up. I would remind you that before approaching us he was talking about non-pilot implementation in four points across the country. Now that we are taking it to 30% of the urban population, which is the big deficit, my dear fellow Member, and not to the countryside health centres, which have basically qualified staff with general doctors in recent years, there the public structures have been decentralised, after legislative intervention, which I saw you warmly support, Mr von Wogau. 4238, which effectively disorganized what was left of this distorted multimedical system that IKA had and then the EEAS.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u469	Minister, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u470	I'll try to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u471	There's a second Minister. You've got a second. You know all this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u472	That's right, that's right. We were criticised by Mrs Gennamata that we are not criticising the New Democracy and that we have a one-sided target in PASOK. Obviously, that's not the case. With New Democracy, our difference is deeply ideological and cosmetic. We believe that health is an area of needs, rights and social redistribution in favour of the weak and in favour of the excluded. Our project is mainly equality. The New Democracy believes in free competition, in the market of an obviously degraded and degraded public sector and in an emerging private sector, from which the EEAS will buy services. That's the model. We have said that we have a bias in favour of public care. We are not to regulate competition between public and private. We are clearly saying that we are committed and committed to strengthening public care, because that is the answer, as the literature says, to the health crisis right now. The private sector obviously has a role as a subsidiary. Obviously, there is a need for a framework of demand control both in the public and private sectors. E-government of the system obviously needs to be upgraded. And of course we never said that we would abolish the national prescribing, as you said. We're barely going to close her holes, because they were flat holes. And despite the fact that there was an electronic prescription, because no diagnostic and therapeutic protocols were incorporated, in previous years expenditure, and drug and diagnostics, were in explosion. And now we have an upgraded system. We have a new health map, called "Atlas Health" and it would be really good to come and present it to you one day in the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u473	Why don't you do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u474	So, you'll see what the Ministry of Health and EEAS is doing without giving a penny of sacks to the well-known computer companies that have broken all the funds around health information for years. With the pheasyness of the old system, we had nothing to do with it. We have no political reason to grant immunity to the distortions and diseases of the ERC. We will really be able to reorganise this system if we convince the citizens that this government can fairly, namely, based on the real needs of people and local communities, allocate the limited human and material resources currently available to our country. Obviously, we are also claiming to increase these resources within the framework of the new medium-term. And apparently austerity sets limits and restrictions. Of course, it is not just austerity, it is not just the memorial, but a whole system that has been created for years. This is a system of power, but also of deprivation of funds and the destruction of public money. And that is what has been done with civil immunity and government over the last 20 years. That's the truth, and the whole world knows. However, what the world is currently seeing is that the governors of public hospitals that have been designated by a remarkable selection process for the first time care about problems,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u475	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u476	...create a climate of cooperation within hospitals, try to provide solutions, they are committed to public care and they do not look to set up local networks of interests.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u477	So the others didn't care and set up networks? Why do you say that, Minister? But where do you say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u478	Mr. Comrade, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u479	See you later in your speech!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u480	Minister, you must at all events finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u481	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u482	All right, there's limits. Listen, we're not talking, but to a point!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u483	These days, as we have said many times, we have three legislative loose ends which we will try to move forward in the next period. One concerns mental health, which we had previously had the opportunity to say a few things through a strong dialogue. The second concerns supplies, a new supply system and the third concerns primary care. We are now having institutional interventions. We've been carrying the arrangement for the O.R. List, which is an interference with the moralization of the health system. And we receive praiseworthy comments from both hospital staff and patients. We will take these into account and we will have a final arrangement that ensures that in this field, which is a field of trade and exploitation of the disease, we will limit the possibilities for this to continue. I therefore believe that we have presented an alternative political plan. I didn't hear who your counterpart was.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u484	We made seven suggestions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u485	I have heard seven not proposals, but axes. This is prevention, health treatment, primary care, public information and medicine for all. Let me tell you that this is not a proposal for a policy. And indeed in the next period with those who are genuinely interested in unselfishly supporting the public health system with its honest powers, but also with the political forces that want to contribute to this history, we are willing to have a serious and constructive dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u486	Mr. Polakis, will you speak now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u487	A little later, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u488	Next round.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u489	After all the parliamentary representatives or in the middle? Just so I know how to set time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u490	To end the parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u491	We are entering the parliamentary process. My colleague, Mr. Andreas Loverdos, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u492	No, it's 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u493	Mrs. Gennamas has spoken. You know that, in the ordinary parliamentary practice, Mr Loverdo, we have a half-minute agreement since the President of your parliamentary group spoke your time is limited to six minutes and three minutes. In other words, we should go to nine to ten minutes with a tolerance of the Bureau. It's like that because Mrs. Gennamas has spoken. I'm telling you, and I think you know that there is such a matter. Tolerant of the Bureau, speak, but know that this practice exists.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u494	This logic is good if you increase it by a little. Why is she good? Because we have two ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u495	You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u496	We do not have the logic that the Minister is making his position and then he is second-guessing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u497	Excuse me for interrupting. In any case, the second Minister, on the basis of ordinary parliamentary practice, will be confined to the ten-minute second. Apparently, you're right. It is not possible for the questioners as a whole to speak thirty-five minutes and the ministers are sixty. You're right. So...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u498	If you configure it like this,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u499	That's how it's going to be settled, it's obvious.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u500	...then I'm satisfied with the tenth you give me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u501	Thank you very much. Come to Stepma, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u502	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a reference to the mobilisations said by the Minister, saying that it is an indication of how well he is - I am exaggerating, he did not say that, I say that - it is also the fact that the mobilisations are very limited. Of course, they are limited when the main axes of mobilisation in recent years are in the parliament a majority of the government. And because that sounds theoretical to you, and it concerns some people outside the House, but not you, Mr. Minister, you were not when you moved to Rethymnon - Mr. Kegeroglu informed me - to the then Governor of the hospital, Mr. Moschovaki, you called him "immemorandum", "the representative of Shoeble" - that was mobilization with these messages - "memorandum"...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u503	Did I say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u504	And then you put him as Deputy Commander at PAGAN in Heraklion. You were actors in the mobilizations. I also lived in half the New Democracy for a month, two of your parliamentary representatives from the three, when the two were EPPYs, who of course accepted. Not as a Memorandum Obligation. It was my political choice, and even with my hands I wrote it in the memorandum, so that the next ones would not change it. Because we have been able to have increased formal power laws only what has been agreed with lenders. For a month, half of New Democracy was in the Ministry, along with Mr. Patolis and you - SYRIZA, I mean - and you did what you did. Don't tell us now why there's no mobilization. The "Indignant", the Independent Greeks, the "Sptha". Who were they? This is where we saw them every day. Anyway. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a government that does not know where to take the political agenda. Where's he taking her? In the negotiations? They are the 'yes men' of the negotiations. It's all invincible. Where's the conversation going? To the debt? They take them every six months and back, having left the good deal February and November 2012. Where's the agenda going? On the channels? He's apologizing. Where's he taking her? Take her to the privatization issues? That's where half of their hearts say no. Half the Ministers say 'no'. Where should they go? At the ECHO? Mrs Zoe Konstantopoulou said - I'm treating a phrase of hers, it's not mine - to sign the privatisation of the EMSDDA you must be humiliated! Your colleagues ex-husbands, your consciences have thrown you off the hook. They poorly did this in the Chamber. We are not in agreement with this. They tell you what they're telling you. You are not even there able to take the agenda, and let all of this be said while you are in recession, that is, privatization. And I wonder - in support of Mr Koutsuku's argument - what you say you increased the health budget, where will you get it? You anticipated growth for '16. The first quarter 0.3 recession, second quarter 0.9. You're talking about equal boats now? I don't know. Reduced revenues you say yourself. How will the two hundred more the majority Members have spoken about when we voted on the budget? Where are you going to get them? It means less gross domestic product, therefore less taxes on the Treasury, which means less contributions to the insurance funds. And as I say for contributions, I would like to call you 'Minister of Disease', not of Health. That's a political designation, and I'll explain it. I used the term when I was Minister. But, Minister, don't get you wrong, you're also a "Troller" Minister. You didn't sign the last law again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u505	What law?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u506	The multi-project that came to the House. It is a second big text that does not bear your signature and yet increased contributions, abolishing transitional stages, for new insured doctors, lawyers, engineers. Remember...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u507	The Ministry of Labour deals with these things.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u508	Yes, but EEAY receives the contributions, Minister. Contribution increases go to the EEA. Without the money, how will it work? If it did not have 100, 150 million at the edge of the EEA, it could not make better negotiations on medicines and services. He's got it? He doesn't have them. I've told you since the first day you took up - as a substitute - that the only reform you can do is to get the management of the contributions directly to the EEAS. Mr. Katrugalos does what he wants. Whatever he wants! Two big bills, ladies and gentlemen, insurance and insurance Article 1 the other day, and Mr Blondos does not sign! Is that a Ministry of Health? Would a Minister for Health, conscious of his obligation to reduce contributions and not take it? What's with the contributions that EEAS gets me late, reduced? All that they said 'increase in contributions, reduction in main pensions in order to strengthen health' has not been done. With the dropper. But that's how EPYY can't go any further. Aren't you telling me, should we turn the dialogue to the social person? Should the government turn him to get away from the size of everyday life? What's that supposed to mean? To say there about the cuts in the CSCE, the destruction of the CSCE? To say about supplementary pensions reduced by 40% on average, some reached 49%? What's that supposed to mean? Something to say about the hires. But the minister says it's subsidiary. There's no Minister of Health who didn't get subsidiary. Minister, when I took September of the '10s, I hired to take control of legality, as quickly as I could, three and a half thousand nurses. Three and a half thousand nurses! A very large number, but the opposition, then, did not say good, so that would pass to the 'duco'. Three and a half thousand nurses! When you have the opportunity to tell the Greek people "I did this", not "I will do", not "the Prime Minister will announce committed money from the channels that are in public finances", from your memorandum. When you can make a decent health calculation, go out and say it. The first thing I hear about health is that for the O.R. lists, which is a draft law in consultation, if it comes, if it's voted on! I'll see what it says. I haven't heard you talk about transplants. Are you a donor? I haven't heard you talk about anything related to health. Only ideological references. That you are, it says - what you are, I don't know what you're saying - something you are, the opposite of neoliberalism, which I damn well understand what you mean by the term. Alekos Papadopoulos, you say, was he, a very serious man, after many serious ministers of health, ours. Well, you, for the New Democracy, didn't you find a reason to say? A reason for the New Democracy didn't you find out what to say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u509	What can we do? You asked the question today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u510	Are we going well? Aren't we going well? We're not going well. And at the same time invoke the people. Invoke the people who are not beating you anywhere. As we speak of the people, it is very close to hearing that the government has no confidence in its people. They're going backwards. Governments have the people's confidence and people do not have the trust of their governments! There you are. You're talking about a people who've left you. You're talking about old data. Mrs Ghost said yesterday that the new political connections should be taken into account. I think that is very serious. Ladies and gentlemen, we are making an effort at political dialogue on the basis of no political games, no good-doings, no blows under the waist. But, Minister, there is an open matter. We've been politically faced with your ministry. Even when they challenge us and insult us and say what they say. Besides, you say it at all levels. You are not telling me, however, when you took full responsibility, after Mr Kurublis - who has delayed six months to do the invoicing, which played the game of the five euros that we all know, and if we are given the opportunity to say today how bad and wrong a game it is, which did what we have done and at times - has you ever thought that in your hands is the health of the citizens and that you are at risk of misfortune? That you must be on the raids and weekends and nights, and at dawn, nothing bad happens to you and it's not your fault, but will you pay for it? I don't know how you thought about it when you let the games be for which Mr. Kegeroglu filed a certain list. Ladies and gentlemen, when it happened to me too, I had to put my staff at the ITHs, I didn't deal with it. I gave the order he's going to be in ten days. And there were people fighting in the ministry and they did it. I didn't care if it was Maria, Peter. Hence I have stood up, ladies and gentlemen, for all these years. I told them he'd be there in ten days, I don't care how. He was in 20. Medical staff and doctors, above all, took their posts. I didn't go to pick up from the respective Ministry institutions, the directories to check them out, to remove evidence, etc. Anyway, I did it like this and then they objected to me. Kegeroglu what did he say? 'It accepted 50% of objections'. 50% of the situation, from the first outflow from the Ministry to publicity, until the second and final, has changed. It didn't change one, two, three names that are good recruitment control and reasonable result, but half. So you put your hand in there fat and changed it. That's not the point either. My point, Minister, is that, as Mrs Christophilopoulou said in the most appropriate and polite way, and if we then need the debate, we will become more specific, that human lives have been lost. When human lives are lost, dear friend Minister - 'friend' is a rhetorical, dear minister - the Minister for Health is looking at whether he has any indirect responsibilities, is there even an indirect causal link between his delays, which were not now - as you rightly say, I sign this - because bureaucracy. Because the Greek State is really powerless and the Minister must become the last operator to become an act. So not from what you are right to say that there is and there is also in all the previous ones and there will be, but if he has allowed himself the mechanisms of the Ministry of Politics and does not create delays, which the world has finally paid, which had no positions on PIs and which have been sealed out of my mind. Mortality to them, ladies and gentlemen, was too great, more than 90%. So I think you should see this. You must feel the responsibility of this ministry in relation to human life and human health. You have to be a Minister of Health. In Greece - and I am ending this - it is a misunderstanding that the Minister of Health should be a 'constitutional minister'. You must be health ministers and that must be your goal. Economics, the rest, administrative, bureaucracy is a next debate. First of all, Mr Minister, you have not succeeded in doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u511	Mr Athanasios Papadopoulos from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u512	Mr President, let the spokesman of the New Democracy speak and then I speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u513	Do you have any objections, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u514	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u515	Mr Christos Kelles from New Democracy has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u516	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have just heard the Minister for Health Mr Xanthos, and I think I live in another state. Really everything is perfect in Greece! If I wasn't Greek, I'd run to naturalization Greek. Everything works, hospitals are fine, health centers work, primary care, CEDEFOP, intensive is all perfect! Is that right, Minister? That's what we understood. That's what you told us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u517	Whatever everyone wants to understand. What to do!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u518	The humanitarian crisis we had in the past four years, the deaths, the suicides no longer exist. Finally, it ended on 20 January 2015. The hundred million you have given solved the problem of the humanitarian crisis, so you have also abolished the ESS now, you have also cut supplementary pensions, you have reduced the main pensions, you have increased the excise duty on heating oil from tomorrow to January 1st and you have put a little tax on petrol because it is very cheap and you have also increased the VAT from 13% to 24%! To tell you now what you have done in health and to proceed, because I have returned too many hospitals in Greece, from Crete to Orestiad, the image is in all identical, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, you said before that the hospitals didn't collapse. You have repeatedly said - and I will bring it to you, if you want, if you deny it - that health is within the operating black out range, you have said it not once, but on occasion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u519	Last year in the budget we said so. Since then, it has been a long time and a lot has been done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u520	It's been a couple of months, yeah. Good. I'll tell you what you've done, then. In 2014, then, in the New Democracy with a humanitarian crisis, hospital funding was 1,448,000 euros, ladies and gentlemen. In 2015 SYRIZA took over power, went to 1.187,000, i.e. 260,000,000 less and in 2016 the budget was 1.150,000,000. I don't know what we're gonna do. Do you want to hear the due date? In December 2014, 607,000 euros were received from the General Accounting Office of the State. In July 2016 with a year and a half SYRIZA, 1.120.000. They've doubled. No places in hospitals, at least twenty thousand, medical staff in hospitals, at least six thousand. As a result of the workers, doctors who are overloaded with overloads of work. Mr. SYRIZA's Health Minister, for the first time, closes clinical public hospitals. I do not think you have any objections to that, because I will mention it to you. For the first time you rushed to the Department of National Defence to save you. For the first time in a military hospital, a newspaper program is being launched for a political hospital. You don't know that? Do you know that, Minister? Get the document on the Minutes. Which soldiers...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u521	We know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u522	Well done, congratulations. I'm filing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u523	But say why.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u524	I did. What more can I say? You don't have to. First time. You have the first. We're on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u525	Say it the whole thing, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u526	What am I supposed to say? What else is left to say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u527	That three positions of permanent pathologists have been declared, and until the others come, they've covered it...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u528	Minister, the announcements and good...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u529	You can tell the whole truth, not just the things they send you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u530	All the truth, you'll all hear it. The whole truth will be heard by many, Mr. Polakis, today. Of course you published them and did well. However, the hospitals don't have any pathologists and you got a program of military doctors a week to cover the Kozani and Ptolemaida hospitals, by name. I testified to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u531	What was we supposed to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u532	I don't know. Take care of yourself earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u533	Oh, we should have taken care of earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u534	Like this. For the first time we heard patients donating to materials, buying gauze at the pharmacies, donating to materials so that they can operate. Four and a half thousand recruitments were secured by the "Eura" New Democracy in December 2014, with the budget secured. Four and a half thousand recruitments were announced again by the Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, when he went to the Ministry of Health. It was April 2, 2015. How many of them were implemented in 2015? None! Why? Because they were prioritised by other categories of workers. We had before at the Thessaloniki Exhibition ten thousand hirings in the health sector by the Prime Minister. Does anyone believe him? Now you have declared positions of specialist doctors approved in the New Democracy. I do not think you have any doubts that these are approved positions by the New Democracy. I'm filing the paper in the Minutes. A year and a half later you remembered to publish them! [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Kelles, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What were you supposed to do? In other words, you have found the question of supplementary doctors. Where there is a vacancy in a hospital, we shut the holes with auxiliary doctors. This is what you do: subsidiary, renewal, renovation. I say this because I heard the Minister before he said they were appointed. These are positions of the New Democracy. You've been announcing them a year and a half later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u535	Why didn't you approve of them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u536	Because there were elections, Mr. Xanthi, why you did not vote for President of the Republic. What do you don't know exactly?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u537	Mr. Comrade, you don't have a dialogue here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u538	Don't you know that there were elections for the President of the Republic?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u539	Mr. Kelles, continue your speech. Now there is no dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u540	Yeah, I'm on it. It's okay. He's a fellow doctor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u541	It's interrupting, but don't answer. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u542	And now we're reading...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u543	Before the elections, you were blowing up the banana in the air, signing assignments. Are we serious now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u544	And now you want to apply a list of surgery to limit it - it says - the 'bag'. We have no objections, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u545	Can't you say that out, Minister, in dialogue?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u546	How will the ‘mail’ be restricted? Tell me about it. Install hospitals first, open surgical beds that are half closed and then discuss the list. While you're a doctor, I'm very afraid that other client phenomena will be created, other corruption phenomena. It's not possible for a Surgery List to manage it by a simple hospital employee. After all, we at Law 4238/2014 on primary care, Minister, were talking about an electronic referral to hospitals. That's transparency. That's an O.R. List. And as if this mess were not enough in the health field, it's not enough to close public hospitals, you wanted to inaugurate a new hospital that you found ready and transfer the health center. You did well. Does EPY patients accept?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u547	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u548	He does. Does he have a contract with EPPY? It doesn't have, and it doesn't have, because it doesn't have a good function certificate, my dear colleague. What happens now? How will it be financed? Tell me about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u549	From AEMY, from budget...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u550	AMY, to remind you, since you said that, is the one you would have just abolished, you would have become a government. You remember, Mr. Xanthi. Is that right? You remember well, you told the committee. It was the first time you would have abolished, first of all, AEMY, second of all, RESAN. If we look at the abolition, tell me. From AEMY how will it be financed? Why do patients in Santorini provide a disease booklet and use the EOPY? Since there's no contract with the hospital. Since there's no contract with EPPY. You don't know that. There's no contract between Santorini Hospital and EOPY.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u551	What does that have to do with the operation of the hospital? Patients are considered free of charge.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u552	I'll tell you what you did with the hospital.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u553	Ladies and gentlemen, what now? Minister, please. You have misunderstood your roles. As political officials, you speak here and not as fellow doctors.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u554	Good, Mr. President. Thank you. Can I tell you what they did with the hospital in Santorini? The Health Center was transferred to the existing building by previous governments and air traffic in the Santorini area. And, of course, some benefit from that too. We're here, Minister, to the closed pharmaceutical cost.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u555	Mr. Comrade, finish it up. You've got eight and a half minutes to talk. Please complete too quickly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u556	All right, but we've had a vacation, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u557	It's not the other people's fault.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u558	The Minister signed for the first time the closed pharmaceutical expenditure, the claw back, in hospitals of 570m euros. Is that right? Yes, sir. I said then that there would be no drugs in the last trimester of the year and I went out real. Do you know this document, Minister? It concerns the hospital "Achilopoulos" of Volos. "Don't write drugs," he says. I'm tabling it in the Minutes to get some knowledge if you don't know it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Kelles, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] 'Do not write medicines'. Listen. It's never happened before. It is paper from the hospital to the hospital doctors: "Don't write drugs, the money is over, there's no more," he says. Let's go to the hospitals.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u559	You're closed, Mr. Kelles.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u560	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u561	We're in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u562	Hospitals have been headless for a year. The proclamation came out, covered after a year, the commanders who came in, entered the sub-commands. And we see the day before yesterday again a vacancy notice. Is that right, Minister? I think you know that. And I receive a letter yesterday from a colleague from Mrs Moschaki - I do not know her wife, I am explaining - who has submitted her papers for a deputy commander in Ahepa. It has sent the letter to you, it has submitted its papers, it has passed a committee under Mr Giannulato. He interviewed and while he's waiting to announce who's going to command the AHEPA, the post is being reopened. Is that the denomination? Isn't that a party rule? Apparently, it's not SYRIZA. Of course, it's not your new Republic, is it? Take this too, get this right here, you have received the letter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u563	Mr. Comrade, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u564	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u565	You're done. You're not done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u566	I'm done. And because the Minister spoke before about CEDEFOP, CEDEFOP, yes, we appointed fifty doctors. One year later, the dead are two hundred. You'll tell me, would everyone get away with it? No, but some would be saved by them. And to go to the...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u567	Not to go elsewhere, Mr. Comrade. Come on! You're 11 minutes old. I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u568	I'm done. I saw at the "NATIONS of KYRIAKIS", Minister, your interview for primary health care. You said "is in Portuguese standards" and that is why you gave the WHO 1 million euros from January to June and extended cooperation with 2.5 million for another two years until June 2018. Didn't you call and want to go to the special courts of Voridis and Georgiad for co-operation with the WHO? It was you, wasn't it? What happened now? They gave 1 million and did all the study, did you give 3.5 million, but would you send them to court? Anyway, sometimes the delusions - if they're delusional - are over. And to continue, take Law 4238/2014 for primary health care. He writes inside things with details in paragraph 5. Activate ministerial decisions! The only change is that we're talking about a family doctor, while you're talking - and you're not questioning populism - about a neighborhood doctor. That's the difference, it looks roughly. Take it, see it, apply it! It doesn't have to be two years and everything's been dissolved.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u569	Thank you. Mr. Comrade, you're done. You've been talking for 12 minutes. You're done! Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u570	I shall conclude, Mr President. Unfortunately, you have no vision, Minister, nor do you have a plan. Plan you've got for a week, you don't! Everything you've found and given is positions that the New Democracy has announced.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u571	Mr President, ask questions! You can't speak for twelve minutes! Ask a question!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u572	Thank you very much. Mr Athanasios Papadopoulos from SYRIZA has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u573	Not six minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u574	If that's how much it is, what do we do? Do you mind if I make a concession?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u575	Give me ten minutes, Mr. President. If that's possible! That's where five questions were spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u576	Mr Colleague - with all the sympathy - we are in a way unacceptable in the process as a whole and we have no problem? I mean, you have made the President-in-Office's position here a witness.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u577	Share!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u578	It's six minutes of what you have to talk about.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u579	Ten minutes Mr. Kremastinos spoke. But can't I have that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u580	Mr. Cremastino also took his dentistry. You don't have any dentistry. What can we do now? That's what the Rules of Procedure say. You've got six minutes. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u581	Not as many as the others.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u582	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u583	Yes, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u584	I asked the previous President to use the former Minister's order to extend my speech and give some explanations - I did not give up my denial - and he said yes to me. That's how it happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u585	And Mr. Kegeroglu spoke for eight minutes, and I think...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u586	I'm talking about myself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u587	Look, it is not reasonable now to develop my views in six minutes as a Parliamentary representative, as the Health Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u588	Do you want us to change the Rules of Procedure this afternoon - to understand - Mr Papadopoulos? Can I take the responsibility of changing the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u589	No, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u590	What can we do now? I'm showing the greatest possible tolerance. What else can I do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u591	When the question of the river took place, I spoke for twelve minutes. Now you can't make me talk for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u592	What are you talking about? You think I'm doing my head here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u593	Yeah, I think so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u594	Don't think so, Mr. Comrade! You think so! The coin! What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u595	Two minutes we've lost that way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u596	Here you go, Mr. Papadopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u597	Start at least my time from the beginning. I, too, intended to thank the PASOK Parliamentary Group, the Democratic Independence Group, for the opportunity to discuss the National Health System today. After the debate yesterday on Education, I think it would be very interesting to have a sober debate with constructive proposals on how the National Health System should go. Of course, we are thirty-three years after the adoption of the founding law, thirty-one years after the start of the implementation, with a decisive contribution from both Ghent and Gennamata and many other health visionaries as a fundamental social right. And the question is: Is it broken up, demolished, collapsed, as the WTO claims with incredible teratology and repeats it here and New Democracy and a number of PASOK colleagues, who in its question charge inappropriate, unsuccessful, non-existence of any integrated programme? He was abandoned, they say, in his luck with the National Health System. It is true that the absolute commitment of the PASOK and New Democracy Governments to the objectives of the first memoranda has hit the National Health System severely. Suddenly, the promotion of the programming contract signed in 2008 with the then Minister and the Federation of Hospital Doctors for the planning of measures to strengthen the HSH staff and improve working relationships, on-call conditions, the remuneration of hospital doctors was interrupted. Repeal of Law 3754/2009. The gradual depreciation and demolition of the ERC began. We had a dramatic cut in funding to 40% of operating expenses, 11 hospital closures, mergers - removals of departments, "fresh" of recruitment to zero. Mr Vorides had announced four thousand recruitments and - to tell you all - in 2015 there were only one thousand eighty-five. This situation, together with the perpetuation of long-term distortions, malfunctions, wasteful transactions, mass fleeing of young doctors and undisturbed pensions, has led to the tragic deterioration of the public health system, the private sector premium, the commercialisation, the increase of private health costs from the civil pocket, and nightmareous deficiencies - the image described many times by the WTO is the result of these deficiencies that have occurred over the past years - the inability to use several ready beds, hospital deregulation, health centers and units of the CEN. In particular, in the islands and in the difficult areas, we have a very serious problem that goes on and on from the refugee-migration flows, except that they also welcome the visitors of the country. Let us say that the government's change on 25 January caused a total resumption of the government's attitude towards health services, against the EHS and the country's commitments. The visit of the Prime Minister to the Ministry of Health on 2 April marked what was said: a change of policy, a radical change in government priorities and a significant part of the universal coverage of the population in health structures, free access of all uninsured, family, refugees, migrants without paper belonging to vulnerable groups, about two and a half million people, financial support and relocation of the ESS in uninsured conditions, and support with human resources. I do not want to talk about all the issues that the Minister for Health has already mentioned and which give us the image of what we have been able to do as improvements in this period of time. It is true that in the field of recruitment, if we want to objectively see reality, we have a thousand twenty-nine permanent recruitments, a thousand four hundred twenty-seven subsidiary, two thousand four hundred fifty-six in total. Because the teratology for the National Health System continues, I can only tell you that the Trikala Hospital Cardiological Clinic during this period managed to do a thousand hundred and twenty coronaries and three hundred seven potteries, because it is true that the public health system supports it with superhuman efforts. With all the other things that have happened, we are in the need for a qualitative integration of the National Health System, for prevention, primary health care, especially in epilepsy, home care and health rehabilitation, which are tasks that go beyond the limits of a government service. They require a long, bold, humanistic health reform with a definitive approach. These steps that we started are being completed with all the efforts we intend to make in the next few years, as the reform areas are being supported and from what we can do from the European Social Fund, from the Community budget, from the Structural Funds, when we are surely able to convince that the good words spoken by European Commissioners who come here in Greece will also be translated into concrete acts. The government has announced its intention of Constitutional Review. A good step is to agree that the Greek Constitution will guarantee free, equal, free access to public health structures for fundamental social rights. I would also like to remind you that the Secretary-General for Public Health has announced what the Minister said, that we will now have the health map, for which we paid 6 million euros without there being one, we will have therapeutic and diagnostic protocols, e-registers of sufferers, electronic facilities for patients. We will be able to see the infrastructure projects of the new ESDP and the Public Investment Programme being evaluated, all that can improve health services qualitatively. We already have a Community grant of EUR 24.2 million to improve health services in refugee camps. The medicine begins to be treated as a public product, as a tool of equal and quality care. Special treatments were made so that we can have a quality medicine, but also cheaper for all those layers that need it. From the Ministries of Economy, Development, Health, Education, Research, the action plan for the development of the domestic pharmaceutical industry was presented, focusing on the promotion of Greek generic medicinal products. Private cleaning, feeding and storage structures are replaced. I must also tell you that at the meetings that took place here with Michel Servoz, the Director-General for Employment and Social Affairs, a great deal of discussion has been held on the financing of the public health system. I must also tell you that special meetings are being held for the financing of investment projects in health and the planning we have with the Greek Commissioner for Greece and Europe - the European Investment Bank - with whom cooperation has already been made at the Ministry of Health. So I end up with the following. The political issue of the fate and perspective of the National Health System is to turn what we are hearing today as a demonology, as a sterile confrontation for malfunctions which continue to exist and for the reasons why we have come to this point, to constructive conclusions, so that the quality integration of the National Health System can finally be achieved. And, of course, the challenge we are addressing is particularly those forces, which believe that when they refer to health issues, they are referring to a fundamental social right and a public asset. Because with these powers we want to continue the dialogue. We want to tell you that what exists as a left debate and the radicalised parts of social democracy in Europe must also be done in Greece, but with other tons. We will contribute to these tones, because in fact the issues that lead to the quality integration of the national health system are issues that must take us into account in the great tasks ahead of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u598	Mr Ioannis Aivatidis from the People's Association - Golden Dawn has the floor. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for six minutes. I would ask you very much, with the tolerance of the Bureau, not to leave much time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u599	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have studied in detail the text of the topical and urgent question tabled by the Democratic Alliance. I can say that there are too many very good comments and the questions that they result in are reasonable and the Minister should give explicit answers. But I have two objections. Firstly, the national health system, once it has been established, has become pathogens. The reference to the question put by the state in question by the current coexistence and especially by SYRIZA, I think that it is unfortunate, in the sense that it is carried out by the PASOK party. Because the ESS was used, I think, by PASOK to salt the state in those decades. Another second point which is merciful, as it is a silence of the truth, and I have to put it this way. There is not a single word in the text on the problem of illegal immigration. It is known that for 2015 0.17% of gross national product was consumed in migration. The majority concerned the health care of illegal immigrants. I would remind you that this has already existed since the year 2000. If you look at the first quarter of the year 2000, the PASOK Government, there was a deficit of about 341 million drachmas - around a million euros - related to expenditure not settled by illegal immigrants at that time, who were, in particular, Albanians, Bulgarians and Romanians. The diseases of the national health system have, in the last few years, been exacerbated: the substitution of hospitals, hospital suffocation and shortcomings in medical, nursing, paramedical staff, shortcomings in medical equipment, which unfortunately - and this proves the left-hand approach that the government has - favours business interests in the health sector. In addition, the effects of overworking and cleaning hours relating to medical, nursing, but also paramedical staff, administrative malfunctioning phenomena, empty positions of governors, and also authoritarian behaviours by some of them. It has been denounced, I must say, the commander of the General Hospital of Kirkras on this matter. About two hundred intensive treatment beds are non-functional because of lack of personnel. There are deficiencies in oncology, medicines for chemo. There are very large waiting lists for radiation in cancer patients. There is the economic opacity of the CEDEFOP, but also of sinful NGOs, many of which have a Syrian mark. They are the debts of the EEA which concern members of the private diagnostic association, members of the private clinical association, members of the association of pharmaceutical undertakings. I would also like to stress that there are also some errors in the structure of the PSY. It is a constant request from the hospital doctors in Corfu - I will refer to my constituency - to re-establish the Ionian Islands PES and, as far as the EAW is concerned, to have an EAW based in Corfu. I shall refer here to imported diseases. I've mentioned a lot of them. However, it is a very crucial point, because the government has chosen to stop the anti-physiological vaccination for the children of the first grade. There is the relevant document, which has been notified to medical associations. I'll deposit it, it's 16-9-2016. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Aivatidis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That's really criminal. This directive must be withdrawn, and why? In 2015, some ninety-five thousand people entered Greece illegally. Afghanistan has fourteen thousand deaths each year by tuberculosis and about thirty thousand new cases. Twenty - one thousand people came in from Pakistan, where Pakistan has forty - eight thousand deaths per year by tuberculosis. I therefore believe that stopping this anti-physical vaccination within the crisis, with the poorening and current of immigration, is a criminal one. Because you will stop being ministers, but Greece can face a tuberculosis epidemic. Finally, I will close my report with an issue which - and the Bureau of Parliament should also be concerned with - the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group. It is that the main ministers do not answer the questions about health questions raised by the Members of the Golden Dawn. In other words, we see a convergence of a mutant leftism with a pseudo-patriotism which Mr Nicholas Dendias had in his office. I believe that, in this way, you are identified with this liberal pseudo-patriotism by Mr Teddy and you should be aware that, as Members of the Golden Dawn, we will be shifting all legal means in order to get you to answer the questions of the Members of the Golden Dawn, because you are basically helping the health of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u600	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Vice-President of Parliament, George Lambroulis, of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u601	Thank you, Mr President. The enormous and steadfast problems faced by our people in terms of protecting and restoring their health are the result of a specific anti-population policy of all the previous governments, a policy which is still under way by SYRIZA - ANEL. Thus, the measures promoted and taken in health serve the basic strategic objective of the European Union and capital for the formation of cheaper workers by reducing health, that is, reducing non-wage costs, by cutting costs for the prevention, treatment and rehabilitation of the health of workers and their families. As a result, the medical care of the people's families is an increasingly expensive commodity, with an increase in all kinds of payments from patients, while state and insurance benefits are limited to constantly shrinking basic health services packages. Thus, the fact that from chronic patients, for example, 30% has reduced doctors' visits and 60% does not get his treatment properly are indicative of the cost-based impact on the health care of the people, which is shaped by the current government's policy. Just as all previous governments have done, the cohabitation connects with the cost and financial endurance of the economy, state funding and recruitment of personnel in dangerously staffed public health units, the terms and conditions for medical visits, laboratory tests, treatments, primary care services, medicines, care of uninsured people, etc. Thus, on the one hand, we have a drastic reduction in government budget expenditure and, on the other, a transfer of more expenditure, directly or indirectly, to the people. Just as the previous governments have done, it is exploiting the EEIG's "cut" benefit regulation with a constantly shrinking basic health benefits package, far away from modern and enlarged people's needs. In fact, in order to be acceptable to the people, the objectives of the cuts are the same arguments, as with previous governments, about 'household','restriction of waste' or'reasonable use of resources'. But these problems are derivatives of the system that the government serves and exploits at the expense of people's needs and rights, as did the previous governments. Thus, according to costs and reductions, staff are recruited by the drop-off, subsidiary workers and blocs, because they are not charged with the state budget, as they are paid for by hospital revenue. Thus, the government and, of course, the health sector also implements, with the above, all the anti-labour laws that overthrow permanent and stable work. It applies the movement from unit to unit in order to 'blue' such as the huge gaps from lack of personnel. With regard to prevention only in words and without taking any measure, the government continues its unacceptable situation, while the reorganisation of public primary health care services - and presents it, in fact, as a basic reform of the health system - actually maintains the current unacceptable situation in public primary care units for personnel, medical laboratories and services. This means that there will continue to be the completely inadequate and fragmented provision of primary health care services and the possibility of prevention will be limited in particular to the level of advice. The same tragic situation exists in the medical care of the people, since the government maintains all the anti-grassroots measures to reduce state and insurance expenditure, resulting in an increase in expenditure, namely, payment, from 9% in 2009 to 30% - perhaps a little more - nowadays. It is precisely the implementation of this policy, the Euro-Union policy, that has led to a state and insurance funds having paid 57.7% less so far, while the insured 43% more for medicines, while at the same time patients paid 14.6% more for medicines that are not compensated by the insurance funds. Of the above - there are others, but we do not have the time to tell them - the increasingly deepening trade in health services is confirmed, while at the same time, a situation is essentially established where the part of the free state benefits and benefits of the insurance funds is drastically limited because of their under-financing by the State and the capital. Accordingly, it increases the share of services provided on a remuneration basis, depending on the employees' financial capacity. Once the government has shaped its health policy on the basis of costs, workers and people cannot expect anything good, since the growth criterion for the government's business groups does not only prejudge the recovery of losses in the prevention and restoration of people's health, but prescribes the permanentisation of the present disgraceful situation. So, for our part, any criticism we make to the government, as has been heard many times by this Step and by the honourable Members, does not concern the lack of planning, programme or, as is sometimes heard - not today - incompetence, incompetence and other things, which are the favorites, we must say, areas of criticism of all other parties, political forces, etc. So, for our part, any criticism we are criticising the government is not about a lack of planning. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] Mr President, I will ask for your tolerance. I'm sorry, but all the governments - and those of you who ruled it - have a plan. And the present government has a plan. And they had plans, and they have plans. However, it turns out that these very projects, regardless of any minor differences between themselves, of course have a common denominator: the reduction of government expenditure, the treatment as the cost of the services provided, the gradual commercialisation of public infrastructures. So, basically, any confrontation between the other parties with the government - we have heard it here today, but also the previous period - and the argument that all the other parties are developing towards the government, is actually avading it in the direction of implementing anti-grassroots policy and health - is not only about health, it is about all the issues - and, in this way, trying to cover up not only the common Euro-Union strategy - which you all accept, as your thread passes through all parties - but you are already struggling for who will promote this policy in the most effective way. Well, you know, dress up as better managers. On the other hand, this strategy was agreed in August last year, the parties you signed the third memorandum. The same direction is being used - because it refers to the topical question of the Democratic Integration - which concerns, for example, the governors, when we all know very well that the selection criterion is one and only one: the promotion of this policy, through the administration, the commander, the respective government. We call it an anti-grassroots policy. You tell her what you want. This policy, therefore, is called upon by the respective commander to implement. In fact, let me say that the current government is probably doing better in this direction, in selecting governors with this criterion. We therefore believe that the prevention of diseases, the defence and the restoration of the health of the people must be guaranteed today and not in a vague future. Health issues cannot wait or half-treated, enter the balance of costs for the profitability of business groups and cover the government deficits created by capital. We say clearly, Mr Ministers, that there is now a need for massive recruitment of permanent staff in hospitals, health centres, in the units of PEDNs, as well as modern equipment to meet the popular needs of these units. Now it is required that people do not pay for health, medicine, laboratory and diagnostic tests. The free supply of special medicines, sanitary and consumable material, supplements from hospitals, health centers, units of EEAS to patients or people with disabilities is now needed. That's why you're not saying anything. The only thing we have heard today, which was the majority of the interventions, was the number of recruitments and whether they will be done and how they will be done. We don't underestimate it, but that's not all. In other words, you say that tomorrow, the government - and not only to the government, but also to the parties - was sending twenty-five or thirty-three thousand people - to the shortcomings - hospitals, nurses and medical staff. Would the people stop being a merchandise, even in public hospitals? Answer that. Answer not to us, to the people. Will the people stop paying for the drugs? Will he stop paying for services, even in public hospitals? Oh, no. Will health and medicine be deprived of? Yeah. You understand. Of course, we say that recruitment must be carried out with permanent and regular staff, that all the necessary gaps must be filled.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u602	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u603	Mr President, I'm sorry, I got carried away. We say that it is now necessary for people not to pay for health, medicine, laboratory and diagnostic tests. Now we need to make special medicines, health and consumables available free of charge, food supplements from hospitals. Now there is a need for full and adequate state funding for public hospitals, health centres and units of PEDNs. Now we also need full care and rehabilitation services for the people from public health units. We don't have to report them. It's been heard about vaccines, etc.. You all know them, especially those who were and are in the health field. Will it apply from 1-1-2017 that the insurance funds will not cover the vaccine for cervical cancer? Yes or no? This is one of the examples. There are huge problems here. There are too many, if not exams, but also benefits that have been cut in previous years and that you keep them. That is something I said before. That is why the Communist Party calls on the people to organize their struggle and claims. We say he'll do it now and show no tolerance. Trust its strength with organisation and struggle towards a break-up and overthrowing of this policy, so as to satisfy widened people's needs and health. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u604	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Constantine Barriots has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u605	Thank you, Mr President. I'm going to try to start, but I'm going to try not to get over my time so much as everyone else did. I have to admit I've done it once again. I don't know if I'm gonna make it again, but, anyway, I'm gonna try. I think that these debates, which have taken place on the occasion and the question of the Potamius and the question of the Communist Party, but also today, are a good opportunity for us to point out our political differences, but above all for the political shocks, to the extent that we can do so, and the points to which we agree. So I will avoid as much opposition tone as I can. It's too easy. Let us agree that the health system is in an extremely difficult situation with huge problems which have not been dealt with in the past. So let us not try, at least at the moment, to say that it improves or does not. The issue is that it is in a very, very difficult situation. I have said that, although I do not like the word 'health system', the basic concept is that 'I fill the container with water'. I have a receptacle that works and I throw more resources into trying to fill it. That has been the basic logic for many years, and that is the logic of the government, which actually exhausts the debate on appointments, appointments and appointments. That is a logic that has no end. After all, Mr Lambroulis has shown that very easily no appointments are always few and never enough. The truth, then, is that, historically, this system we are talking about, and the aft of which we are supposed to be discussing, was never a system of advancement. It has always been much lower than the money it consumes, because, yes, there is social, but also economic cost to any system, whether it is education, health or anything else, and it is the duty of all and especially of the progressive forces of a country to make the best possible management of money, resources, if you like, which they manage. So we have a very bad system by 2010, which produced up to 25% of the country's budget deficit. After the crisis he gave his place in a completely dissolved system, because precisely by leaving the waste of his structures, his structural weaknesses, for which - badly lies, became very little, despite some considerable efforts made, such as EOPY. In fact, the response to the crisis was the famous theory of fat: "I cut money and the system will regulate itself." Systems don't self-regulation. So we get to the present day that we have little funding. Either way, it's not enough. 200 million over, 100 million down are funny things. That's not enough. We also have anaemic budgets that have been exhausted. For example, last month, many hospitals had already committed 10% - the adjustment that was supposed to come, but had not yet come, at least last week - and involved drugs in many hospitals, goods in the hospital with shipping cards and without orders. It's over. Money ends now, and that's something that's going to be done all the time. Maybe the government will save it this year, but that's something that's going to keep happening. We also have a government which, let me say, is a little - very awkward. And she's awkward, because she has a certain ideology. Mr. Xanthos says it, claiming that we are in favour of the public. But, anyway, that is something we will be discussing again. We have specific bumpers and specific reference to a system that we want to set up, while at the same time we have signed a third memorandum, which includes all those arrangements and commitments, which the same Party has been fighting over the years. And as a result, we have a total immobilization. No one can move in any way. That is why there is the basic connection that exists throughout the policy of this government: but we believe, but we have signed and do nothing, because it makes sense to turn and hunt our tails. A very important proposal here has been heard and it is typical of how awkward the government is, which one would expect to fight because it is a left-wing government: "Out of the memorial health," said Mr. Koutsoukos. Inside, I say, me. I agree. Let's fight it. Suggest it. You don't have any money. To find this way, since you cannot discuss others. Suggest that we agree if we want to have any convergings. Find a policy. Draw up a policy. Outside the memorial? Outside the memorial to health. I think no one will dare say 'no' to Greece and I think also to the outside. It fits - where are you? - in a embarrassment if we stand up to the hearts and "we wait and save 100 million from here, and we drop them there, we take them from the one and we do the other". However, this thing you have to deal with is a Danaida Pythro full of holes, holes from years ago, with huge structural problems, which you do not even mention, you do not put them in your analysis, since the first and lasting one is appointments. 'We will make appointments'. 'I will make appointments, I will make appointments'. Make appointments, but the real deficit of the ESS was and it's a legacy. It is intrinsic and relative to the sin of the system, its administrative weakness, which goes back, is profound and is not reversible in the terms of old-fashioned and partisan rule. The idea that an enlightened team of morals this time will be able to run a hundred fifty hospitals from Athens in an effective way is graphic. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I lied, Mr President, I need more time. It's really graphic as a perception. He needs modern management. Modern management knows well what it is. If we look a little outside our borders, there is no system in the world that operates with "family" managers and commanders from the administration. There's no system in the world that has so many fired, so free doctors to do whatever they like in the system. And if we don't bring this up, we don't do anything, no matter how many assignments we can do. It is therefore necessary for hospitals to be independent and to function as autonomous public bodies, private legal entities, non-profit public companies, away from the ability of each minister to enter and "fly" whenever he wants and where he wants. This is a time-consuming problem that needs to be changed. It also needs a big redeployment of powers. I have said on other occasions, I do not doubt that you want to appoint not four thousand who are dragged back from the times of Mitsotakis and are not appointed for intrinsic public reasons - I will recognise not only for the sake of lack of funds - but also eight thousand do. The pace of departures is such that, within the memorandum, we will never reach 50% of the staff who have left. There is no chance that there will be functional units if we do not see things like five like clinics in this hospital again, if we do not see and do not seriously discuss a great redeployment of the powers we have, on the basis of what we have and what we can sustain. I have said again that if we do not do so soon, apart from the appointments and gaps of staff, there are also buildings here in Queen Sofia, which have begun to fall, there are machines that have been broken up and ruined all the time - logically, because they are outside their useful lifespan - and because we cannot raise funds from anywhere, we cannot draw on a memorial, because of ideology from the private sector, that is, investments that are secondary. So we're staying and looking at a crashing system and pretending we're making it. We're not making anything, we're just turning around - around the problem, and we're shutting down in the Danaid Pit with the finger one hole and running more than the other. It's not going to be dealt with. We need to talk about this. We are in favour of the public system. And we are in favour of the public system, Minister. Only we think that a public system is the system in which public funds meet the health needs of the population, regardless of whether health structures are state or private. I do not understand why national resources, a large private hospital working Greeks, operates by Greek doctors, with Greek nurses and have invested Greek money is not a national resource and must be closed or expelled. I really don't get it. But, in any case, this is a culture which is given and which is unfortunately taking us across. We cannot agree on basic things, because we have a basic ideological difference, because it is not ideological. The Greek health system cannot be state-owned, for the simple reason that 50% of its resources and payments have been invested, developed and directed to the private sector. He's not going to change around now unless...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u606	Mr. Barriott, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u607	I'm done. I just want to make two remarks. One is that we need to see the labour regime as well, which is outdated. There's nowhere in the world like this. And unfortunately I hear this barren debate again, whether all doctors in the whole system will be full-time and full-time, as if that were the problem. The problem is that no one goes to Amphissa's pathology, which has been closed for six months and with our ideology we can't get any of the city that has fifteen pathologists to run the clinic. There's our problem. Our problem is in ways. We have most doctors from any other OECD country and the health system is empty. And we'll keep it empty.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u608	Mr. Barriotta, we're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u609	Just a word. One second. I would just like to make one comment and finish with that - I am closing, Mr President - because this famous Portuguese system, which we will copy, says, has been heard again, says, and we will bring it to Greece. Just to say in a few words, because we will not be able to do so, no matter what the government is preparing for primary health. We'll see when he's fully testified. What does Portugal have that Greece doesn't have? Portugal has a health system certified. All its structures are certified, both administrative and medical departments. What else does Portugal have that Greece doesn't have? A policy implemented since the start of the crisis with political agreement of the major political forces. What's third? Ideals. In Portugal Christian Democrats, Social Democrats and a part of the Left have agreed that under an income no one pays anything from there and has escalated charges, from which resources have been drawn to do this. Here we have ideologies where we abolished five euros from everyone, with logically unbelievable. These things Portugal has, Greece finds it difficult to obtain and because it cannot obtain them, it unfortunately cannot copy the once poorest country of the European Union. Thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u610	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u611	Thank you, Mr President. Excuse me a little personal report. When the Government of Andreas Papandreou...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u612	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Loverdos, if possible a little quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u613	When the Government of Andreas Papandreou, with the Friday of August and later with George the Gennamas...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u614	Mr President, the topical and urgent question is PASOK and PASOK has spoken less than everyone in total if you add the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u615	That is why there is the Rules of Procedure, and that is why there is a possibility...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u616	What do you mean, Mr. Cream? Let me get this straight. There is a number of speakers and a certain tolerance from the Bureau. Now this tolerance has obviously been misunderstood by various colleagues. They thought they could talk three times a year.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u617	It needs to be extended. That's what I mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u618	It's just, you know, we need to be a little responsible in time. There's no other way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u619	It's no different.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u620	Mr. Papachristopoulos, here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u621	Without implying anything about the speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u622	I want to go back many years and say I'm going to make a personal report. What the government of Andreas Papandreou decided first with Paraskevi in Agrios and then with the late George Gennamata was a revolutionary step, in fact, no one questioned it and we were all very happy to join then, because it was really much incision in the field of health. I would also like to say positively about Alekos Papadopoulos, who I think was a very honest Minister, and he was even excavated when he went to remove one of the many privileges enjoyed by the universities. But I want us to land in fact, because I lived - and this is my personal report - over thirty-five years ago was my second home in the public hospital, and I say it and I mean it. If nothing more than everyone who has spoken, whom I respect, I believe that I am entitled to have. I would like to remind you, therefore, that it was indeed a revolutionary step and we all embraced it and then, with a lot of love and faith. But years have passed, and whether we want it or not this system has been degenerated. And very soon I will tell you this, to land in reality: International standards say that in the intensive care unit you have the right to have fifteen to twenty beds, or we go to a second address. There was a manager, I don't want to tell which hospital he had over a hundred beds. The sachets in health at that time ranged in armour and arterial surgery over 10 thousand and I am not talking about privately, I am talking in the public hospital. The 'partner' of suppliers was a given one. Only the equipment exceeded the 'part' that was made in health, by the suppliers - I am sorry to say it - but not all of them, but very, unfortunately, great in health at that time. That's the reality. It was a system that, while we all embraced it in love, was beginning to collapse and reached the brink of collapse. And you saw a treasure, really neglected, one minister passing after another, and nothing happened and saying, "What's happening now?" However, he continued to have his grief, because when he was spending the three-hour time, the glamorous hospitals, in the difficult circumstances, were resorting to us. As a on-call coordinator, I remember the incidents that came to cardioology and all the other wards in the state hospitals. Nice ones, good nurses, well dressed, we were accused, but in the difficult part of us again. What do I mean? Where we all thought this story was finally over, private hospitals like mushrooms would be thrown away after each other and the system was almost abandoned. I can argue by tomorrow. I am one of those who - if you will excuse me - have been screaming for years for the deficiencies in intensive care units. I put voices, because it was a "block zone" in the emergency departments every four days. Because in the remote areas of the country there are no specialists. We made fun of people with so-called rural medicine. And I did this, which I didn't even know how to inject, and they sent me to a remote farmer. For the first time - and I don't praise anyone - there's the enemy of good, which is the best. For the first time, this government - I have nothing to do with the previous ones, but if you want I can speak, but - at a time where there is no Greek to pay and which we have people who are poorer than before, it has given a burden to public health. For the first time, we saw ambulances, after seven years with strange competitions, we saw for the first one these hundred fifty beds, which then became two hundred, slowly filled. We didn't say the problem was solved. We've seen a class in the emergency department. And because I heard something about the governors, I had personal experience from my own relative. At 3.30 o'clock at dawn, she was the commander of the "Annunciation" there, present. A month ago the commander of the "Next" was also present at 12 noon. I am saying this because I have heard too much about so-called party administrations, and so on. Do it. Go for a walk to these two big hospitals and you'll see the difference. Friends and friends, I've heard too much about the question. It has an inalienable right for a party to ask a question and I think it is very right and positive. And I want to salute two - three, at least, of the speakers, such as Mr Cremastino, who makes his criticism, which is very tough, but mild, nice, constructive. There's no elevation in health. It's a very serious matter, and it's been going on for many years. I would like to remind you, however, that no one is with a virginity in this Chamber. We need the hundreds of millions that your party owes to health and about so much that New Democracy owes. Tell us. Do you recognize it? Will you give it to me? What are you gonna do? We need honest politicians. I want to remind you of something. I'm sorry to do this, but I want you to land in reality. Today a man with whom I have nothing, and I hope he will find his right, is referred to in terms of infidelity and fraud. Three times he guaranteed the loan of the five million he got from "SYRIZA BANK" your party three times to different banks and this is called fraud. I don't even want to say his name. The same man gave a private IEK - currently quoted - 4,700 doses with a repayment date after four hundred years. It happened, he had the misfortune to be a cashier at that time for the forty. He's going for infidelity right now. I would like to remind you that Mr Papantoniou had been convicted of 'before time'. Your people. I want to remind you that Mr. Mandelis will be at the defendant's stand very soon. So is Mr. Tsukatos. I'm not talking about Ace. It's a millennial matter. There are many more. So I think that self-criticism does not hurt. You do well to ask your questions, but reality is very hard. Because I hear too much about this Deputy Minister, Paul Paul Paul Paul, I want to say two words and my friend Andreas forgive me for whom I love and know. With Polakis in '99 - forgive me, it's one of mine, I say it's because he doesn't say it - we spent eighteen hours in the war zone, when Yugoslavia was bombing all over the planet. Paulakis is honest and has fallen the whole system up because he is confronted frontally with the complication. The rest of it, I think, is gossip and awkward. Finally, I should like to say this: I have listened very carefully to the seven proposals made by Mrs Gennamas. Come and sit down and talk about the e-health card, about everything you say. Someone's gonna ask you: 20 years, you guys, you were. Twenty years you've been governments. It doesn't hurt a self-critic at the moment, and I believe that those who did it won. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u623	Thank you very much. My colleague, Mrs Theodora, has the floor from the Centro Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u624	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President-in-Office, I believe that a country's level of culture is mainly evidenced by how it treats patients and, above all, patients, who are economically weak. It is not a country of civilized world that does not guarantee all basic medical facilities for its citizens. Unfortunately, in Greece every year, health problems are multiplying rather than improving. Of course, it is not the nursing staff, nor the doctors, nor our nurses who do the impossible under too bad conditions to deal with the difficulties. The problem in our hospitals is huge and was naturally even more gigantic in the years of the crisis. The pan-Hellenic federation of workers in public hospitals denounces the situation which we all know of. In fact, I'm filing a form detailing these in detail for all hospitals. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Theodora Megalonikou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I shall refer to cancer patients. Cancer patients, as you know, expect too many long waiting lists to make the necessary radiation therapy. The same conclusion was reached in the recent survey by the National School of Public Health on breast cancer. The greatest delays are observed at the standstill stage for radiotherapy. Of course most patients cannot pay the cost of treatment in private institutions, as it is too high, as you know, Ministers. The radiation treatment machines in Greece correspond one to one million citizens, and it should be one to two hundred thousand citizens. Lack is a given one. I don't need a conversation. One of the serious wounds we have faced is that large anti-cancer patients, such as the 'Metaxas' hospital, which serves all of Attica and our islands even - and I will, in fact, present a topical question, which I had asked the Minister since April - has had a damaged CT scanner for three years. There's no MRI. If that's possible! [[At this point Member, Mrs Theodora Megalonikou presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that his sheets are washed in 'Juneo'. Fortunately the "Juneo" is too close. We learn that from the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation he expects to give him a CT scanner. But the institution "Stavros Niarchos" has already donated a radiation therapy machine, which - listen to! - it is not delivered because - it says - the condition of the donation is not fulfilled, which provides for a ready reception area and a sufficiently staffed section. If that's possible! Give us a look at the teeth, too. Haven't you served the department you're taking the radiation therapy machine? If that is the case, Minister, I think you are directly responsible for all patients who do not perform their radiation therapy properly. If the patient doesn't do the radiotherapy he needs at the time and period, he's doomed. If the Stavros Niarchos Foundation is in the mood to pay the expensive machine, and you neglect it, then we are discussing a policy that has no serious and only responsibilities, Minister, and that is totally unjustified. There is also no justification for the unacceptable situation in Alexandra. The "Alexandra" maternity office - I think you know it - is a maternity ward, it's not a hospital. When I was first elected MP and I was informed that Alexandra has many problems with the host children, who from newborn days are hosted there for up to a year, I visited it myself. The unacceptable point is that even now is the situation. I'm going to file reports that still apply. So, babies are stacked in five squares from days to 12 months old, they've never seen sun, they're abandoned by mothers of drug addicts and they need methadone. [[At this point, Member, Mrs Theodora Megalonikou presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This whole sensational spectacle remains the same, although, Minister, Mr Polakis, you recognized it and said you would be curated. I went back, found the head of the neon department. But I think the situation remains the same, as it was before. I don't know. You need to take care of it. So, we see that health continues to follow the same tracks. I don't see any improvement. In fact, in my office I have received many letters from various hospitals in the country, although it is not my region, such as Lefkada, from Zakynthos - perhaps because I have been associated with Kythira - and other remote areas, which express their complete despair by saying that their state has abandoned them. In fact, I put two questions, one for the hospital in Zakynthos and one for the hospital in Lefkada, together with the timeliness of "Alexandra". [[At this point, Member, Mrs Theodora Megalonikou presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So, Mr. Ministers, you arrived after a year when you are health ministers to be in the same denominator. I haven't seen any improvement. What I mentioned to you, I've experienced them myself. I don't see any improvement you've made. The positions have absolutely no value, I think, if they do not work. Unfortunately, you haven't given us proof that you have brought a result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u625	Thank you, my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, before the intervention of the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Paul Pavlakis, Mrs Christophilopoulou, who has to take part in another committee, to which she is a member and is now meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u626	That is what Parliament's Rules of Procedure stipulate, Mr President. First, we're in the middle of it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u627	I know. He just asked and insisted on his request that the Minister speak after you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u628	Mr Minister, it is a pleasure to hear you refer to the ESS and admit its great contribution. However, I was struck by the fact that you have rushed in a few minutes to actually demolish Mrs Gennamata's proposals, saying that the Democratic PASOK - DIMAR, as we are today, does not have a proposal for health. I expected you to do it more seriously, having even taken a look at our programme for a new health system. Since it is not a little what came out of our last May Conference, I would like to present it in the Minutes. I would like you to see it and - since I have heard you invite us - we will be very happy to discuss everything we propose there. [[At this point the Member, Mrs Christophilopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Because, ladies and gentlemen, I will agree with those of the previous speakers - Mr Barriots is one of them - reasoned that he does not need just money or only recruitment. The ESS needs above and above all reorganization, which will give him greater self-determination than the respective authority. And that's what you'll see is the core of our proposal. The second core, for which Mr Constantinople spoke to you, which is the primary health care, is also a glorious glorious field, in which if you were willing to make your own improvements, I think that things would be better for all of us and for the country, for the National Health System, for the Greek patient and for the Greek citizen, because health is not only about the patient and you as a doctor know it well. If, then, you wanted to improve this system according to what you had to do in consultation, so that all the wings in this House could find a common component. I also address SYRIZA Members. I heard Mr. Papadopoulos talking before. I would like to mention, Minister, to a colleague of yours - and more to my colleague at the Open University - Professor Dimitrios Nicakas, who has written a small point of remarks. In this he says - and I think with a government-friendly attitude to you, to help people - and he refers to the fact that the system you propose does not directly apply and is above the outset. I mean, we're flying, we're saying a nice idea, and right now I don't want to question your own intentions, that you don't want to set up a serious primary health system. I also object to Professor Niacas' objections to the committee, and I think it is good to think about it at least if we want to have a serious debate on primary health. We insist that it is not serious as it has been presented and you will see that there are some shortcomings in your proposal too. [[At this point the Member, Mrs Christophilopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Finally, you told us about the rescuers. I visited the EKT recently. First of all, let me tell you that the hundreds of eighty-seven rescuers were the result of the implementation of the notice completed before SYRIZA came to power. All right, he's in the pluss. I'm not saying you're wrong. But, in order to put things in place, with the EKA rescuers - and you did well, I am not telling you about it, on the contrary - you have completed what the previous government had gone through. He had moved forward and had completed the notice. Good thing you got them, but we started it. They shall not be made for virginity. If you wanted our contribution to the positive of the other parties and the Anti-Population, you should recognise that the eighty-seven rescuers of the EAW were the task entirely of ours. Thank you very much, I keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u629	He'd been frozen for years!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u630	Let's break down, Minister, those nine hundred and eighty-five seats approved by the General Accounting Office of the State, and then we talk. Make a perpetual intake, one in the ESS, "number 1" and then speak! You spoke of assistants. No, Minister, it is the adjuncts you complained about and said that when you came to power, you would not hire subsidiary, because, as you say, they are the hospitals. The hospitals are being charged, and today you are being hired, subsidiary, because you need them. Be careful: We don't tell you not to hire assistants. To hire assistants! Don't show it as recruitment! It's the hires. It's the assistants. You cannot tell the world or baptize the auxiliary doctors "intakes". You can't do that! I think you should at least admit that this position you have taken, that the subsidiary must be abolished, cannot be implemented. Finally, I would like to say a word, because I think it should be said about history. Where we seem to be different to the concept - because I saw that you conquered Alekos Papadopoulos - is that the ESS is not a monolithic thing and we do not believe that as shaped in 1980 it has to be. Because I heard them blame us for saying what the WTO says, no, we have different views with WTO on several issues. One of these is whether to remain as a monolithic fossilation of the ESS. It's not like that. The ESS must respond to the new epidemiological data, population ageing, changes in conditions, refugee, and a series of challenges that the ESS is facing today. That's the story, Minister, and not whether or not we're putting in midday medicine. Of course, we do! And we're fine and we're good. In any case, I would ask the Greek taxpayer, and especially the Greek insured, what is best, to pay a small sum - I wish that we would also make it completely - EUR 5, going to the hospital, or having a burden, as you put on all pensioners and all those insured in health contributions. Indeed, Minister, Mr Loverdos told you before - burdening the insured, and finally the EEAY does not receive them. So we - and you will see it in our proposals, and I shall end, Mr President - say: 'Don't! Take EOPYY under the Ministry of Health and make the sole buyer of health services alone!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u631	What is it now? He's an exclusive buyer!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u632	As Mrs Gennamas said - and it is in our proposals - a public insurance body, that means consolidation, that is bold. That's how we thought about it. We have established it. But do it! We do not support the positive proposals, nor do we support them. You have seen that there are provisions that we supported, others because we believed them and others because we understood, having lived at the difficult times, having experienced the need under which you were called upon to legislate. We need seriousness, therefore, we need responsibility. There is no need for baptism and there is no need for many words and taxis. He wants work and understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u633	Mr President, before the Step is taken by Mrs Christophilopoulou, I think we should make sure that we can make up for a personal injustice in the face of Paul Paul Paul Paul Polakis. For an important supply of health care, it is unfair to criticise him, which is called the 'deadness of the health system'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u634	Listen, Mr. Papadopoulos...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u635	Mrs Christophilopoulou, there is no such procedure to respond to this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u636	You should have done it, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u637	What do you say, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u638	Everyone understands their obligations as they please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u639	When he referred to Alekos Papadopoulos, did I have to intervene and say, "You are not right, Minister?" Where and where? The President-in-Office runs the debate, does nothing more. How do you say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u640	Okay, as you think.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u641	I said the designation was a politician. I have substantiated it in the face of the ERC and have documented it politically at all times and not personally, Mr President. I could also go further than what you have heard and colleagues have heard about what happened with the flu. I didn't do it, I got held up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u642	Mrs Christophilopoulou, we are done with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u643	I really wanted to say it politically and not say it personally. That's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u644	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we must consult ourselves on something. We are completely out of time and there is a matter for the President-in-Office. I can't sit over three hours here and there's no replacement for me. I'm going three hours. Thank you. Mr. Polakis, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u645	Thank you very much, Mr President. In recent times an indescribable gheebulism has evolved. We say half the truths, we tell whole lies - and I speak about the side of the counterpopulation, with the great help of systemic media, electronics and papers - and believe that this will shape the terms of a change in the political scene. This scenario will fail. Listening to you at the last hour, there's too much I want to say, and I really don't know where to start right now. I will speak very specifically, because I am not talking in general, nor vaguely, nor with retrievals. I'm talking to names and addresses and specific facts and things. First, last year, since January 2015, I'm starting with the finances, because what you said doesn't apply! - by September 2015, the state budget had given EUR 300 million to hospitals - so much he had given from January 2015 until September 2015 - with a budget of 1,025 billion. This year from January 2016 until September 2016 - all posted are all, open and look at them and not, I repeat, what the WTO gives you, because they do not apply - 730 million have been allocated to a budget of 1,155 billion. That's true. Previously, what did you say? We don't give, he says, money. That's the reality. Firstly, the budget is normally implemented. Secondly, last year we saved the system because last year in October we gave 885 million. We did not just increase the cost limit, but we also made real money, so the system was backed up. I challenge any serious economist your Party has to question what I say and do not repeat economic aerials. Thirdly, last year, the EEAH, all this year - listen, these are elements, here we will talk with figures, we will not generally talk about it - gave all the hospitals in the country, including university and military, to the CENs, the Unified Hospitals, which owed around 85 to 90 million euros by December and paid 13,200,000 euros in the last days of December, with which the regular newspapers that were paid every year in the previous years, November, December, were cut off by 10% to 15%. That's what happened. This year, until now, the EEA has gone to the hospital accounts - not 'is signing credit', 'is down the paper', to say it popularly - 76 million in August, 76 million in August and something fine in September, and at the moment it has additional EUR 70 million plus 30 million, which has been allocated to university and military hospitals. These have also been given. That's the reality, not that I don't give any money. First year since he was founded, he gave this money. That is the economic reality. If you can't see it, we'll send it to you in detail. They're posted everywhere. Do not oppose things that do not apply, that is to say, whole false. And here we are, I say the word and tell me later. By the end of the year, we will reach over 500 to 600 million of the EEA grant to hospitals, without taking into account the delays it will give. Nor have I heard, by any of you, one thing that has no historical precedent, to give, from 25 July to 5 September, that is to say, within the summer, in terms of permits, 574 million euros over a period of time. You know the process that this needs. It happened in August. EEAY gave 313 million. Another 50 million have been taken by the EEA and another 50 million hospitals from the first dose, allocated over the next few days. That's the reality. Didn't you see that money falling? He fell to talk about finances. Now let's go to the staff. Mr. Blonde said it all. I'll just say something he forgot. We are officially announcing that two thousand permanent doctors will be hired next year as a first step. That's a signal. I tell our children who are outside, that what happens in 2017 will happen in 2018 and 2019, to come back, because for seven years you have not appointed a man born and come and move our finger "what you did with the assignments"! You're pulling the finger on us you and New Democracy for our late appointment, which you've built a rotten mechanism for thirty years that, to get one from here to take it there, wants three hundred signatures! And we've lost our sleep and run from morning to night! Five hundred sixty-eight. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. He's in hospitals since the nine hundred-eight call. The others are from the Ministry of Labour to eighty-five. Didn't you hear that? You don't know that? Don't you see it? Aren't the media you're reading, so you can see it and not be exposed? They're in charge, and the next ones are on their way. The table of the results for the six hundred ninety - one thousand five hundred thirty - eight will be announced next Wednesday. And this has been announced. And you don't know that? Didn't you see it written? They're the same positions as the previous one, so we're late to get the first one. The other eight hundred will be called. We'll try to get along with the thousand two hundred in the third P.S. that we've got to get out of here to get a call all over. Thousands of two hundred from the third PHS and eight hundred from the second to avoid making the papers twice. The eight hundred are nurses especially for Athens - Thessaloniki. The EOPY for the first time since his construction doesn't put a debt on it. Did you hear? Understood? Did you see it? It created a new clearing system that leaves the "sarakotrania" that you had done in previous years or as an EOGY IKA. One of those quoted today I think he was Commander of the IKA a moon. He said, "I give you 100,000, I give you my eyes closed. Take 90,000 and 10,000 unstable debts." That's what you've been doing for so many years, that's why the boxes were packed up in all the EOPY regional addresses, and the place was buzzing. Especially in Piraeus, they couldn't get in. Now the boxes are gone, they're gathering. Did you get it? We've entered the electronic age without EPPY paying a bill. He did not give a drachma, Mr Kella, and he created an electronic system with his potential, which makes the liquidation. They've already been cleared, paid for three months, paid for the fourth, ready for the fifth and the sixth is starting to get ready. 'Cause now he's speeding up the system and not getting a debt. This is the first time since the construction of the EEA, which this huge insurance agency - which is a purchaser of health services, is nothing else, slowly the proposal you are making - will not put in debt! With the regulation that we are now making on the due date and embedded as an article in the bill of social cooperatives, there is a serious possibility that the EEAS will nullify its debts by the end of the year in the way the liquidation takes place. It's the old 450 million that we inherited and we still have to pay. Because in 2013, Mr. Kelles, you didn't pay for it, even though you took money. You didn't have the functional capacity to pay IKA his old debts. There was money and you didn't give it back to the old debts then. We'll do it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u646	The due date of the EEA...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u647	There are now 1.7 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u648	That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u649	The first, almost 1 billion, gave health in the summer and the market was stimulated.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u650	Yeah, he gave 400 and 500.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u651	Let's go down. You said flu. You said, "The New Democracy," said Patolis, said whoever you can imagine. I'll talk to you again, so we don't talk stupid. This year's time is compared with the year 2010-2011, for two reasons: firstly, about the incidence of the disease and, secondly, about the type of influenza viroid, which was then and now. In 2010 they were seriously ill and three hundred and sixty-eight patients were treated. Of them, the hundred eighty-two, almost 50% died. This year, with the "closed beds" and "My Panagia, what Paulakis did with CEDEFOP and did not let them appoint those we wanted", four hundred thirty-five people were sick and hospitalized - that is, more - and a hundred ninety-seven died, that is, 45%. That's the reality. Do you remember what a fuss you were doing with malaria, with the other undetermined representative of the Athens Medical Association? "God, malaria and evil." Where's the new cases, guys? Where are the new cases? Where are these a month ago? Why now motto on this? Because there was no problem. A few years ago, it was much more. The mayor Eurota, a fellow doctor who pulled them out on his own, then what he pulled, with the door-to-door to block the story, answered. Answer Mr. Patulis and all the disaster that you're saying. Fly a lie one day, reproduce it "First Issues", "First Fleet", site and "You, my," do nothing and then "mom" and go to the next. You're doing this job. That's not opposition. That's a poor thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u652	Minister, let's shorten up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u653	I'm going into the last piece.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u654	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u655	We're screwed with gods and demons. They're threatening us. We don't understand. That's how I call it straight. It's not random targeting that has been done. Because they know the first time they've been afraid, because they've lost it. We cut it out because we found the equivalent. The equivalent was the blood sero-monitoring contest, which cost us over your days EUR 26 million and will now cost EUR 4.8 million. The remaining 23 million missing, which was the equivalent of the five-year-old, is the savings we have made in the rents that we paid for various ERC services. Only the RDPs were around EUR 4.5 million three months ago officially, and now they have exceeded 6 million a year. So we got away with it, and we're gonna get out of here and get some more of it. Don't move my finger. You'll hear them by the end of the day. Let's go down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u656	Is there a rival?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u657	No, there isn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u658	Why don't you want a copy?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u659	You also put a question and we'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u660	I've asked a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u661	At this stage, it doesn't exist. Let's go down. We know that we're "shooting" across the line. We've announced we're going to oxygen production plants. A parastate that had been created, turned, played a representative of the Ministry, using some of the EPA, to say: "You will produce oxygen not by buying the pumps and machines, but by releasing it to the three - four companies now present and selling oxygen to the hospitals". That's what we face every day. Listen to me. From whatever bands we can take, we can take it. We can take it. With the CDC - to close with it - what did I do? I certainly didn't do what you did. And I say that on the grounds of knowledge. I did not send biscuits to the former Director-General of CEDEFOP, as you sent over the years all the servants to the Ministry of Health and to the Health Department and Members who are involved in health care to tell him 'appointing me my own', because that is how you were appointed. And when we discovered that in two hundred and twenty applications there are eighty-eight wrong modulations, very well we did it, and we did it and we stopped it, and we broke it, and at the moment, fifty-eight doctors have been appointed by this notice and two-five nurses. Tell me a complaint with the criteria they entered. I challenge anyone to complain to me. The remaining shall be reopened by redistribution. For Zakynthos, which Mrs from the Centro Association said earlier, we had set up six posts for the unit, but there were no ones of interest. There was no interest in talking about nurses, I'm not talking about doctors. There will be a redistribution where there has been interest, just to open the beds and reduce the criteria, so that people can go. Because we did not want to fire anyone in general and in vain. We did not want what you - and you, Mr Kelles, and PASOK - did not want to favour your political friends. One can tell us that we did this thing anywhere in our activity. After you've made us nanny everywhere in both the accounts and the banks and everything! You haven't found anything! You haven't found anything! Because you don't keep us and the others don't keep us, that's why they're getting circus! I'll finish with two words, one for the CIA and one for the CIA. One of the cases of CEDEFOP being investigated - because I cannot swing the finger - is the well-known story that has been inhabited for years, and it should not have been in the public prosecutors' hallways and it is also in the CEDEFOP - OKANA Convention, which started with a decision by Mr Loverdos in 2011 on the appointment of a hundred and seventeen people, where he sent a document to the General Accounting Office to say that - rightly so - we will develop structures of the OKANA and we want to recruit seventeen other people. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] With this paper, which was never translated into a Ministerial Council act, the Board of Directors of CEDEFOP, chaired by Mr. Kremastinos's wife, signed a contract with OKAN and gave him an advance of 10 million euros against a 20 million-dollar contract, to do with the 20 million euros contracted in 75% payroll and 25% operating expenditure. In nine months, they eat all 10 million without recruiting a man born, because there was no cabinet act that would give approval to the recruitment and go and ask for another 10 million. Because they broke up in sharing, the CDC denounces the contract. It is managed by both the CEDEFOP and the CEDEFOP and ends up the first event and says "Now, you guys, what happened here?" Instead of 10 million euros, we were given an invoice for 5 million. The other 5 million are gone. Where is he? And as soon as the horror brings you a second card from Okana and says it's not 10 million, it's 5 million. But the 10 million had disappeared and went to the D.A. I, who I'm not a lawman, would have filed charges only on the NYPD's finding. The prosecutor asks for a second conclusion, a second check - which was completed this year after intervention by Mr Kurublis, Mr Xanthos and myself - because it had not been done, the Symposium did not do so, and it was completed. Now it's an element of pre-interrogative, and I don't know what he's saying, but I don't think he's saying anything different, because the first is terrible and terrible. Did you see that on a channel? Did you see that anywhere?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u662	Minister, let's get this over with, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u663	And one last thing, 'cause I can't move my finger. There are clear political and criminal responsibilities. Secondly, in 2014, before you left, you did not only sign up for recruitment approvals, but you signed something else which is a monument to a customer state, a monument to a para-economic misrepresentation. It's about your Member, Mr. Salma. Because I said to speak with names and addresses. There's a method called diagnostic arthroscopy, which you don't need. To diagnose the joint, there's the magnetic tomography. Arthroscopy is an invasive method. You know that, Mr. Kelles, you're a doctor, you're getting in, you see, and you're making at the same time. To diagnose, you have the MRI that gives you more information. Where is Mr. Barriotas, who is also orthopaedic, to confirm it to us? But they do in America because that's where they sell. It's medical technology, etc. Mr. Salmas, with his partners, has taken over the machine here. He then puts the Deputy Director of the Attica Hospital, Mrs Giannakaku - because I speak by names - to ask for the act to be invoiced, which does not have the Attica. However, in order to proceed with the invoicing, the ERC had to ask for it and said, "This examination was carried out. Make it. We invoiced it." How much did you invoice her? You know? Who invoiced her? It was honoured by Mr. Scandalakis, the former president of the Board of Directors and your candidate for membership.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u664	The C.S.S.S.S.S.C.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u665	He invoiced it 1500 euros, Mr. Kelles! This decision is signed by a former Member of the PASOK Parliamentary Group, Mr Gregorakos, as State Secretary, along with Mr Vorides, then Minister. What's going on? We are therefore honored for a diagnostic act, which is of no value, in the private medical office - because it has also obtained a medical license through some "tranches" and with the medical clubs - it provides evidence to the EEAH and is paid as if it is a closed unified hospital, that is to say, as if it were hospitalized. Isn't that a crime? He has testified for five hundred and fifty patients - make an account, to see the scam - when in America you invoice and the air you breathe, the maximum price for this examination is $450. We invoiced her again. Although, in fact, a transnational mechanism has delayed the adoption of the decision - because it has been invoiced by the ERCF again - it is coming out within the next few days. That's what you've done, but much more. I only said two examples. It's two of the reasons why there are dozens and I can talk by afternoon. From what I learned, the Corruption Prosecutor went and "clicked" the whole file, because they didn't give it. He's gonna make scorpions, cheeks and forty-footers there. That's why we're targeted. It's okay. Together with Andreas and with the whole parliamentary group, we will proceed with what the ESS needs, namely increasing funding, increasing staff, changing procurement. The 20th time the primary school will be announced - which is this time - we will do it, because nineteen times you have announced it, and all that has happened was the first time with health centres and nothing else. We'll reorganise the EEAS, have contracts with its providers and transfer resources to the public hospital. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u666	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u667	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u668	Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor for a second for three minutes. You realize that what is happening today has never been done before. I shall raise a matter with the Conference of Presidents. There is no way that the parliamentary procedure will continue in this way. The absolute violation with absolute contempt for all the rest cannot continue. Please, at least you as Vice-President, respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u669	Wait, Mr. President. I respect the Rules of Procedure. I personally asked to speak five minutes and asked the President-in-Office to use a provision of the Rules of Procedure which says that the previous Minister or Minister, in any case, when matters have been dealt with in some way, have the right to extend. And he said 'yes'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u670	That's why you talked. Now you have your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u671	But now, Mr President, it was not a question of dentistry. Staff has been raised and I want to reply on staff. Then I'll talk to my dentistry time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u672	Answer your dentistry and staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u673	It doesn't cover me, Mr. President. It's a huge matter. It was said, in other words, that the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the CEDEFOP is responsible for this whole story. I must say - and the Minister must listen very well, because I am the Minister who, after Mr Surla, operated the CEDEFOP - that I have not appointed one in CEDEFOP as Minister nor have I sent any note. Everyone knows that. Not only that, but I kept the Board of Directors of the previous Minister, and I changed only one, the Minister's representative on the Board of Directors. He was then the Macedonian Archbishop of Athens Christodoulos, a member of the Board of Directors, as a representative of the Church. Why am I saying all this? The CEDEFOP has a Board of Directors unpaid, whose members work in their jobs. He's not there, he's not in the CDC. One person who was in Denmark, outside Greece, had even been appointed president of the Board of Directors. You should know that. The Board of Directors of the CEDEFOP is unpaid. That means they do other jobs, they don't go to CDC. The main mechanism of the CEDEFOP - and I want this to be heard by the House - is the Minister, who has his representative on the Board of Directors, and the JHA, appointed by the Minister and controlled by the CEDEFOP. If the ERIC or the legal advisor of the ERIC does not tell the Governing Council that something exists and needs to be changed, the Governing Council shall not be present within the ERIC. They are people who are excellent scientists, but who are not part of the CEDEFOP. This is clear both for justice and for everyone. So if there are responsibilities in the CEDEFOP, we need to look at what is in its political problem and the CEDEFOP itself. I'm making it clear for a millennium time. And whoever wants to question me on this point. There's no question of that. That's how the CDC works. Mr President, that is the point. Secondly, I'd say good for the ministers who are looking to find scandals, lead to justice for everyone, etc. We're with them. But let me tell you something else. Health expenditure has been spread four times in 2004 to 2009, when 200 million of the CEDEFOP still pays back, - 200 million has been allocated, not 1 and 2 million, and 3 million that we are talking about - when cameras have been purchased to collect at the airport those entering the country and having fever - nowhere in the world is that -. Vaccines have been purchased which did not buy even America with a population of three hundred and fifty million. They've been purchased antiviral medications that have rotted in the warehouses, and there's been information, advertising, as you want to say. You understand. I am talking about the Board of Directors of the ERIC in a new Republic. Mrs Bakoyannis asked for a committee of inquiry to be held. Mrs Bakoyannis asked. Where does it make sense to search the ministry? To search for all CEDEFOP, to search the CEDEFOP, to search for its employees, and not to say, by name, "the chairman of the board of directors". The chairman of the board of directors shall never intervene unless the Legal Adviser tells him that he has a problem if he does not tell him the JHA, unless the Minister tells him. To tell him that "sir, you have a problem and I'm kicking you out". After all, this has proved to be true. Mr Paulakis, when he disagreed - well or badly, I am not going to take this issue - with the President of the CEDEFOP. Classic proof that politics is the problem. So they come here to trouble people who have been transparent throughout their lives and listen to the judges and the press of the various strange things. That's the truth about CDC 100%, not 99%. Whoever wants to say anything. I'm just finishing up with the CDC. Let the justice know what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u674	Eighty percent, I agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u675	I don't know, Mr. Polakis. In 100% you'll agree. I am not going to go into that. But look at the innocent and the guilty. I'm with you, as far as the guilty are concerned, but not messing with the innocent. Let's get this straight. That's the truth. Let's go down. I now come to the question. He said Mr. Xanthos that Papandreou and PASOK were not the generators of the U.S.S.S., that the world brought it and accidentally, let's say, that government did it. That's a theory that might exist as a theory. But let me tell you that the October Revolution had a revolution of some hundred and fifty years, but it is credited to Lenin, it is not credited to the hundred and fifty years. In the Cuban revolution the world was boiling - there is no doubt - against Batista, but it was not Fidel Castro and Che Guevara that nothing was going to happen and the world would go on its own in the streets to understand power. So I think we should keep the symbols. And I remind you of your compatriot Eleftherios Venizelos who says "the man makes the generation and not the generation man". That means he needs a leader. And the leader of the country was Andreas Papandreou at the time. And I shall end, Mr President, with something else personal again. Mr. Xanthos spoke of Mr. Papadopoulos. If you disagree with what he did - I don't disagree - change it, change it. Do you want me to tell you something else? When I took over as Minister, part time had been passed by the previous government, i.e. a doctor could be in both the ESS and outside the ESS, to have a doctor's office. I'm the one who withdrew it. I just took it. Look at the law! The full-time job has been imposed on me. So do it! There's no reason you don't do this and blame people. I, too, banned the chains of diagnostic centres. Do it! I did it by law. There were no chains of diagnostic centers. And I come to the private clinic. When did private clinics become equal to hospitals? In 2004. Was it allowed at my time to take place in private clinical practice, which was done in higher health care, in hospitals? Never! Do it, bring the laws back! Why don't you do it? So it's a big injustice not to tell the truth. The truth has to be said. Mr President, the truth, the truth! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u676	Thank you, Mr. Kremastino. Mr. Koutsoukos has the floor for three minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u677	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] I will not deal with the delirium of the Deputy Minister, because we said there is no reason to deal with a man who has not only lost his credibility, but also feels proud to have abolished the five-year-old who would collect 15 million, and made contributions to get 1 billion out of the pensioners' pockets of whom he reduces pensions and pays it now. Also, we do not need to deal with a man who feels proud that this year fewer died as a percentage than the ones who died in 2010. In any case, we leave him to his misery and to his pettyness. And that's because he didn't tell us anything about health problems, namely how a man will have access to quality health services, how a man will not put his hand in the pocket, how he will find the tests without having to pay and how he will not die in the hospitals in the district transiting to Athens. That is what concerns the citizens, and that is why we have also asked this topical question. All the evidence, Minister, shows that the system is actually falling apart. You may live in your world. You're talking about funding. We have told you a few facts and you have tried to answer them. Have the time-limits increased or not? Do they pay the hospitals from their budget, since they cannot be recruited permanently? Are hospitals paying for the medications of patients in the long term? There are people who call us and says he's going to the hospital with a heavy disease and can't do the injection, he can't do chemo and so on. Are there any of these? Obviously there are and you can't deny them. So, where does the system improve? Where are the recruitments for which you've put a mechanism and watched them? Earlier, I told you about the hospitals of Elias, where no intake has been made since you've been ruling. I do not want to get carried away and respond to the distraction you are trying to make to hide your political poverty and dead ends. I've reached conclusions, and I want to say them in public. Since a party that was ahead of the trade unions and used all their arguments as fighters to drop the memorandum, it came today to blame them, as Mr Xanthos did, in his own way, for the leadership of the WTO, as Mr Vernardakis did the other day for the leadership of the ADEDY, and as Mrs Fotou did for the workers in the Ministry of Labour, it means that she has suffered a complete mutation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Because, as a member of the social movements and the struggles, there has been an extension of the defence and implementation of a tough memorandum, which requires renegotiation, so that we can resolve health issues as well. Otherwise, Minister, there is no way. You will collapse along with the collapse of the system until there is a change of correlations that will allow another plan for the country. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u678	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Constantinople has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u679	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, you said that neoliberal policies began to be implemented from Mr Papadopoulos' time and you mentioned a typical example of this afternoon's medical practice.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u680	'From the time of Mr Mitsotakis' I also said that he continued.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u681	From the afternoon medics you said, which wasn't at Mitsotakis, it was Alekos Papadopoulos'. I would like to say to you - and I think you have my experience - from the hospital 'SHOIRIA' from the radiology department. They're still getting afternoon medics in difficult conditions. You haven't abolished them in the law. You could have abolished them. You've been at the Ministry for two years. I want you to know there was a big patient facility. Because for these tests, for example for CTs, they went next door when someone was in the hospital and did them in the private office. He didn't take the money to the private sector. He lived in public. The doctors were also paid and he had the hospital and a stock to help. And most importantly, it got quicker and faster. I think that is not a neoliberal policy. If you think she's neoliberal, that's your right. And now we're going to the theme of primary care. You say something very simple, which is self-proof to see. You say we will appoint two and a half thousand doctors who will have - you say - a reference population around two to three thousand. Because you're invoking the literature, I can tell you from the literature that a doctor has never gone two to three thousand. There's no bibliography. Five hundred, eight hundred, a thousand two hundred. Two or three thousand there's nowhere in primary care. I'd like you to bring me the literature.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u682	I have unlimited literature.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u683	I will present to you a literature on the development of primary health care. Lionis, Myloneros, Panagiotopoulos, Antoniadou. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] But I'm over that. You say you have two thousand doctors, three thousand, and a ten thousand reference population per two thousand. What's two thousand? Twelve thousand? For 12 thousand. The project you're talking about in primary care, the pilot, will be about two hundred and twenty thousand people. Wasn't it supposed to happen? It's done. But what you're saying is not seven million, not five million, not a million, but the best preconditions you make, two hundred and twenty thousand people. Minister, let me tell you something, because I think you are in a very good mood. You know very well that if there is no global budget - and that is our difference - if the health system with a purchaser of EOPY cannot put a private and public sector in place, I will ask you after six months to do so, how many pediatricians will you join the system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u684	Thank you, Mr Colleague, for the time. Mr Papatheodorou has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u685	Minister, I have heard you and I must tell you that I agree with you on the cooperation you have in the Ministry of Health. I'm really sorry. I have already heard Mr Polakis, and I really am ashamed of the level of ministers of the Greek Government. But that doesn't matter. It is important, therefore, that you have not answered me and I say that you have not answered me for this reason. You said and I heard it very carefully, and I noted it: 'Or we want high-cost medicines or we will raise health budgets and expenditures'. I think you understand, too, that this is a false mistake. And it's a false dilemma for this reason. When we say that it takes 250 million more, Minister, this throughout Greece, to close time, we expect the Minister of Health to tell us whether they will come and where they will find it. I would like to tell you that in recent years - and I have the information that is publicly available - you have to tell us where the money is to be provided for the debts to the pharmaceutical companies so that new medicines can be purchased. Because what matters to me and to every citizen is to give the medicines to the patients of the vulnerable groups who need them. Do you want me to tell you what these amounts are until July 2016? In the EEA public debts to pharmaceutical companies are 836 million. The hospitals are 496 million. For the military 23 million. Over - down - 1.2 billion. That's what should be given, isn't it? In hospitals right now, I'm only talking about the two hospitals in Patras, at one to close time and give the drugs to vulnerable groups at the University of Rio, and also to "Aghios Andreas" 3 million. The question is not whether we choose one or the other. The question was simple: Will they be given? Because if they are not given, there are no medicines - that is the question - along with the other shortcomings, Minister, which exist in hospitals. For the proper functioning of a hospital of what I mentioned to you, the university, it takes three hundred nursing staff today from the four hundred and organic posts that are empty. But I'm telling you about the needs and the needs come out when they've accumulated forty thousand hours of day, which have not been attributed to the workers. And of course, a word about the workers should be said today, namely that by personal sacrifice these hospitals operate. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, I will not abuse the time. What I am saying, Mr Minister, is that needs are multiplying. We do not take any responses to the major question at least, about how the vulnerable groups and patients, who are currently in direct need, can take their medicine from the hospitals and where you will find the money so that you can give it. I told you that, according to my information - if you have any better, here I am listening to them - 250 million is for all of Greece and 13 to 15 million for the Achaea region. He's at your disposal. This data does not come from the WTO, Minister. They come from scientific associations, come from scientific work and are data. As for 1,200,000, when the government finds it to give it to the pharmaceutical companies, we will see for the rest how the drug flows will continue in hospitals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u686	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for ten minutes. Please respect the time. We are completely out of the line and there are some basic things to respect for the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u687	Mr President, I have a right to secondary education.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u688	Mr. Loverdo, you spoke 12 minutes last time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u689	But we had it settled. And with your tolerance. But I still have my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u690	Mr. Lovedro, instead of six minutes and three, a total of nine, you spoke 12 minutes ago. It's not the issue now for the three minutes of dentistry. You should talk. Minister, if you'll excuse me for calling.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u691	You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u692	Mr. Loverdo, if possible for three minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u693	I'm sorry, Minister. The President called before I lifted my hand to exercise my right to secondary education. I would like to give two, three additional elements, on the basis of which of course what has been heard. My main speech on health issues in this question covered almost all of the issues I had to raise. Because there are occasional references to this House for some millions here, some millions where they are being saved, I would like to stress, Mr President, that we support them when they are justified and useful. Similarly, when we had to make the 5,400,000, 000, only for the medical cost of the insurance funds - not the hospitals, only for the insurance funds -, for the 3,000,000, within a year and deliver mechanisms so that the next government could reach it under 2,000,000,000,000, we had SYRIZA all over. He did not vote for any reform that was then useful and necessary and supported no attempt to break down waste and corruption. So because some people are trying to say that they too are doing something - of course, if something good is done, we are supporting it and we have done it two years now - we have to stress that in the big areas that took place in the period 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 there was no corresponding support. The gentlemen of SYRIZA flew a kite, so I could speak even more intelligiblely. Now, one of these pillars of her attack on me, Mr. Xanthi, when I was in your place, was Mr. Patulis, who was present in all the occupations, demonstrations and propagandas. I'm telling you, I didn't have any political relationship or any support from the Athens Medical Association at the time. He has issued on April 6, 2016 a communication with a statistic. According to this statistic - by Mr Patoulis and the Medical Association, not by me, because I am not in a position to monitor these as a Member of the Anti-Population - from the beginning of the epidemic to the present day have lost a hundred and eighty-five people. In my period, Minister, when this issue was in crisis, it was very acute, because we did very quickly for intensive care units...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u694	We've answered that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u695	Please. In my period, therefore, in 2011, we had fifty-four deaths and in 2012 forty-three. I want to testify to that, please. It's the medical club. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Why am I saying that now? I'm saying it to connect it to something I said in my first speech. That with alpha, beta, gamma, delta political mood and choice, the Minister tried to recruit medical staff to the ICUs to do what he did. These issues are being assessed and they are in justice. I won't stand, I told my prototype. But when there is this delay, which has not arisen from bureaucracy, but from political interventions that are now judged in justice, then we must be modest and restrained to talk about this particular issue, which is about the CEDEFOP. Colleagues - who are not legally required to know - must know that there is a death caused by gross negligence. All this is under judicial control, Mr President, and the weather will show it. But we are not oppositioning them. We are challenged here, and we are tabling them, because this is a very serious side, but very serious of the truth, and it is about health 100%. There's talk of the CDC in its relationship with the OKAN. Now Mrs. Malliouri has sent me a message, Mr. Xanthi, and she tells me she hasn't been invited to testify yet. She has not been asked to say anything about it, but there is not the slightest uncovered expense. As far as the political objective, for which this money went, is concerned, the National Representation must once again listen to this, because that is what it is all about. For anyone who knows the subject - and you know it, Mr President - there was the so-called 'list of shame'. The 'list of shame', as Mr Karamanlis called it, of the people who expected to get methadone or get into the OKANA programmes, who all expected that a government would eliminate it. What did I do, Mr. President, then? I spent the whole story of OKANA in hospitals, with the municipality's agreement and after long consultation. As a result of this policy, this action supported by OKANA and CEDEFOP - OKANA took action, it was my decision to do so - in many areas of Greece, such as Thessaloniki and Athens, to a large extent, there was no longer a waiting list anymore. And I have candidate victims, candidates dead in this effort, who even now if they meet me on the street thank me. But listen. In order for this action to take place, the CEDEFOP had to work with OKANA. In their cooperation, Mr President, a problem arises from the previous government. Mr. Xanthi, it was the Makri and Malliori dispute. These trials are being conducted, and for Mrs Maliouri, things are going very well. She condemns her opposition, and it is a matter of concern to her and is in her favour. I have not heard a debate about this in positive actions. From Truba to Piraeus, OKANA left and went to the hospital. It did not disappear, economic life developed in the place of excrement and misery that existed there, there is real life. You need to say something about them, because you are discrediting an action, so that you can make a more general policy. You're hitting people, and I'm obliged to defend both Mrs. Cremastiu and Mrs. Malliouri. You hit people and you can't understand the efforts they had made at the time. If there is an issue of uncovered expenditure, Mrs Malliori assures that there is no one. It'll prove. If there is a matter of their own - because the Minister does not sign these - which relates to a change of code, we will see that. It will be checked, but the money given for an action that has taken place, saved people, presenting them as you present them and hitting people, you will have to think about it again. You should rethink very well what you are doing, and answers should be given.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u696	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u697	Mr President, there are the responsibilities that I have mentioned on matters where justice has now been involved and which do not concern previous cases. Mr. Xanthi, I've learned that the ones you've been to the D.A., most of them, if not all, are the ones we've gone and they're stalling. Beat the issues of delays, not hit anyone you find in front of you, to listen to a audience that is not and has to understand what you're saying. Know one thing: we are in the mood, as a parliamentary group, to support all the good things and to criticise what is not going on or which we consider to be negative, but anyone who dares to touch a man who has fought, who has been torn to do some things, who have been killed in this difficult attempt of years, will find us not only confronted, but we will bring you every day in front of your daily responsibilities and in the hardest way. That's enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u698	Minister, please respect the time. Your tritology was five minutes. You'll get ten, but not eleven. Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u699	I do not think I will need them, Mr President. Because you're talking about targeting faces, this story...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u700	I was kind. I was listening to the debate between you two and I did not make any speeches.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u701	This story you have organised and coordinated systematically in recent years. And today Mr. Georgiadis, who spoke specifically about our colleagues, about SYRIZA MPs, for officials of the Ministry...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u702	Are you telling us this?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u703	...and then Mr. Kegeroglu came in and talked about the Secretary-General of Public Health. This attempt to target people on the left and the effort to throw mud is a process of self-return.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u704	Are you telling us this?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u705	Wrong target you chose and I tell you straight away. You have also made progress in one more step. You have started a story of criminalising political controversy. Since when, Mr Loverde, do the political bodies, the MPs and the ministers in charge of criminal offences go to court because, in their view, they do not carry out their political duties properly? Since when did the trade union federations, like the WTO, say we've opened forehead? We haven't opened forehead with unionism, Mr. Koutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u706	I can see that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u707	We have opened forefront with those in the name of trade unionism and without actually representing the world of the health system, they are making mistakes and criminalising political controversy. The WTO and Mr. Patoulis go to the courts and resign, testify to prosecutors that the ministers are accountable for criminal negligence, that the ministers leave the world and die helpless, that the ministers are responsible for the anticipation of public care, that the country is a sanitary minefield. Take care of yourself. Another criticism is to play with public health and with people's sense of security against public health services and the health system. That's what you're doing right now. I would ask you very much not to defy political controversy by speaking of gauzes and syringes. The world has a criterion. This criticism, which you are presenting, is simplistic and easily reversible. The health system is costing 1.6 billion, and sometimes, in some cases, in the past - particularly in the past - because I do not currently hear any shortages of cheap health material - in short, it is due to the fact that there is a system of supplies that you have made, with enormous pathogens and distortions, such as the Price Observatory and not a real lack of money. The hospital funds are currently available for more than EUR 150 million, because precisely because there is a system of supplies blocked, because there are no mechanisms in hospitals in time to integrate expenditure, because the Court of Auditors is creating problems for other reasons, there are real difficulties. But, at the same time, as you know very well, there are very expensive tests carried out in hospitals and there is no single citizen lacking the necessary treatment, even the most precise one. We provide people who have rare diseases of expensive orphan medicines and we do so as much as we can without excluding anyone. Indeed, the level of services offered by the health system is particularly high. So do not insult the world, its work and its inadequacy, creating this image of the world’s destruction and consummation. A few months ago, "NEA" wrote a large entry: "The country in the mercy of microbes and epidemics". Is that political controversy? Well, we are really fighting a very big battle, and the election of Yannis Bascozou to the executive body of the WHO shows that the country is now serious in Europe and is valid. We go to international organisations and talk and they hear us and they recognize the enormous effort we have done to ensure that there is a decent and scientifically acceptable health management of the refugee issue. We have not allowed this critical social problem that divides and divides Europe into a public health problem. We have received the credit from both the European CDC and the US and the World Health Organisation. It is not a third world country, ladies and gentlemen. It is healthly safe and we have done so with great effort and thanks to the contribution of excellent scientists it has. You cannot play and plunder in this way, because you are harming people's and society's security towards institutions such as the health system. So you are reproducing the crisis and dismantling and the institution of the political system. Nor will the health system collapse, nor will this government collapse, nor will there be any health bomb or any of it, because there is a plan, because we know how to address, on the basis of international guidelines, the great needs that have arisen, because we have a vision of public care, because we have fought and devoted to public care by our young people. That's why people in public care understand that we have another quality, that we don't play career policies at the Ministry of Health, that we serve a social asset and we do it consistently, with devotion and above all with honesty. Ladies and gentlemen, because you spoke of correlation changes, what we are doing is a change of relation between public and private health. This is what we are trying to do at this time, because that is precisely because we have the bias that I said before in favour of public care. For primary health care it is a great debate. Decide: Or it's a good plan and we'd take a lot of people while you'd like to take it faster, cover the entire population or it's a third-world project and turn us back to Cuba in 1960. Decide what your criticism is. I think it is, of course, a project based on international literature, and it has the technical support of the World Health Organisation, which is why we are making a contract with the WHO, and that is why we are giving him some of the European resources that our country is entitled to. Of course, we think it should be our WHO technical consultant and not other strange consultancy companies.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u708	Who's WHO?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u709	The World Health Organization. We were also criticised for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u710	That's all we told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u711	I know exactly what you said. You also said about PSURs and, in general, about pharmacological costs. This is a very difficult debate. I'm telling you right away that we need to do two things: Firstly, we need to find a much more effective demand control system and ensure rational prescribing. There are very important efforts being made in this direction, but it has not yet produced the expected result. Secondly, we need to negotiate lower rates of compensation. If this is not done, there is no answer. This is a debate that concerns all the countries of the world, even the most advanced ones. The approach is, on the one hand, to ensure people's access to innovative, expensive, effective medicines that give better quality of life and, on the other, to the sustainability of economic health and social security systems. This is the debate, and for the first time we have taken two steps in this direction, which you have never thought of. We have launched a serious national negotiation by the EEAS Negotiations Committee, which has negotiated with five companies lower prices for hepatitis C medicines. Secondly, as I told you in my first speech, we have taken initiatives to negotiate with other European countries, in order to achieve a better result. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing again and again.]] Mr President, I got the message and I'm finishing it. There are problems, they have red codes in hospitals, we will go to budget reform these days and we will be dealt with. I said it before: With nails and teeth we will ensure that people take the necessary medications. The necessary drugs, though. And this should help with maturity and responsibility and with high social ethos and the medical community in the country. In the health system, you say nothing happened. We talked about it myself and Paul. I just say: we have only guaranteed access for uninsured people, without morals, without bureaucratic obstacles, without the stress of payment, without the obligation to accept debts, and only by ensuring this, tens of thousands of people are relieved of their daily lives by this intervention. And I end by saying this: we can do this. Given the circumstances, that's what we can do. Let me get this straight. What would you do? Would you do more? Your term of office cancels this argument. We are, therefore, really fighting with time, with the strengths of the people of the health system and the strengths of society. We're having a hard time, we're getting tough, we're fighting, but we're gonna take it and we're gonna make it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u712	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u713	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u714	If he asks for the floor, I also ask for the floor. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u715	Mr. Loverdos, I assume you will give an answer to the political criticism that has been made. Then the Minister will want to answer again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u716	Parliament is here!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u717	Yes, but the meeting is completely overdue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u718	Look, Mr President, the debate is closed, the government's political leadership is not closing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u719	Deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u720	If Mr. Loverdos speaks, one of us will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u721	This is not so much a question as the process has been completely blown out. Something has to be done after all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u722	I ask, however, and then, if the Minister wants, that he close the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u723	But are you serious, Mr. Loverdo? Do I, too, have my right to interrupt the meeting, ask for replacement and wait together?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u724	I'm asking for the floor. You will tell me 'no'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u725	But I do not want to say 'no' to you, understand. Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u726	Mr President, Minister Xanthos spoke about targeting and looking towards us, looking here. It makes a very big mistake on a very sensitive subject, addressing people who have been targeted themselves for too many years. We have shown political ethos both today and with our criticisms and with our support, but it cannot address us with this reproach, when he knows well - because he has been here since the beginning and he has heard seven speakers from the party, the President of the party and the parliamentary representative speaking twice - that he has not heard a word about what is being discussed. Speak with your little names, but everyone writes about the criteria not pleasant things, but we didn't say a word. We didn't say a word. And you referred to us. You spoke about us, when there are reports from the Ministry of Health about your health on the basis of no pleasant subject. So you must be more polite, Minister, and criticise where the reason is for you, perhaps incorrect or unfair.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u727	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u728	And secondly, I'm sorry, you say, Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u729	Mr President, I want the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u730	No, Minister, if you'll excuse me very much, you won't take the floor. Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u731	I'm sorry, wait a minute, this isn't the end of the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u732	But you realize it can't go on. You'll say something, you'll answer, you'll say it again. Hey, that's not how it works!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u733	I shall conclude with a phrase.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u734	That's not how it closes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u735	So, how does the procedure close, Minister? Tell me. Do you have to hang up?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u736	Obviously. The Minister has tritology, that's how it's done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u737	But the ministers answered. Now, in a given comment by my fellow Member, do you have such a great need to respond?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u738	Clearly, because what he says does not apply.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u739	What can I tell you? Answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u740	Can I finish?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u741	I want to say a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u742	I'm not done!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u743	I thought you were done. Are you still done?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u744	I have one more phrase. First of all, all my arguments and arguments of the whole Parliament are addressed to the Minister for Health. I have no possibility of talking with other people of the Ministry. I'm addressing the Minister of Health. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that we would very much like a day to tell us more thoroughly what this new mechanism is, how they think it - he was vague - in relation to pharmaceutical expenditure, because we all know that what I opened, the electronic auctions with the huge benefit, has stopped them. Secondly, all this drug reduction in the costs that have been incurred has been done without increasing...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u745	Mr. Loverdo, are we serious? Do you now request explanations for the mechanism? Ask another question to discuss again. Is that possible right now? Thank you very much. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u746	I do not answer the honourable Member who spoke before. I answer in general. It's the targeting from the reversal. I do not reply to my fellow Member in general. The definitions of 'health beneficiaries', 'black funds' and 'three measures' were made by the first speaker from the parliamentary group. If this is not a reproduction of media targeting, then we live in parallel and fantastic universes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u747	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u748	Wait a minute. Secondly, the electronic auctions organised led to two specific companies, ‘TEVA’ and ‘Mayland’ to win a number of invitations to tender with certain prices and not to bring the medicines to the hospitals. To make an order and then no one else. What's the result? The hospitals, because at the price of the Observatory raised by the two companies could not obtain medicines from the contest - someone opened the electronic auctions, we don't know him - to make small orders and to eject the price and the pharmacy expenditure upwards. These are for the history of electronic auctions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u749	The debate under number 22-16-10-3-2016 on the collapse of the National Health System is being held. Ladies and gentlemen, you have been distributed the minutes of Friday 1 July, Monday 4 July, Wednesday 6 July, Thursday 7 July, Thursday 14 July, Monday 18 July and Tuesday 19 July, and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u750	Therefore the Minutes of Friday 1 July, Monday 4 July, Wednesday 6 July, Thursday 7 July, Thursday 14 July, Monday 18 July and Tuesday 19 July were ratified. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-29-S1-commons.u751	With the consent of the House at 18.06 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, September 30, 2016 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: (a) a debate on topical questions; and (b) a debate on Question No 34/28/1-8-2016 on the agenda.
