ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning, we shall begin the sitting. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Thursday 16 June 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 983/13-6-2016 by MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Chryssolou Katsavria - Siropoulou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on studying at the educational levels of the Roma students. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 975/10-6-2016 topical question of the debts of the OSCE by MP II of New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Hatzidakis to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks. 3. The question by No 970/8-6-2016 of the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kasidiaris to the Minister for Rural Development and Food regarding the products of Protected Designation of Origin (feta, Kalamata Olives). 4. The question by No 969/8-6-2016 by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the appointment of a Secretary-General. 5. The question by No 981/13-6-2016 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Christos Katsotis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on safeguarding the working and insurance rights of employees of Athens Ledra Hotel. 6. The question by No 980/13-6-2016 of the Athens MP, Mr. Spyridonos Lykoudis, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning vandalism in statues in the center of Athens. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Athanasios Papachristopoulos (Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity) asked Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos the Greek Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity about the simulation of the three families with the multiples. 8. Mr Georgios Katsiantonis, Member of the Association of Central Banks, Mr Georgios Katsiantonis, Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the global reduction of ELTA (Greek Post) revenues from the suspension of the extended postal time. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 984/13-6-2016 of the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Dimitrios Sevastakis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the non-inclusion of Samos in the pilot phase of the implementation of Social Solidarity Income. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 976/10-6-2016 topical question by MP Florina of New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Antoniadis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the return of the Department of Balkan Studies from Thessaloniki to Florina. 3. The 979/10-6-2016 topical question by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the US-EU Trade Agreement (TTIP) and the protection of Greek feta. 4. The question asked by MP Serres of the Democratic Integration PASOK - DIMAR Mr Michael Jeleigh to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity about the impact on farmers of pensioners from the new insurance law 4387/2016. 5. The Question No 982/13-6-2016 by Z' Vice President of the Parliament and Member of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and National Defence on the conditions for hosting refugees in Koutsochochero Larissa. 6. The Question No 926/30-5-2016 by Congressman Arta of the New Republic, George Style, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning the payment of the minimum possible coupled aid to the citrus producers. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question by No 942-3-6-2016 of the Greek MP, Mr. Savvas Anastasiades, to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, about the strikes in the port of Thessaloniki. 8. The question by number 945/3-6-2016 is a topical question by MP B' Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the ongoing Albanian challenges. 9. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about the resolution of the operating issues of Heraklion Airport "Nikos KAZADZAKIS". 10. Mr Andreas Katsaniotis, Member of the Commission. — (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his answer. 11. The question under number 946/3-2016 by MP II Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Lagos to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about Turkey's financing through the Consulate of Komotini, for the purchase of property of deported Greeks in Thrace. 12. The 952-6-2016 topical question by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister of Health, about the operation of the CT scanner at the hospital of Artas. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The Question No 813/21-04-2016 by MP, Mr Spyridonos, Mr Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister of Health, concerning the Ministry's apparent intervention in the selection contests of 100 doctors and 400 nurses. 14. Observed. The question by No 914/27-5-2016 of the Member of Parliament of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the creation of illegal kindergartens and boardrooms in Xanthi. 15. The timely question by MP Magnesia of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Constantine Steerios to the Minister of Health about the need to prevent, treat and support the Volos cancer patients. 16. Observations of the Committee of the Regions Eleni Zaroulia to the Minister of Health, Question No 545/15-2-2016 by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn to the Minister of Health, on the problems of operation in the EKAB. 17. The question asked by MP Aitolokarnania of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about the reduction of the cost of crossing the bridge of Charilaos Trikoupis. 18. The question by number 929/30-5-2016 of the F' Vice President of the Parliament and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Finance, concerning the country's bankruptcy and the fiscal diversion. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by Mr Athanasios Michelis, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, about the legacy of Ioanna Krikki at the Orphanage of Larissa. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Laconia of New Democracy Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of Culture and Sport about the restoration works of the archaeological site of Mystras. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism: 'Institutional framework for the establishment of private investment aid schemes for the regional and economic development of the country - Establishment of Development Council and other provisions'. As we said last night, Mrs Gara is today's first speaker. Please, Mrs. Gara, you have the floor for seven minutes. Instead of last, you're first.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u2	Good morning, Mr. President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for the second day in plenary we are called on to discuss the arrangements for development law in a broader development plan for the country, which will lay the foundations for fair and productive reconstruction and development. The truth is that a law is enacted in an environment affected by the crisis of so many years and also bad political choices of previous years that have led the country to disinvestment. It is, of course, a legislative framework that has received positive judgments from producer bodies and the market awaits it. However, to our surprise, he has also caused discourse or lack of arguments and suggestions to opposition parties. For words, words, words, words, words. And the main criticism comes with the argument 'you do not support the private initiative'. Yes, sir. You will allow me to take you back a little bit, to the results of the last three investment laws, which have been set up with the intention of supporting the private initiative, in theory. A characteristic of these laws was the lack of targeting and planning, in line with the country's productive needs and capabilities and, above all, the concentration of State aid on increasingly fewer hands. Thus, in the last three laws, six business groups were identified for a hundred thirty-three projects, a total grant of one billion. Large businesses, which accounted for 4.2% of all investment projects, absorbed 43.6% of the total budget. Six groups, one billion! Oops! Is this the support of the country's economy, or is it the support of the private initiative, ladies and gentlemen? You say clearly, of course, that your interest in the very large groups is being exhausted and you do not have to mention small and medium-sized enterprises. For our part, we have designed a development law that responds to the country's real needs and potential. Investment projects with different incentives for each category are supported in order to promote the stimulation of a different production model, facilitating investors with incentives that they really need. Our priority, of course, is to invest in our country's human resources, characterised by high-level education and specialisation. We need to make use of our people within the country, overthrowing the exit from abroad, which you, ladies and gentlemen, have created. We are investing in innovation, processing, extroversion of businesses and synergies in a context of a modern European state. We are introducing the area of the social economy - unknown to you - and to the large investment projects, an area that has shown serious achievements in Europe and is starting dynamically in our country as well. The proposed law is characterised by several innovations, which were also mentioned by other colleagues yesterday in detail, but mainly promotes the strengthening of small and medium-sized enterprises by putting large-capital security differences into a few hands. I understand, of course, that that thought and that logic are quite annoying. However, once again, we prove in practice that we are promoting fair growth and economic and employment growth by involving the large part of society and not a few and chosen, I recall it was six. A characteristic second of the previous development laws - which, of course, did not bring about - was complexity, corruption, privatization. Interesting chapter! Three words, one logical and basic cause of the crisis in our country, at least in my own assessment. Anyone who has dared to join an investment law knows very well that he has to put up with files if he wants to approve his plan and those who resisted saw delays or rejections. A common secret in the business world is money. The essential evaluation was almost never done, but only the inside of the file that they gave under the table. I imagine a lot of people know what I'm saying very well. A sachet for the evaluator in the first stage, a sachet in the second stage, a sachet for the evaluation of mechanical equipment, a sachet for the evaluation of invoices, a sachet at each stage of the investment project. Whether it is or is not a viable proposal, that was of no interest to anyone. Political and service factors have been enriched through development laws. You see, they were particularly "developing" for their own pocket, at the same time as investors and entrepreneurs dragged in for debts in the courts. Central planning, no one. Regional planning, obviously, none. Investment planning, no one. Dirty, complex, obstacles and, above all, money laundering. Public money was spent and made travels, mercenaries, apartments. Many investors were victims without being able to complete their investment, since a large part of the capital was going to the mist. Beautiful stories of the Greek model of development, which, according to the so-called Antipopulation, supports the private initiative. And then we wonder how we got to judgment! Think of these funds invested in real businesses that would work! And imagine that some of us are swinging our fingers! That is why we, today, are changing the way we assess, with a reduction in bureaucracy, a transparent modern electronic method, where the investor's name will not be interested either in the bag, but the content of the investment and of course, without leaving room for all such plaques. What do we have left of past development laws? If you ask Thrace, with a word you will be answered 'guts'. Come on, ladies and gentlemen, let me take a walk to Thrace to see for yourself how well you have done it with the investment laws you support. Iron constructions huge, licensed, which are slowly rustling, unfortunately, in an area that has all but the potential to be an investment area for export, innovation and agri-food operations. Evros, Thrace, our islands, and other border regions, thankfully enjoy special attention and appreciation in this law. We have repeated many times that 30 km away from the border, are characterised as border areas and along with island and mountain areas, they have enhanced incentives. Some of these are grants to 100% of the permitted limit, which means about 45% of the investment project, crude oil subsidies, wage subsidies, tax relief and others that have been mentioned before. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. A law by itself, obviously, and it is not enough, so at the same time we are planning to complete and build the necessary state infrastructure and to activate other financial instruments. Honestly, for this design, for the particular treatment with increased incentives that respond to the real needs of the border, I can at least be optimistic about making a good start because, despite difficulties and obstacles, I have seen in my place businesses and people advance, strengthen, invest in our people, promote exports and create a number of jobs. They need support and appropriate incentives to stay, continue and grow. For them, but also for many young people of my generation, with incredible knowledge and ideas, it is worth fighting, seriously planning and giving these incentives for their first steps. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, what exactly do you disagree and vote against? What are you going to go out to say on the market or on the 'bug', as you claim you are on the market? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, too. But at this point we would like to remind you that there are hundreds of two registered speakers. There are still four parliamentary representatives, two ministers and the Deputy Prime Minister. I would ask you to consider until the end of Mr Kamatteros, who will take the floor and decide whether you agree to reduce the time to five minutes in order for everyone to speak. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u4	The House therefore agreed with the above proposal. Here, Mr. Kamaterre, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that this development law has, first of all, political and social objectives, beyond economic objectives. Clearly she's in position. So, who do we want growth for? He's clearly giving answers. I mean, he answers to whom, how, how, how, and in what directions. But let me say, Minister, that it does not respond to the 'where', that is, spatially and spatially. With what spatial planning plan will we proceed with the implementation of this development law? National spatial planning is either not available or perforated. Are we going to local development? Are there everywhere? Is there a plan for how we want each island to develop? Is there a plan for how plutonium production resources will be opened? Is there a plan on how to use the comparative advantages of each island, such as religious tourism in Patmos or climbing in Kalymnos? How will tourists develop large islands that play the role of the centre for the development and survival of the adjacent small islands? It is well known so far that the former have maintained a perforated framework on this issue. Neither forest maps have made sure they complete the Land register. They did not see to it that the NATURA areas are protected either. Still, there's no protection status. Of course they did not even care about spatial planning, which I told you before. They did all this on purpose, because they served customer relations and involvement, especially for integration into developmental laws. She said that she was very characteristic and raw, Mrs Gara, before, about the bags and all that. I sign up and I don't need to say it again. But I would like to point out that we are in danger without these tools. To make what I said earlier - from spatial planning to forest maps, and so on - time is needed. We know it doesn't happen from one day to the next. But the development law will run right away. What do we do until then? What measures do we take, what safeguards, so that we do not repeat what has happened in the past. I will only refer to the tourism investment sector, due to the time, especially those connected with the agri-foodstuffs sector, which the law does well and connects to it. Spatial planning in tourism, the latter, has been abolished by the Council of State. And he did well, because he did nothing else. It is pending and may also be abolished the previous one. What does the bill we're talking about? In Article 7, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 4. provides that, by decision of the Ministers for Finance, Tourism and others, areas in which such investments are not authorised may be defined. He means tourists. But this is what I think is dangerous. There must be greater safeguard, because there are areas that do not lift up a single bed. In fact, it was said that we should not talk about saturation, we should talk about carrying capacity. And I ask: when an area has exceeded its carrying capacity, what are we going to call it? Isn't she saturated? And it's funny that by law they've abolished the concept of saturation since 2006 if I'm not mistaken. Look, first of all, tourism is not just beds. Because that's what the previous ones saw, tourist development equals making beds. He was helping us, and we know why. We've been through this before. But we must also understand that it is not just tourism arrivals, nor, if you want, and income increase, because we as a left-wing government must be concerned and see who benefits from it here, increasing numbers, either arrivals or revenues. We have an obligation, and that's why the people have sent us here to change the model. Not one-sided development in areas, especially in the islands that are finite in mass tourism. This model here enables tour operators to control everything and to gain more and more, at the expense of the suffering local societies. And we pay the infrastructure to win and fruit the workers' sweat, but also to exploit the wealth of our islands. Natural resources run out. All inclusive that destroys local economies is supported because of this model of tourism. That is why strengthening the increase in beds is - look, Minister - for some of us cause of war with some ministries. Each new bed in the areas that create these problems creates further difficulties in local communities. They work with all inclusive increasingly, they earn more and more. Workers work, if they find a job, with 500 euros at the hotels. You know them very well. I won't say any more details now, due to the time. For example, they even take the bags out with food. They go daily trip to the neighbouring islands and get in the bag from all inclusive food. And we've reached the point with 15 euros all inclusive in five-star hotel. Is that what we're gonna do? Is that what we're going to do? No, that's a cause of war. We have to avoid it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] On the other hand, small and medium-sized enterprises and their modernisation must be strengthened. At the same time, incentives must be given to the primary sector. And how's that gonna happen? How will consciousness be formed for partnerships, joint ventures and cooperatives? Fortunately, the law provides for the creation of structures that will strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises in this direction. But only one development law is not enough. The Minister said so, too. Our rapporteur has said so too. How will SMEs in the primary sector be strengthened, especially in the islands? How will their production be linked to tourism if they are not competitive? How will farmers and farmers of the islands treat imported meat, potatoes, lemons, honey, oil, which they too produce and do not give to hotels, but do they bring from Hong Kong these products or other regions, if they do not have a tax relief if they do not have a VAT relief, if they do not have any VAT relief, if they do not have any food, tools, facilities and elsewhere? That is why we need to draw up a relief and incentive plan for these activities. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Development, therefore, does not just come with development law. It wants a comprehensive political shift and appropriate tools. And that will not be the case, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for opposition. They'll rejoice if we just compare to them, even if we do - and we certainly do - better management. That's not good enough for me. We want a turn and a change to the development of the people, and only we can do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u6	All right, Mr. Kamaterre. Complete fully peaceful and without casus belli.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u7	That is why only our policy is useful, constructive and necessary. Listen to us! Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u8	Be well, Mr. Comrade! Mr Spartinus has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, every development policy must be based on two pillars which were missing from previous governments' policies, which is reflected in the results of previous development laws. However, the current government is also called upon to deal with this. The first pillar is the existence of a comprehensive and coherent plan with objectives, priorities and peaks, and the second is respect for the resources saved and available. One wonders what of the above conditions has been met in the preparation and implementation of the previous development laws, which have left a dowry of 6.4 billion or six thousand investment projects, while almost 45% of the aid has been used up by only 4% of the investment projects, which are depleted to a hundred and twenty-all companies. In this way, previous development laws may have served consistently the customer state, but they have exacerbated inequality in the country, which has been the main cause of the severe impact of the crisis on the Greek economy and society. Investment projects for which the necessary resources had not been provided had thus been carried out. In fact, the absence of planning and sound management of resources was so profound that old and completed projects have not received a single euro with various justifications, and recently and incompletely they have received all the aid as an advance. In common, 'Let our investors and the burdens of others be straightened down to the next government'. It is a logic that is entirely in line with the spirit of the recent statements made by the former Prime Minister, Mr Samaras, that he "knowledge that he will lose the election, but signed to commit the SYRIZA". It is also surprising that the position yesterday of the new Republic's colleague yesterday that the current development law wants to avenge the old investors of previous development laws. On the basis of this data I have told you, if today's development law wants to be avenged, I wonder what previous development laws wanted to do to them. I would suggest that Mrs Medina Ortega herself find the appropriate description. But even though we have overlooked these remarks, it is worth seeing the result of the previous development in the real economy, a real economy which for us is not meant without the creation and sustainable maintenance of jobs. The previous developmentists have had a zero if not an unexplained effect in this area, because they simply did not anticipate it. On the other hand, employment is strongly subsidised by this development law, and without any restrictions on the percentage of the investment project it is occupying. The aim of the new development law is to create fifteen to sixteen thousand new jobs, and to create so many other jobs as from the completion of the previous ones. Of course, every job created, it multiplys its impact on the labour market and creates much more new jobs. It is a strategic objective of this development law to stimulate the labour market, where it is aimed at focusing regional and sectoral support with cutting edges on information and communication technologies and the agri-food sector, regional in declining populations, border areas, mountain and island regions and the sector in areas where the maximum use of two comparative advantages in the country can be made: human capital, particularly that with a high level of knowledge and proven international performance, and climate conditions that favour the agri-food sector and, of course, tourism, two sectors that can be developed in direct connection with each other. Furthermore, the law specifically wants to support - and the Minister has said - exports, research and development in the production phase of the results, the social economy in its various forms, the re-industrialisation effort and the service sector in internationally marketable services. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. This would like to achieve the best possible dispersion rather than the concentration of aid, thus setting the limit of 5 million. In addition, the minimum levels of investment projects are determined in such a way that they are directed mainly at small and medium-sized enterprises, even after the relevant amendments made by the Ministry. Small and medium-sized enterprises must be the core of the country's collective productive reconstruction. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that the influence of the 'negligent' development model in the years of the 'bad cows' has largely led to the abandonment of productive activities with comparative advantages for the country, thus intensifying the effects of the crisis when it injected, and demonstrating the vulnerability of that economic development model, a development model that had a specific profile of internal lending and consumption, which strengthened the trend of overcompensation of the Greek economy. We can't, we don't want and we won't go on like this. The end of the old political system, along with the end of the irrational, deliberate, inefficient and dead-end development model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u10	Please, Mrs. Alonitou has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft 'Institutional framework for the establishment of private investment aid schemes for the regional and economic development of the country - Recommendation of the Development Council and other provisions' we are debating today is mainly distinguished by a conscious effort to learn from the mistakes of the past and not to repeat them constantly. In this sense, it is an undertaking without a heavy ideological burden, but it undertakes heavy practical tasks and obligations. The aid to private investment has a long history in Greece, but it has not always been brilliant. In the past, there have been cases of aid being absorbed by the alleged investors, but it has not resulted in the operation of a company. There have still been companies which have actually been created and operated public-aided, but which have not subsequently been able to stand on the market when the subsidies expired. Today we are seeking to strengthen private investment in such a way that these phenomena are not repeated. This is aimed at the bill by establishing targeted actions aimed at creating new jobs, exploiting the country's human potential, improving the technological level and competitiveness of enterprises, high added value, attracting investment and regional development. In other words, we want growth in high-efficiency areas, as it suits the high quality of our country's human resources, we do not bruise ourselves with hysterical fairy tales for the development of low-cost Bangladesh. In order to achieve these objectives, the bill places the emphasis on strengthening companies with tax exemptions, subsidising financial leasing and subsidising wage costs, giving these actions greater weight than grants. It is important that companies function, produce value, have jobs in operation. No question is solved if some enterprises are subsidised, set up and closed. This distribution of support with emphasis on operation is aimed at efficiency, which is often lacking in our country. It is also intended that subsidies should not be unilaterally sold by only a few large companies. There are profitable groups in our country that make investments and have long-term investment plans. Good for them! But there is no compelling social reason why these investments should be subsidised by the taxpayer. Aid is meaningful when it is intended to help a private firm in marginal phases in its existence, when it is established or when it makes investment exposures. In such phases state subsidies can judge the viability of the project and are important. However, the aim is always to create a genuinely profitable business that can rely on the market. When it succeeds, it makes no sense to absorb the lion's portion from the limited state resources. It is, however, planned to support large-scale investments in the form of tax exemptions and speeding up procedures, i.e. with an emphasis on operation. Participation funds are still of particular importance in order to leverage State and Community funds to boost investment. Here ensures what is often lacking from State aid for private investment: market participation in the selection of projects to be supported. This participation, however, is not granted by the State. It shall be guaranteed by participation in financing. So with one move, we ensure increased funding, market discipline and greater transparency of the project. I consider this to be an innovative approach that will yield a great deal. The bill also pays attention to regional development. It is, of course, an international fact that industry is gathering around transport routes: ports, airports, roads and railways. It's not spreading everywhere. In Greece, with mountain volumes and islands, the areas offered for industrial development are even less. How do we do this, though? This characteristic of our country favours tourism on the other hand. It has been said by people who live in the northerly climates that tourism is the best economic activity, as others pay you to see you. Okay. It is not that simple, but the integrated spatial and sectoral plans provided for in the bill exist to take advantage of the comparative advantages of each region and to strengthen similar business activities. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill should normally not be a sign of doubt in this House because it seeks an objective that we all state that we want: economic development. I think that after six years of crisis, we have reached the point where the prospect of economic development is now ahead of us. Let's maximize it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, too. Mr Karayannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known to everyone that the new development law has been formed in crisis management conditions. Of course, he cannot alone change the country’s course. It, however, gives a clear signal of the direction in which we want to move, is a development vision tool and is fully in line with the country's reconstruction strategy plan. This draft law seeks to create innovative outward-looking enterprises, focuses on increasing domestic added value, promotes cooperation and synergies through clusters and enterprises in the social economy, prioritises the agri-food sector and information technology and supports border and disadvantaged areas. Production, innovation, extroversion, support for small and medium-sized enterprises and fair growth are the keywords of the new development law. Other positive ones focus, firstly, on the parallel use of grants, tax incentives and new financial leverage instruments. Secondly, the simplification of evaluation and control procedures. Thirdly, the non-enhancement of existing trends with a view to restructuring the Greek economy for exiting the crisis. Fourthly, in the long term, a favourable tax environment for large investment. Fifthly, the combined operation with the other aid programmes, such as the NSRF, the Rural Development Programme and others. Especially for the agricultural sector, the development law strengthens investment projects that have to do with the creation of a new plant, the expansion of existing products, the production of new products, the overall change in the production process and the acquisition of all assets by closed enterprises. All the above are the substantial differences with the previous developmentists, which have had little effect on the structure of the Greek economy, characterised by a lack of clear targeting and vision and reduced their role in a liquidity facility by strengthening established low-tech sectors. In 2012, we even reached the unfortunate point of talking about the creation of special economic zones in border regions as a development perspective, knowing that there is no relevant legislative framework in the European Union. Can anyone really consider the application of this tertiary world model to Thrace and Epirus, as did the studies in question? Ladies and gentlemen, as I said at the beginning of my speech, no developmentist and no regional development model, however comprehensive it may be, cannot in itself change the country's course. The new development, in order to be able to work acceleratingly in the economy, should be supported by a wide range of structural changes, reforms and interventions. For example: First, the processing of primary production cannot be independent of the national strategy for our national products, the promotion of the comparative advantages of the Greek region and the major changes imposed on agriculture and livestock in our country. Secondly, the agri-food sector cannot focus on satisfying the levels of self-sufficiency and improvement of the balance, especially in dairy and meat products, while linking with the tourist product and Greek gastronomy. Thirdly, the social economy area cannot be sustainable and competitive without modern cooperatives, strong clausters and a great increase in the country's social capital. Fourthly, innovation cannot be supported unless red tape, collaborative logic and inadequacies of public administration are eliminated. Fifthly, small and medium-sized enterprises will not be able to survive without cooperation and synergies, favourable arrangements, restructuring plans - and less, when conditions allow, tax burdens. Finally, there cannot be an extroversion of both exports and attracting investment without dynamic economic diplomacy, modern structures, targeted market actions and decommissioned commercial followers for years without motivation, without their own secretariat and without their own budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, too, for respecting time. Mr. Kelles has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago the Greek people attended the theatre of irrationality with all these measures, the bill, the tax storm you voted on. Today he is following you in a normal theatrical performance, my dear fellow Member, to try to legislate things that you do not believe, such as private investment, such as growth. Things that are outside your ideas and obviously, and to vote, you are not going to apply them. Really, what can you say about private investment, when for decades you have fought rabies every investment effort? What can you say about growth, since in January 2015 you received a positive development country and restored it to the recession? Development, friends and friends, needs a private initiative, needs a lesser state, a stable tax environment to create. All this causes you allergy. Even when you were forced to sign some major development projects days ago, such as PPA and Greek, you cried at one Minister, the other Minister hurts, the third and you suffers in general. So you laugh or at least think you're mocking the Greek people, bringing a law with more than a year's delay, with unfavorable consequences for the Greek economy, which might stand in a different economic environment, but not in today's. According to the Statistical Service, we are in the third consecutive quarter of recession. We are the only country in Europe that recorded a recession in the first quarter of 2016. We have exterminating tax rates, we have a 13% reduction in investment, we have a 3.8% reduction in exports, 40 billion have left the banks and the maturities, Minister, 7 billion euros have reached a gloomy amount. Greece needs at least EUR 100 billion to recover, and you have been bringing in a EUR 500 million development law for five years. In a country with capital controls, how will the advances be paid? Because the law, which you are introducing today, provides for the advance when the project reaches 50% of its implementation, obviously to get it by no one or few. Our rapporteur has rightly pointed out that this development law, at best, is a drop in the ocean, and in the worst case an empty shirt. We have repeatedly stressed that with this tax and insurance scheme, which you voted on in the past few days, neither Greek nor foreign, will dare to invest in Greece. With tax rates increased from 26% to 29%, with VAT increased from 13% to 23% and then 24%, with an advance tax at 100%, with an increased solidarity levy, with an increase of up to 2031, which small and medium-sized one, supposedly cut, will invest? You brought growth, but not Greece. You have brought growth to Bulgaria, perhaps, in Cyprus, not to mention the other malfunctions of the law, Minister, such as the lack of a timetable for the complete repayment of the investment, which means: Who will invest if he does not know when he will be repaid? The vengeance to investors that have already joined the previous investment laws when you pay them back in seven years. You said you'd bring legal improvements to them to pay off in five years. The lack of provision of procedures to allow entrepreneurial companies to close the projects that are running and to avoid offending and economic catastrophe. The unbelievable bureaucracy with the thirty NSAs to be signed, the preparation of a road support manual and so forth. Colleagues, it is certain that this law will self-determination. Just nowadays, an ALCO company's group is published in the daily press, which is at the request of the GSE, which says that 63% of SYRIZA fans and 61% of ANEL voters do not believe that the current government can get the country out of the crisis. But since you are voting for all of them, I would like to refer a little to development law in relation to medical and health tourism. In Article 7(2)(b and with activity code number 86, you refer to investment plans for health and medical tourism. By joint decision of the Ministers for Economy, Development and Tourism and, where appropriate, co-operating ministers, the terms and conditions of the subordinated investment projects and any other necessary detail will be laid down. In view of the above, can you tell us about the activities that these investment projects should cover? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. When do you estimate that the FMC will be signed under the terms and conditions? Is a change in a general direction so that the procedure does not need to be facilitated? I believe that it should be eligible for any investment project aimed at attracting patients from third countries to carry out medical operations in Greece, provided that the investor is registered for health service providers. It should also have the right to grant and upgrade medical devices, as well as to improve targeted procedures, such as communication in the patient’s language, patient safety, information, certification, so that it can be competitive in the international environment. Finally, on the part of medical tourism, Minister, Article 31 of Law 4238/2014 provides for the adoption of a Joint Ministerial Decision of the Ministers for Health and Tourism, which defines the terms and conditions under which medical treatment units, health tourism centres, heating centres and sea therapy centres may be recognised as primary health care services units. The issue of this FYROM would give a new scope for development in the health tourism sector, which I think is entitled to be included in the development law. I conclude by saying that I cannot vote in favour of this law because it is poor, incomplete and problematic and is unfortunately not going to bring growth to our economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Kelles, you said you were done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u17	In seconds, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u18	Is that a classic political promise?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u19	I have heard the Minister and am surprised at the objectives he has set me: the stabilisation of the banking system, investment and growth. These are the goals of December 2014 that the former Government of New Democracy had achieved, Minister. So we went back two years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u20	Now it's true that you're finished.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u21	After all, in the way you handled the great investment in Greek, you showed all investors, domestic and foreign, how you perceive investment and growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u23	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u24	I would like to make it clear to friends of Anti-Population to use two more reliable financial indicators. Index number one. The debts to the State increased, the outstanding debts of 85.87 billion and so on. The tax revenues show a satisfactory course both in 2015 and in the first quarter of 2016. Is this compatible with an increase in outstanding debts? Let's make it clear once and for all. The 90 billion debts, which are accumulated public debts, include all firms in difficulty in the 1980s, all debts of all kinds and kinds accumulated over the centuries.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u25	That's 20.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u26	And there's always been these.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u27	Allow me, please. The actual data on late debts, due due dues are a peculiarity, and we need to know and have it clearly in our minds. These are debts, which for various reasons the public has never deleted, since they are not due and will never recover them. The companies have closed down, the natural persons have died and so on. Real dues are only valued at 15 billion. What does that mean? When you have arrears of 80 billion, of which only 15 are due, and all the others are the dead debts, the ones that are not to be paid, the Greek State automatically increases, on the basis of the interest rate, the outstanding debts of 65 billion of non-demands. What does that mean? When using the indicator that dues have increased, in fact the actual debts may have been reduced, they may have remained the same or may have been marginally increased. You should be able to distinguish the actual indicator to use it. Secondly, the New Democracy uses the wrong indicator, and it speaks of a fall in exports. Exports are calculated by two indicators, including mineral oils and without oil. I advise you to use the export index without the oil, because the bending that occurs is virtual. In fact, we have an increase in exports, and the reason that is virtual is that you put oil on, which, due to lower prices, disturbs the real picture of actual exports. To be criticized, but in real facts and not in fiction.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, I would like to speak for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Teddy, are we going to dibble now? We said, "God is squeezing the many debts."
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u30	I would like half a minute's reason for the clarifications, which the Minister has been kind enough to do with your permission. Here, of course, because when we talk about numbers, there is no reason either to raise tons or anything else. First of all, I believe that the minimum obligation of a Minister of Finance, when he opens up the question of unpaid public debts, is to come down to present figures and say 'for these reasons, they will never be collected' and take such legislative steps, having a legislative initiative to tell us. Coming here and hosting the public with a free translation of tens of millions or billions is no use. Because the figure that the Minister has said is opposed to what I was told, when I was Minister of Development, or in any case doubled at a minimum. The second thing I would like to say is that, if I am not deceived, Minister, and without oil, exports show a fall. And without the oil and the oil. The fall rate is different. But bend and so, bend and otherwise.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u31	Excuse me, I have a disagreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u32	So if you correct us to tell us that both indicators are down and prefer one by one, the observation is accepted, we are grateful, but we are downward.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u33	Thank you. Mr. Barkas from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u34	Mr President, thank you very much. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is a presumption that we are in front of a theater of irrationality. The government brings the House, after hard work, after long consultation with the institutions, a development law which the government itself considers will not solve the problem. But in cooperation with the other weapons used by the government in order to be able to get the country out of the crisis and bring this much-needed development that we are all talking about, there is this law as well, a powerful tool in the hands of the government, so that it can solve the Gordian link between businesses, companies that close six years in the crisis, companies that have not found any support for so many years that our country has been experiencing the crisis. It is assumed that the absence of substantial and reasonable development laws in previous years and the distortions that previous laws had led not only to maintaining unemployment but to increasing it. Why? Because we had development laws, which were not actually in place and which actually wanted to help - and they did - a few of them, who were able to have access to the ministries or access to development laws. So what is this development law doing? This development law brings new logic to the opposite side of the perception and logic of former governments and parties exercising power. A new concept, which has essentially basic features, which say that we must defend the medium and medium-sized enterprises in our country, must also have the possibility of joining the development workers, that investment must be completed, so that jobs can be created, that we must help cooperative schemes, Clusters, that is, new forms of cooperative and not these old ones which, as we all know, have fallen into the eyes of Greek society. And of course, new accusations are being put in the new development law, where people can deal with it, and that is the agri-foodstuff. We are all talking about the country's productive reconstruction, but without doing anything. So this government, this ministry, brings up a development law, which puts farm food at the heart of logic. Of course, in this whole process, we also had to defend those businesses that were squeezing from previous development laws. So in this case we had to do something about it, we had to deal with it too. So the main thing we did was to deal with, see which companies were the ones that had started and completed a type of investment. That's why you're accusing us of being late. In this process, however, we put a start on it, we put an end to it, and now we are defending a new development law, which has specific characteristics. And in order not to take the time of the next speakers, I would like to mention - and this is our role in this House, and that is why we are elected - to the particular features, as the map of regions which fall within the special categories has been established. Epirus is known what area it is. It's an area isolated. This isolation breaks with the road vertical axes that are created. We are pleased to announce that the Ionia Street will be completed to help us have a relationship with the urban centers, with Athens, with the capital of our country. The road of Corinth - Patras is completed. This project that has been launched for a decade is starting and entering a series. So I read, Minister, in the plan you have submitted that the Preveza Prefecture is an area that has little to invest in the previous years. In this category, therefore, the quality characteristics of the Preveza Prefecture are well known. It's a county that has tourism, has farm food. There we have a lot of fruit and vegetable production. We have ovine and caprine animals in the mountains. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In this process, however, I note that it does not - on the basis of the features with which you integrate regions, as you are doing for the country - 44%, 45%. Only one municipality and one community is part of the nine that exist. I told you in committee too, and I would like to tell you now that the Preveza Prefecture has features and I think it can get into a process of integration of at least two municipal communities into this development law, precisely because it has agri-foodstuffs, and it touches on agri-foodstuffs, it also touches on tourism. Also, Minister, I would like to tell you that in the specific tables that exist, there are other examples of this. I'll only talk about Preveza. Join the special category - the one of the under three thousand inhabitants - an island that is on the coast, is 100 meters from the beaches of Parga. This island has a church upstairs. I'm not saying the Ministry claims to build there, obviously because it's an archaeological site. But in my view, we cannot give the political argument, let us not go into this process and give the political argument. And I'm talking about Panagitsa Island in the Parga area. To conclude, Minister, it is a development law that gives perspective. It opens new investments, opens horizons for young people to enter and produce. In any case, however, I would also like you to listen to what I have to say about my law, take it into account and, depending on your position, take it into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u35	Mr Constantine Barbarousis has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u36	We are talking here in plenary about the euphemistically euphemistic bill of development which God will do in development. They should normally call it anti-developmental. And how can a bill of development be considered, since neural sectors such as steel, synthetic fibres, coal, shipbuilding and transport, which supported the local economy and of which many families lived? Small hotel units are also affected, as more than three stars are strengthened. In the context of the presentation of the development law, the Minister claimed that his central objective was the three-fold "innovation - production - small and medium-sized entrepreneurship". However, by imposing such a high tax on small and medium-sized and free professionals plus the bureaucracy that is never missing from Greece alone with a miracle there can be growth. It is not possible to continue to apply the bureaucratic tinglings of the past which are pre-emptive blocking factors in any development perspective. In this case, in fact, this year is to be seen as a loser, since it is practically impossible to activate the law. It is certain that this law lacks the possibility of a direct practical application, since, before it is activated, at least three months from now, there is the intention of the next assessment in the autumn and the possibility of new worse memorandum measures. The most likely is that what will come will make this law out of date before it can be implemented. The new law is expected to be activated in three months, after a number of ministerial decisions have been signed in the meantime. Especially in the agricultural sector, as stated in the bill, a joint ministerial decision by the Ministers for Economy and Rural Development, which will lay down specific conditions, conditions, specifications and restrictions for the application of the aid schemes for the processing and marketing of agricultural products, should be adopted. The agricultural sector in our country is the main feeder of food processing and produces high quality products. It covers a large proportion of the country's exports and contributes significantly, contributing to a reduction in the trade deficit. In this sense, the role of the agricultural sector is decisive and should be the absolute priority, as the main component of the Greek economy, as it stimulates the activity of existing small and medium-sized enterprises around it. Indeed, it would be very interesting for the ministers responsible to explain how they will convince us of investments in a tax storm affecting existing entrepreneurship. Unless the objective is the actual, ‘photographic’, and investments in the absolute choice of the present Government. The government must understand that jobs do not arise by magic. Does it really not concern the government that Greek companies are carrying their seats outside Greece? Does it not concern the fact that the padlocks on the market increase, not withstand unbearable taxation? The main axis of this bill is not the support of small, medium-sized and micro-enterprises, but those who will invest with amounts of more than EUR 20 million. In fact, we are talking about foreign investors. In fact, your government, in order to facilitate them even more, provides for a residence permit to be granted to their families. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. You'll tell me now: Did our residence permit hurt us? Here shares citizenship right and left as if it were pasadebos. SYRIZA stipulates that we are moving towards fair growth, where the benefits are shared together throughout society and the burdens will be divided in proportion to the different incomes. Development is a perceptible term. But when you say 'fair growth' what exactly do you mean? Is there an unreasonable development? What is happening right now in our country is really a theater of irrationality. Before you brought the development, you voted for the insurance and tax. There we had this oxymomile: Come in here and say your soul hurts that you vote for these painful measures, but you cannot do anything else. On the other hand, we should have the Members of the New Democracy who would be very happy to vote for these measures, but with a heavy heart in the end they did not vote for them! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The truth is that only with a left government could all these anti-grass and anti-national works pass through. The reality is that Greece is currently purely occupied. It has completely been subjected to foreign power and has been converted into a state-proctorate. Of course, does that not bother you too much if we judge from Mrs Baja's words, which said that 'we have endured four hundred years of slavery, ninety-nine will hurt us?' Well, listen, everyone in here, right and left: The neck of the Greek yoke does not end up!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Papaliou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the sustainable, sustainable and socially just productive reconstruction of the country, which is serving this bill, it is attempting to change the productive model of organising the Greek economy. The new production model, starting with the country's comparative advantages, consists of the production of marketable high-value products and services, increasing the technological content of the products and services produced, facilitating the entry of new entrepreneurship actors, creating tools to adapt the development process to the specific economic activities and specific areas, which refers to economic sectors such as the agri-food chain, information technology, communications, tourism, rural tourism and areas in which priority is given and should be given. In addition, it consists of strengthening and strengthening the extroversion of Greek enterprises and supporting domestic production potential. The new production model aims to increase competitiveness and integrate new technologies and innovative elements into the Greek production system, through the intensity of knowledge and in a sustainable way, to increase the average size of enterprises, through partnerships to achieve economies of scale, to reduce unemployment and to increase employment, in particular young people. In the reduction and reversal of the outflow of human resources, in the "haemorrhage", that is to say, which has been affecting both the Greek economy and society for years and, finally, the diffusion of growth outside the large urban centres, that is, in balanced development, because Greece is not only Athens and the Lefkanopod of Attica. Balanced regional development is achieved by identifying less favoured areas - specific areas are identified in the bill - which are included in the specific categories of aid and are treated differentiated from the others. In this bill, specific areas are identified by criteria for their mountainous character, the short distance from continental or maritime borders, their island status and the reduction of the permanent population of more than 30%. Perhaps, Minister, we also had to add criteria, such as the disadvantaged and declining element, which characterise areas even non-mountain, so that they are not excluded from the'special aid areas', municipal units which need support and can be small but important cores of creation. Minister, I will repeat what I have said in the committee on what is contained in the map of specific aid areas and the corresponding table for the Arcadia Prefecture. This map does not include three specific areas of the Arcadia Prefecture, the Municipal Unit of Tropices, the Municipal Unit of Iraia and the Municipal Unit of Gortyno, primarily disadvantaged, declining areas, with a stablely reduced population. I think that an answer must be given and the unjust treatment of these regions corrected. Even if their non-inclusion is derived from numbers and statistics, which if it is unreasonable and proves that numbers in the light of statistics make mistakes and do not tell the truth, this statistical picture is virtual and is disproved by the harsh reality itself. Anyone who has visited or even heard of these areas is aware of the state of abandonment, desertification and turbulence they have been experiencing for years. Therefore, these municipalities are also requested to be included in the ‘specific aid areas’. I close this parenthesis and conclude by saying that for the specific regions, on the basis of the draft law, a differentiated strategy is being implemented with a view to demographic and territorial cohesion, by improving attractiveness and ensuring the development process. Locality is indicated in order to select a targeted approach that includes broader sets. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, I'm ending. The differentiated strategy for the specific areas is to integrate into specific categories of aid on the basis of this area. It is intended to develop integrated sectoral and spatial projects, to support enterprises and cooperative schemes involved in sectoral local production systems or in individual productive chains, aiming in particular at strengthening employment, especially in declining areas, maintaining and attracting new human resources and regional convergence by exploiting the comparative advantages of each region. For example, we are talking about the development of raw materials, the climate, the territorial conditions, which allow the production of quality local products, the interconnection of local production with the processing and attraction of visitors, rural tourism and, of course, the support of local links and the integration of the local economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u39	The minute's over, Mr. Papaliou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u40	I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is certain that everything will be judged by the result. In this context, however, the Greek region can cease to be the parisan and be the protagonist in the sustainable, sustainable and socially just production reconstruction of the country. Thank you for your tolerance, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, too. Mr Kostis Hatzidakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have come to speak as the representative of the infallible party? Oh, no. I want to question the good intentions of the government majority? No way. I would argue that the bill we are debating today only has negative provisions? Of course not. However, ladies and gentlemen, and without mentioning individual provisions of the development bill, with regard, for example, to the fact that the evaluator is only one or that it requires thirty-two ministerial decisions to put the law into effect, etc., I would like to ask you and think about the following. When this development law gives 480 million new subsidies for a five-year period, when we all know and all international houses say that for the same time the investment needed for the country is between 100 and 120 billion, is it or is it not this development law a drop in the ocean, nothing? And is it reason to celebrate for nothing? But I want to go further. Let us assume that this development law is not an empty shirt. Look at the overall policy of the Government in the field of development and tell me, please - think about the good thing afterwards - if I ask questions, I am wrong or not. Is it true or not that this Government imposed capital controls, while the banks previously operated much better than their current function? Is it true or not that, over the days of this government, taxes on businesses have been further increased, and today the Greek Banks Association points out, by letter to the Government, that the real estate investment companies, which have invested in Greece a half and a billion euros over the last period? Is it true or not that you have taken a ready-made framework law to simplify the authorisation of businesses and that the first ministerial decisions and this law had already been adopted you have kept in the 'fridge' for 15 months? Is it true or not that you have taken the Greek capital investment fund ready, and have you kept this on the ice too? Is it true or not that you have taken a ready proposal from the Israeli YOZMA organisation on innovation and have you also put it in the government's ‘freezer’? Is it true or not that you have stopped almost all PPP projects, namely, public-private waste management partnerships, and can create new jobs? Is it true or not that you are now celebrating the Greek - some of you, why is Mr. Spirtz crying - and the airports claiming that these contracts contribute to development, while so long you have denounced them and kept them on the sidelines without going ahead with them? Is it true or not that Greece submitted, on your own Government, a 20-third line, in the twenty-eight countries of the European Union, requests for the Juncker package, and we should obviously be the first to be, because we have the greatest needs? Is it true or not that in today's ESDP - which you have put the Prime Minister here to celebrate for the ESDP - we have absorptions that do not reach 2%, ladies and gentlemen? And who do these responsibilities belong to? Is it true or not - am I wrong? - that you've taken an economy into a dry, even growth of 0.8%, and returned it back to the well of the recession, while there were positive forecasts before both 2015 and 2016? Please tell me where I'm wrong. Am I wrong that you're here to do things better and have you made them worse? Because what else does it mean that the country has returned to the recession? Greece cannot go forward in this way. Greece today must be a pleasant surprise to the markets, to the investors and to look at us at another glance and come to invest in this place. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not the way you are going, because investors are not the trotsky movements internationally. Investors want another policy, which is implemented in other countries. You cannot attract investment by means of celebrations, because you are increasing taxes - because that is what you are doing - or because you are crying about adopting some, even a few, reforms. You cannot, of course, have this idea of things as a whole, celebrate your failures and protest, attack all those who want to protest against your policy. I know of course you don't want to resign. I know you want to stay in your chairs, but I know something else, regardless of the protests, the reality itself will avenge you. You yourselves avenge yourselves. Anti-Policy doesn't make you so much Civic Opposition and the rest of the parties. The reality of your old statements, which are here to remind you that you are a demagogic party, a party which, as a government, has failed miserably. Unfortunately, our country is also failing with you, but I believe that this course will soon be reversed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u43	Mr Yoyakas from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u44	Mr President, may I have the floor for a moment before my colleague?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u45	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u46	I would like to correct some of the facts and give some brief answers. First of all, we regret the failure of the Hatzidakis programme to the Ministry of Development, but the government has changed!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u47	Yeah, yeah. We get it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u48	I suppose it is clear that we were not committed to implementing your design. I assume it is understandable in this House that we have had the right to change the central points of Mr Hatzidakis' policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u49	You shouldn't have changed things. That's what Mr. Hatzidakis said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u50	Secondly, you're a little unfair because I didn't put the Hatzidakis law to simplify authorisations. You didn't make the decisions. You're completely wrong with that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u51	You're wrong. The Ministry of Development...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u52	You're completely wrong with that. So you had time to do this. We are committed to continuing simplification. I said it the other day. The World Bank's study is over. We shall proceed to more courageous simplifications in this respect. Thirdly, claim that the new law has 492 million. We said he has 1,1 billion, along with tax exemptions. Fourth, what do we do? It is a total of 3.6 billion for the next few years. Why don't we give a single euro to the old laws? Is that what you're suggesting? That's where we'll give 2.6 billion. So if you use a law how much money will go into supporting investment from old and new development laws, you should use the right number, which is 3.6 billion. Fifthly, claim every week that the number of investments needed by the country is increasing. We have 80 billion of the two studies we have used. He needs 80 billion. A few days ago I heard the Opposition do 100 billion. Today you've been overdoing it, 120 billion. With 80 billion, isn't the economy coming back? You're talking about 100 billion, 120 billion? Don't come next week and you're doing 140 billion, because it's too much the way it's swelling. In response to the request of 80 billion, which we agree that so many investments will be needed, you should take into account, firstly, public investment, secondly, the financing of the NRP - I would remind you that the financing of the NRP by 2020 is 20 billion, and a significant part of it concerns entrepreneurship investments - thirdly, private investments made with bank or other funding. Therefore, in order to reach this picture, you should give the share, which is actually due to a development law, to the ESDP, to strategic investments - we repeated it yesterday, every one of these instruments plays another role - on the European Investment Bank's financial instruments, and so on. You mentioned the 'Yunker Plan'. I have submitted to Parliament the list sent by the New Democracy for the candidate projects of the 'Yunker Plan'. Should I testify to him again? These were a thousand projects with a degree of maturation of "zero". It was a list, a "shopping list", created by the New Democracy...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u53	Two years ago, this happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u54	Yeah, yeah. It was two years ago exactly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u55	Well, then, he mentioned it as a name...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u56	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u57	It was the extent to which the New Democracy understood what the 'Yunker Plan' was, what it meant to mean by'maturity process', and so on. In this year, we have matured to a satisfactory extent these forty-two projects, and that is what we have submitted. I hear things that really surprise me. I hear that we have frozen various research projects - innovative projects prepared by the government - I suppose in the context of the partnerships of the'venture capital' - for some innovative projects. I think the government has done much more than you imply. The Fotakis Act begins, has been passed. He's found 200m euros. It's starting this week. We continue a variety of incentives and contacts for the whole innovative stage. It's hard to criticize the government for that. You're aggressing us because we didn't go ahead with the garbage PPPs. We've moved on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u58	Who are they?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u59	I'll tell you. I signed for Kozani in Western Macedonia...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u60	One, Macedonia.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u61	I'm glad you agree. There are two others, Epirus and Serres, whose timetable is under discussion. However, the most important thing is not whether we move on or not. Most importantly, we have created a new regional waste management plan.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u62	Elijah? Attica? Peloponnese?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u63	Wait a minute, Mr. Hatzidakis. This design, firstly, is compatible with the objectives of the European Union 2020. He says that 50% recycling must take place at the source and 50%...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u64	The strategy?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u65	I'm sorry, but we have a different strategy. I'm sorry. So it says about 50% of the method you propose.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u66	Mr President, if the Minister is put to every Member, then nobody will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u67	So the idea that the government...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u68	All right, Minister. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u69	Colleague, please don't interrupt. You're a talker.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u70	I'm the speaker for the day after tomorrow, but if you answer every speaker, we'll never talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u71	Mr. Kikilia, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u72	Yeah, but don't interrupt me. You have this tendency. Don't interrupt me. Did I ever interrupt anyone?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u73	If you're talking to every speaker, it's a break.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u74	Please. You're prone to interruption. You've become famous for that. Famous you've done for the interruption.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u75	Minister, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u76	Words and accusations are good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u77	Let me finish. With Mr. Hatzidakis, I have a dialogue, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u78	Minister, do not give me an interactive character to the debate. That's not how it works. Put an end to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u79	I repeat that the management system that we are proposing, firstly, is better, has strategic objectives and the PPPs, which we have mentioned, are part of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u80	All right, Minister. Mr. Jogakas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u81	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u82	No, no, Mr. Hatzidakis. You asked many questions and it was reasonable to cause answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u83	But he talked about me and I have to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u84	No, it can't. Mr. Jogakas has the floor now. Here, you have the floor, Mr. Jogakas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u85	But he mentioned Mr. Hatidakis by name.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u86	But that can't be. There's no such thing as that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u87	It's not right, Mr. President. The Minister can answer every Member and the Member cannot speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u88	It's out of order, Mr. Hatzidakis. Don't you understand? So many of your colleagues are waiting. Don't you see it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u89	Just give me a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u90	Then you'll challenge the Minister's answer and we'll go by night.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u91	But I'm not going to provoke anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u92	Your Chief will be speaking in half an hour, Mr. Hatzidakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u93	If you'd given me a minute, I'd be done now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u94	All right, well, you can talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u95	In short, I would like to say that for the law on authorisations I had made the first ministerial decisions, the procedures were simplified to a hundred and then 'frozen' activities. You have now told us that you will cooperate with the World Bank. Uh, we worked with her, too. It took fifteen months to understand that you have to continue working together? Secondly, with regard to the amounts of development law, I did not tell you that you have the opportunity to provide infinite funds. But you do not have the right to celebrate the 'empty shirt' which we are voting on today, because the new subsidies are 480 million, and that is accurate. Do you want to put on the tax exemptions? Is that 1 billion? Until the 80 billion you say, how long is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u96	Well, Mr. Hatzidakis, you're not going to speak now. Please put a perfect one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u97	I shall conclude, Mr President. I will also say about the ESS, which the Minister referred to once again. Recognises or does not recognise that the ESRB, and perfectly move forward, can only meet the needs of the country by one fifth in investments? These things are very specific. And even more specific - and that is why I did not get any response - is that the country has returned to the recession. And don't tell me...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u98	That is what we are doing here. Thank you, Mr Hatzidakis. We're continuing with Mr. Yoyaka.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u99	You got 1.8% growth and we're in remission for second year.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u100	Put it down, Mr. Hatzidakis. You have the floor, Mr. Yoyaka.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, following the great truths of Mr Hatzidakis, and the time required for today's SYRIZA - ANLE to come to reality and to realism, no one disputes the valuable time lost to our country in order to be able to find the steps of development again. I am also one of those who believe that the current government has neither the will nor the ability to bring investment and development. He brought a tax system that is anti-developing, with contributors that drive investment and increase the padlocks. He banned the deposits from the banks and led them to a new recapitalisation, aggravating the liquidity problem in the real economy. He did everything he could not do to prevent the big privatisations, which he received from the Samara government, until he stopped "playing delays" only because the lenders imposed it. It repealed by amendment provisions on land uses, which were intended to facilitate the licensing and installation of different activities and turned us back thirty years. The conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, is that, as a cocoon does not bring spring, development law cannot bring about investment in spring. And let the Prime Minister say that in spring the resurrection of the Greek economy would come. No resurrection, no spring in the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, it could be said that even so, even lately, a new development law is something. What, though, can interested persons expect from this law? Unfortunately, I would say not much, because it is a law that as a whole gives neither strong incentives nor facilitates investment. Only EUR 600 to EUR 700 million will be given as aid for the new investment projects. The Minister, along with the tax exemptions, says that it will reach EUR 1.1 billion. But the bar, Minister, still remains very low. And this money will start flowing from 2017 and will be given for the next six years, because, as you quite rightly said, there are also old loose ends. No part of the aid is paid any more, nor are there any facilities available, such as the offsetting of tax obligations with the aid. Businesses from the older developmenters will wait seven years to get the entire grant. Here we must sincerely look at it again, because there is a case, people, investors who have been active, who have to deal with huge problems, who have to pay the guarantees and the banks, if they have been borrowed. So, under the terms that put everyone in the same bag, there is a risk that a huge problem will arise. We will therefore have a mass abandonment, if that occurs, of investment projects and bankruptcy can hit each other's door. Let me remind you here that the seven years are catching the large investment projects that have been ratified by law in the Parliament. Who will, then, think of moving a major investment on such terms? How large investments will come that create massive jobs and multiple benefits for the local economy. There is therefore, ladies and gentlemen, a problem of strong incentives. Beyond the incentives, however, there are other weaknesses that promise to make life difficult for anyone interested in joining the new development law. And here I will just say two examples. One is that bureaucratic processes take a lot of time and the other is that it is difficult for stakeholders to read the law to understand what is being strengthened, how much is being strengthened, in which area, in which sector and in which business. And close to them, add more than thirty ministerial decisions to determine the aid schemes, which is not mentioned until they are adopted. So, gentlemen of the government, if you don't want to help the potential investors, what else will you do? How much longer would you punish them? Ladies and gentlemen, I have left for the end the issue of the specific areas where increased investment incentives are being given. I said that with the current definition of border regions, areas with serious underdevelopment problems are excluded. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] That is why I have proposed, like some other colleagues, that they be regarded as border areas, therefore specific areas, as well as the whole precise prefectures, as already provided for in recent laws. In addition, many colleagues have mentioned it in the House. Unfortunately, I did not hear any convincing argument from the Minister. Of course, even if we changed that, it could not cover the serious weaknesses of the bill, a bill that may have started with good intentions, but it finally reminds of an empty shirt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u102	Mrs Alexandra Papagiga has the floor now. Here you go, Mrs. Papariga, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, the credit the government receives from those who called them blackmailers, extremist neoliberals, colonists, etc. is perfectly justified. It explains - and I am sorry to say so - and the jealousy of the New Democracy and other parties, because, anyway, the New Democracy and these parties claim to be part of the plot of government. Not in general terms of authority. For us, this law - which, of course, has some synchronisations because we are talking about a time of crisis - will literally work towards the Greek people, workers, micromass and poor workers, as a modern vampire. And we say it with full consciousness what that term means. For example, on one side, it can be worse than the memorials that have been voted on themselves. Firstly, development law, as is said, legitimizes, perpetuates and consolidates the memos. There are no investors in Greece at risk of taking back some of the measures that have passed the Memorandum. Nor is there any reason to return the losses after all these years of crisis. Secondly, investors will not come if the unregulated and literally smashed labour relations are not operational and if there is no prospect of them becoming even worse. Investors aren't fools to come! Thirdly, investors will not come if they do not know that they can use state property for thirty, forty and ninety years. Of course, the Greek people do not have to wait for thirty and forty years to try out what it means to make use of the state property in the form of rental, temporary concession, etc., because it is absolutely certain that after such a period of time, things will be completely different and the people will manage it themselves. In any case, they would not come or show interest in making investments if they do not have a very cheap manipulated labour force and if they do not expect a new trade union law, which hampers trade unions and democratic workers' freedoms even more officially and more openly. In that sense, this law is a real vampire. First - first, it contains utopia and delusion. It is 100% illusion that new - fifteen thousand - jobs will be created. I tell you ten times more investment, jobs will be minimal and we will look at the number of 1.5 million unemployed with binoculars. And the jobs that will be created - and not all of them will be permanent, apart from the fact that they will have far-reaching conditions, they will be much less than the jobs that will be lost in the coming years. That is why we are talking in such heavy terms about the law, for example in terms of wages, wages, etc. The higher the productivity of labour, the lower the wage value. The more we have more innovations, the more the value of wages and products will be sceptical for the vast majority of workers. And get you an example. In the pre-crisis period, in the 1960s, 1970, 1980 and the early 1990s in Greece, where there were growth rates above the European Union average, so many new jobs were created? Seven hundred thousand unemployed - officially registered - were in crisis. One and a half million were not made with the crisis, so many more were added. The previous development programmes, which were held by previous governments over a long period of time - not in a period of one year and two and three, decades and fifteen years - created seventy-seven thousand new jobs. And now, in the current circumstances and, indeed, in selective positions, where investments are located, will the unemployment problem be addressed? The number of unemployed and the number of workers will hardly increase even further. Statistically, unemployment may fall slightly when a job is divided into five, because precisely today technology enables not only trade, but also the production process itself to reduce the number of stable workers. It is true that you are also being criticised by both BSE and New Democracy and other parties. Where is the criticism? In wanting to invite more capitalists to invest and those who do not enter the development law to enjoy the same privileges. It makes sense on their part and on the BSE side, which is in any case interested in alleviating intra-urban contradictions. But this development plan, which you are saying in the coming years, also reveals the following thing, not that there is a lack of liquidity, but that there are over-accumulating funds that have greeded over all these years, of course, on the banks, on the Lagard lists, on the Panama lists, regardless of whether or not some people had taxed, this is something that one needs to be checked and not to be left unpunished, is not the issue - over-accumulative funds which at the moment want to be placed in those areas that ensure maximum profitability and not human needs. Where are the new investments going to be in Greece? Maritime, trade, agrifood, information technology, technology, innovation, etc., in these sectors. Will investment be made to make extensive programs of modern popular housing for new couples? Are there going to be investments in water management throughout Greece? Locally there may also be some sewers, etc., if there are areas that Mr Psinakis will bring, for example, Chinese investments to make casinos on the rope or I don't know what. Such local fragmentary works can be done. Are there going to be plays for popular camps? Will projects be carried out to provide cheap tourism and recreation for people’s families? Are there going to be investments in productive construction in Greece not to import? Oh, no. Will investment be made for means of transport for cheap modern transportation for the people? No, it will be where facilities and means of enrichment are created in specific enterprises. In fact, we will have projects linked to seafarers, commercial facilities and transport. Greece right now is a hub But I'll tell you something else. Don't be so sure that's gonna happen. We are not at the time of the Marshall Plan or in the post-war development of industry in Europe, which, for various reasons, led American money over-accumulated there, since the two World Wars did not take place on their territory, took place in Europe. That's not it either. And these investments, which will be made, will exacerbate both the disparity and the anarchy in Greece. And these include the sperm of the new crisis cycle. We know what social system we live in. We know that the great contradiction is not between the memoranda and the development which all parties have, but between the capitalist way of production and the need for modern human needs to be met. That is the real contradiction. It is not the contradiction between one or the other memorandum and recipes. And from this point of view, our objective is one: As long as the movement in Greece can ensure that things do not get worse, as far as the rights of workers are concerned and as long as we can, with the struggle of the people, there is even some restoration of the losses. That is where we will confine ourselves, of course, by highlighting the country's real development potential and by calling on the people to organise their counter-reaction. There'll be a win. There will be growth. So return the losses. Secondly, the people must realise that they must take the whole of their lives into their hands. That means the property that exists in the place that has been done with its sweat or that has the place as a ground, underground, etc. It must also fight not to give up the government and come to another, it must fight against all power and not just the one or the other government. We at least think that today the people should not believe either that they will be redistributed or that they will not find jobs or that there will be growth in Greece for their benefit. He must claim - the least he can do - a fighter for the loss of, of course, integrated in a fight for counter-attack. To claim everything that belongs to him and everything that this place can offer. Because this place has considerable potential for development, which, unfortunately, are not among the people. They belong to those who exploit the people in the most heated way. The credit you get from Mr. Shoeble is indeed worth it. We have to admit that. You have conquered the art of bleeding, disorientation, mockery of the people, art on a very high level. And your credit is yours. Don't just expect the same credit from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u104	Mr Loverdos, Parliamentary Representative for Democratic Independence, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u105	Mr President, you said every four speakers to speak to a parliamentarian.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u106	They talked about ten, eleven.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u107	Mr. President, if he wants to talk, I'm waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u108	Let him speak, Mr President. After you called him, it's not right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u109	Don't waste time, ladies and gentlemen. Come on, Mr. Loverdo. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was expecting, as a Parliamentary representative of the Democratic Independence, a number of colleagues, that other parties' parliamentary representatives should be heard, that the National Representation in the House has acquired a view on what this is today that our government is recommending that we vote so that my arguments can be heard in a positive or negative way. Before I write them, however, I would like to say that we are on the day of the gathering with the slogan "Resign". And as a parliamentary representative of the Democratic Alliance, I want to report. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority SYRIZA - ANEL, there is a protest to the citizens about many things, many issues, about the lies you have said and about your things. And if the lies are trying to demarcate them in a different way - I will say for that later - in relation to the September elections, your events do not have any doubts or counter-problems. We, as PASOK, published fifteen of them. And against these things of yours, the world is moving. If one wanted to symbolise 2016 SYRIZA - ANEL, I believe that the most characteristic example and symbolism at the same time are the ninety thousand less beneficiaries of the EASA. For a party that supported and supported his arguments in the redistribution, the abolition for ninety thousand people of this allowance and in a few years, by 2019, for four hundred thousand, is the symbolism of disparity of speech and works. Against this move citizens are protesting. They are complaining about increasing indirect taxes, increasing health contributions with cuts in main pensions for contributions, which would go to health, but they do not go, for the reduction of duty-free allowances, for the reduction of the heating allowance, for the increase in the price of tickets in public transport, for the cuts in the disabled - mercy - to the disabled! - for reducing the lower pension, for increasing the share of medicines and tests, for HICPs by 2031, to be abolished. You were going to increase the C.E.R.D. and take out HIS. You did the exact opposite. For all this, citizens are protesting against you. And as a Minister has decided to give television licences, in this spirit, in exactly the same attitude, you tell the citizens who protest against you that they are illegal. That they are turning against the country, the Government's representative said, expressing all the ministers. How you did not say that the demonstrations were directed against you and against the nation! It's all you haven't said. Our governments, ministers here, and Prime Ministers, I remember, perhaps with excesses, attempted to speak with the square at that time, to make arguments, to try to convince. On the contrary, we did not have peaceful protest gatherings. On the contrary, we had pre-compensation and barbarism. I have said features that you were jumping on our honor and our bodies. And yet we were not aware to say that mergers are illegal. We condemned and denounced beatings, violence and pre-conflicts, not concentrations. You up to the "lion" are being recruited from yesterday to promote today's event. Even anti-concentrations are being organized to lead her to failure. One insistence on something. One cannot curse the peaceful political protests against one another. No one has the right to be reproached because otherwise it betrays its status and its anti-democratic character. As far as SYRIZA is concerned, it reveals that we are right, when we call you "Left Chaves - Maduro". Ladies and gentlemen, as far as we are concerned, the issue of the current functioning of the National Representation, the development law, the political argument that wants to take advantage of it, your general political argument, is that it rains billions. Many of you have said it, and they keep saying it. It's just a circle. He's not even closed yet. You haven't even taken the dose money. It closes - with a tense duration - a cycle to come to the next phase of the rain of billions. I have followed very carefully, without taking the floor, all the meetings of the committee. I have followed very carefully, first of all, our rapporteur, Mr Constantinople, to understand - by listening to the Minister - what the government says and - by listening to a serious opposition party - what the opposition says. And in "he rains news", Mr. Constantinople told you that for 2016, nothing rains, no fishes, nothing, by this law. For 2017, something 27 million and the total amount you want to give is 480 million plus 27 million tax exemptions. And for your tax exemptions, we have said in a credible way that it should be with the data of bureaucracy and corruption, which is right for anyone who criticizes the previous developmenters. That's right. We agree. And she's not self-criticistic, she's late. It was a pooled experience. 'We have to change the Roots', we said. Ladies and gentlemen, the only development law that worked in Greece - the only one - was the one in 1953, which consisted of three and a half pages, perhaps even a lot! The only one who worked! Because the Greeks were hungry at that time and they wanted these tools to be used there and then, in other words, immediately. Now, you replicate misdemeanours of older developmentists, without offering the rain of billions. And what happens when some of these millions are raining, ladies and gentlemen, we have presented them with relief. First of all, it takes seven years for the operation that took part in the old development programmes - five to seven says the Minister, a lot, that is, anyway. For the new ones, our own encrypted experience of studying the provisions is that money will take funds, add funds to its capital. He, who will borrow in the face of the funds that he will get from the development project, is at risk with what has happened to the former, with delays, corruption, too many problems. In fact, after it works and has gone bankrupt, it will be dissolved. It'll belong to the charges they'll have to return if they get some money on the course of the program back. It's a tool that no one will need for him. It does not make use of past experience under any circumstances. And above all, ladies and gentlemen, let me leave now - let me leave criticism in the past and how it should be exploited. We're going to something that's here. Was it resolved in a year and a half government of SYRIZA - ANEL half a problem of bureaucracy in administration and justice? None! Not even a half! Does the majority of these problems have any conscience? No conscience. And it turns out by her things. Are there anti-corruption institutions resulting from bureaucracy in development or more generally bureaucracy in administration and justice? None! No attempt to solve something. No indication that there is a consciousness of the problems. Ladies and gentlemen, if there was faith in the need for these changes, we would have seen it. We haven't seen her. If there were any interest in correcting any of the old problematic aspects of development laws, we would have seen it. We haven't seen it. On the contrary, we hear contradictory arguments - Mr Constantinople raised them yesterday - even on the incentives relating to quasi-qualified, conditions - incentives in relation to jobs. The figures presented by the Minister and the Secretary-General of the Ministry are completely contradictory. They show a lack of consciousness and common planning, a lack of consciousness about what they are doing. But these have been mentioned. What could a Minister have said to prove the consciousness of his experience? He could have fought to achieve setbacks, setbacks necessary. I understand it saying 'the Treasury does not accept them' but is Minister for Development. It should have affected things. That's what we should have done. We didn't make it. If they did, it would be a sign of progress. There must be a set-aside of what you will give with the assured debts, a set-aside so that you can move forward. In addition, issues relating to participation in determining 25% of the same origin, the same participation as total assets. How do we request a 100% advance tax payment from a company for next year? That would mean consciousness, ladies and gentlemen, that from the problems that have arisen, we have gained experience and something we are doing. Above all, most of these money, instead of being a subsidy, should be a tax exemption, which does not require bureaucracy, which is automatic and the Court of Auditors tells you - because that is what we hear, we do not hear you - that from this measure 27 million will be expenditure on the Greek public and the expenditure on the Greek public. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to speak of development in this difficult management place, we must make four assumptions. It's just four assumptions. First assumption that a government must be ready to make all the necessary moves in the first six months of its government. It's a sudden war against the problems of the Greek state, which you have to prove immediately that you had the opportunity, you had thought about them, and you have found the tools to solve the problems. Second admission. No one can reliably claim that the transfers of the NSRP solve the problems of the competitiveness and growth of the Greek economy. They don't solve it. No one can claim that microtransfers at the level of this development law can also solve the problems of competitiveness and growth. Besides, if you don't solve problems of the past, corruption and bureaucracy will be in front of you. Fourthly, no one can avoid the assumption that or you solve the problems of bureaucracy in administration and justice, which is a barrier to the functioning of the economy, or development will be very difficult and will not be in the healthy form you need to be. In this context we will make seven proposals, which you should have thought about. You've lost time. You have no chance of doing this anymore, nor have you ever captured the size and type of problems you face. Your Government should have operated at least after July 2015 as an emergency government in economic matters: (a) competitiveness, investments; (b) RDPs with government councils under the presidency of the Prime Minister. Experience in Greece is one of these methods of operation in an emergency. Secondly, the abolition of all forms of preventive control in the operation of businesses and, thirdly, the related abolition of authorisations to operate businesses other than minimum health-related exceptions and our culture. Fourthly, there is a special situation in the field of justice in cases involving economic content. Fifthly, changes here and now - these should have been made - to the Court of Auditors. When I heard what you have been saying in the last years of your opposition to the Court of Auditors, I collapsed. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a court which controls public spending. This expenditure control does not pay up 0,081% of the amounts assessed, and we have it and we welcome it. Transfers from the state to its suppliers are delayed by this and you are looking at it and talking about a strategic development plan. It turns out you don't have anything in mind. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, eighteen are our minutes since yesterday. As regards bankruptcy law, I told you when we discussed red loans that you should have presented your plan for the second chance to the poor. Poor businessmen are tens of thousands. Greece is also entitled to a second and third chance. Nothing. You are not aware of the issues and the public in the form it has today cannot help. Ladies and gentlemen, every strategic change in public takes a decade to pay off if you've captured her properly. If the Greek state does not function in these circumstances, with legislated project groups in the Ministries on investment issues, it does not exist. From this, you have proved that you have no conscience for anyone. For no one! And by listening to you yesterday, in the thirty minutes of your speech, Minister, to talk about your strategy, about small, medium-sized, large investment, about these developmental small and medium-sized ones - I said how they are - about the big ones, about everything that is related to the economy, I understood that it was after a year and a half of a year about a report of ideas, which is not aware of the major and serious problems that you had to speak about. Finally, to conclude, you also had an insistence on your speech yesterday on what is the mandate you have from the Greek people. You say it a lot. You refer to September 2015, avoiding in January 2015, with the tenth pension and the programme of Thessaloniki. Let's take it for a while. What did you say in September 2015? Were you saying what you're doing? That's what you claim. I want to remind you that you were talking about equivalents and a parallel program. You were talking about the return of your tax policies, which, as the dreadful Mr Philis said,'sufficiently four families are to be taxed to cover the equivalents'. Then he had the main problem with private education and VAT there. What happened from September to today? What happened to these four families Mr. Friends knew about? What happened? What did Alexiadis say in the timely question of major opposition on Monday? Nothing. For some circulars, some amendments were saying, some of the laws you'll bring, as you brought the developmentist. What did you do with what you promised in September? You were lying in September 2015. You fooled the world three times, abused the majority. Within 2015...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u111	Mr. Loverdo, 15 minutes were eighteen. Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u112	I'm closing my mind. And don't think that you've got some kind of mandate you're managing the country as better managers. If you had asked that, you'd have lost. You have asked for a vote to keep commitments, that is, promises, which you have not only kept, you have done exactly the opposite. No one, but no one gave you a mandate for better management, which you now claim to have as an order. And if you had seen it this way, paradoxing yourself, making another Observatory change, with what you are today introducing, Mr Stathakis, you prove that you are far behind the needs of the country and therefore your exit is a matter of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u113	Thank you. Mr. Germenos from Golden Dawn has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u114	The deposit of this bill looks like a theater of irrationality, in which the Greek people, who have been impoverished by the crisis and the memorials, are viewed. Today, with enormous indifference, the political forces, which have changed power for the last forty years and have led our country to the complete decline and to every sector of economic and production, compete well for who will bring more growth and prosperity to our country. A word appropriate to the occasion, mockery, as it is simply the continuation of the famous slogan “the hope is coming”, with which SYRIZA managed to deceive the Greek people, that he would allegedly tear the memorials. On the one hand, we have the government, in which it has found cover for almost the old PASOK, which, through their mechanisms and destructive policies, brought the economy to the edge of the cliff. Who remembers the PALCO case with Simitis playing the Balkans stabilising factor and in fact finances with public capital Greek companies to shut down and open their factories in the Balkans? On the other hand, we have the Acoustic Antipolistism, the completely detested in the eyes of the Greek people New Democracy, which, while receiving from the authorities of Postpopulation a blossom Greek industry with amazing growth prospects even in sectors of production, such as the manufacture of cars, electrical appliances, managed to put a gravel on every prospect of developing our heavy industry. It is, therefore, the least courageous that the perpetrators appear as saviors of their victims. The situation, as has been shaped, leaves no room for hope for a substantial recovery and development of the Greek economy and its productive industries, and this is because the political forces which manage the fate of our country in the last forty years remain under the hands of the international coconuts and sell our homeland to ensure their political survival. As Greek nationalists, of course, we are blowing optimism and we will never stop fighting. The salvation of the homeland can come, but only with a true national government, which alone in view of the interest of the people and the nation could overthrow the present chaotic situation and lay the foundations so that it can relaunch and recover, not only of the Greek economy, but also of the Greek society, by applying some simple fundamental principles and values. Golden Dawn is the only political force that, while respecting the Greek people and the hundreds of thousands of Greek citizens who have honoured it with their confidence, has tabled concrete realistic proposals aimed at supporting primary production, achieving the strategic objective of national self-sufficiency, supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, restoring industrial production, exploiting all national rich sources, selecting geopolitical strategies and exercising international diplomacy only in order to serve our national objectives. We know that these proposals could never be implemented by a government that is committed to the interests and requirements of the institutions, creditors, the troika and all kinds of international loan shark, which has invested in the destruction of Greece. Fortunately, however, for our country - and unfortunately for the rotten political establishment that broke our country - the Greeks are now awakening and the Golden Dawn is giggling.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u115	Thank you. Mr Balommenakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u116	Thank you very much. Mr President, the phrase 'national government' has been heard in this Chamber. I suppose he finds us opposing all of us. If it is what everyone is afraid of implying, I am sure that the opposition must be expressed in the most resounding way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u117	Can we change the name?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u118	Okay, if you don't mean what you want to mean. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been sufficiently stressed that the new development law is primarily aimed at strengthening medium-sized and small business initiatives. The criteria under which the various investment projects are classified have also been known. As far as it seems, these criteria are generally accepted by the most interested parties. That is why most of the institutions were in favour and the comments made were made on improvements, of which several were accepted by the Minister. To say today, 'and what do you want your operators to say? You don't? Money you give them!", as has been said, it is at least insulting to their institutions, since they are questioned with the presumption of reflection and with the widest knowledge of their interests. On the other hand, the political forces, which generally and vaguely deny the government's choice to promote aid to those enterprises that, as is often said, are the backbone of the Greek economy. With regard in particular to the Party of Officers - let me just say - its general position has not yet been made clear. It may be clearer until the end of the sitting. I turned to the speech by the rapporteur of the New Democracy at the first joint meeting of the committees on 7 June. The rapporteur is ironically commenting on our choice to strengthen more with less than fewer with more, saying that with growth the government wants to make a social policy. In her speech, she also expressed a political position that I would like to comment on. He said 0.87% of large businesses employ 40.66% of the employees. Based on this dubious precision, this figure has resulted in the innovative, as it has been described, idea that large businesses should be given preferential support. I read: 'Instead, therefore, of putting a class fine on growth and strengthening entrepreneurship, would it be better simply to give money where they are worthwhile, where something they are going to produce? That would be better." I give the floor to the rapporteur for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Antonis Balomeni, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In this context - unless I am mistaken - it seems that the New Democracy rejects the central choice of the draft law to be given immediate priority to small and medium-sized enterprises and proposes that the money be given to those who have the "knowhow". I'm telling you, I didn't know if this was the official position of the New Democracy in the end. Innovative, of course, you can't tell that idea, because it's what's been going on all these years. Unfortunately for New Democracy and fortunately for them, the representatives of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in the country do not think so. The President of the Hellenic Confederation of Trade and Entrepreneurship, Mr Korkidis, for example, who is nothing but to SYRIZA, welcomed the government's choice to direct the new development aid to small and medium-sized enterprises, and also adopted the central criterion whereby this option is made, which is an increase in employment. I am presenting to the Minutes and to Mr Corkides' speech for the truth. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Antonis Balomeni, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Here it is generally clear that there is a crisis of strategy in the New Democracy and that its differentiation comes from a purely ideological type of insistence that supposedly big capital, if strengthened, is what will create new jobs. This is an assessment which, as far as we know, has been disproved by the conclusion of previous development laws. Isn't that an ideoleptic obsession? Aren't these proposals, then, a class mark? Ladies and gentlemen, to date development laws have been lacking in reformist logic. They were irresponsiblely structured, with incomplete criteria, limited horizons and even closer social references. It is not a secret that they did not succeed and that is not the fault of the crisis. It is impressive that so far no one has defended - with arguments and not with reference to what was planned - the logic of the earlier development laws. We do not claim that this draft law solves the problem of development. We are not proposing to society a Swiss suite, but a useful tool, adapted to the current potential of the economy. To conclude, I would like to say that an indication that this draft law is adapted to Greek reality is that the exceptions to Article 7 do not just copy European regulations, but also exclude other categories, in line with the dynamics they can have themselves and if they are likely to create new jobs or less. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I would also like to refer to today's gathering, if I may, with a phrase of half a minute, except for a manuscript. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that this is hypocrisy. No one spoke of the unconstitutionality of the concentration itself. Just commented on the motto. Not "Resign!" - that has the right to say - but the motto 'No parties or trade unions'. We believe that some in here will remember the saying of Papandreou that 'there is no institution but the people.' We will all remember it, and we all understand what this observation wants to say. I don't have time to comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u119	You pussy! You're also a witness!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u120	Mr Mitsotakis, President of the Officerate, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday I tabled a four-page letter to the President of Parliament, which I am tabling today in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In this letter I underline the great problems and malfunctions in the way this House operates and the parliamentary procedure. I mentioned specific examples showing the establishment of a specific parliamentary autocracy. For example, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention the following: thirty-four acts of legislation in seventeen months, on an annual basis of three times as much as the previous government had put forward. One hundred and ten late ministerial amendments, which have been accepted. Of the forty-six topical questions tabled to Mr Tsipras, only three have been discussed. And the request by the Officer for opposition to a debate on the setting-up of a committee of inquiry into closed banks, for capital controls, for the third memorandum, is still not scheduled, despite the request made earlier by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. So that, ladies and gentlemen, was yesterday morning. Watch what's following. Last night, if I understand well, by midnight, the government testified what exactly? One amendment - bill. This is an amendment tabled last night in a completely irrelevant bill. Fortunately, following the reaction of Members of Parliament from all sides, the government and Mr Mouszalas have personally decided to withdraw the amendment in question. This is not a picture of parliamentary democracy and what has been happening in this Chamber in recent months is an insult to the Greek Parliament, it is a challenge to all Greeks, it is a shame on the government and shame on democracy itself. Mr President, I personally make you responsible for everything that is going on and the House cannot...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u122	Are you addressing the President of Parliament?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u123	Of course, I'm talking to the president...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u124	It's not a parliamentary democracy. What democracy is then, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u125	...and not to you. Why are you interrupting?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u126	I asked.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u127	Are you interrupting the President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u128	I don't understand! Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u129	Mr President, I think that, in your attitude, you are proving exactly what I am saying. So please, I do not accept any interruptions. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'm addressing the president, who I hope listens to me from the closed circuit...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u130	I asked you, too, if you'd like, answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u131	...to take the relevant decisions to stop government arbitrariness and put an end to this undemocratic behaviour which undermines the authority of Parliament and our Parliamentary Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to the subject of the bill. The government is trying to get away from the deadlocks it has created, claiming that it can achieve fair growth. In fact, fair growth. It is only that the policies that follow do not serve growth, but, of course, neither justice and no taste can falsify the harsh reality. The Greek economy will lose in two years - in 2015 and 2016-21 billion in total in GDP, compared to where it could have been found if your government had not intervened. We'll return to where we were at the end of 2014 sensibly sometime towards the end of 2017. These are three lost years, three years of unemployment, poorness, disappointment. Investments are not made, liquidity is not there, and entrepreneurship is driven from everywhere. What exactly are you talking about, Minister? The recent package of taxes you have voted on primarily affects the weakest Greeks. CSR and pensions are cut without yet being replaced by the minimum guaranteed income. The public health system collapses and the weakest Greeks today feel more unprotected. What kind of justice are you talking about? Of course, the citizens are tired and certainly want stability and prospects. But they know that this can no longer be guaranteed by you, ladies and gentlemen of the government majority. They feel frustrated at the same time, but also deceived, and that's why they're indignant with you. So learn not to be disturbed when these citizens are gatherings and marching, and when they are protesting worlds as part of the law and looking for other solutions and outlets. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] For the right to demonstrations, as long as they are done under the law, not only do SYRIZA voters have all Greek citizens. The longer you continue this unscrupulous policy of overtaxation, which leads the economy to the recession - I am opening parentheses: there is a recession in the Bank of Greece and for 2016 - and it leads to closure of businesses and despair of the middle class, so will the protest against your government grow. This protest will go beyond the parties' limits and turn into a strong majority current. So why do you panic about a citizens' gathering? Why such a gross depreciation? Why so uncomplicated class division? How hypocritical is, in the end, all those who have built careers on anti-government demonstrations today to be indignant because citizens without any incitement and no support express their discontent with the government? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Those who once targeted those who did not protest are today targeting those who protest. Only the announcement - notice - notice - of a gathering to make your true authoritarian face surface. We had warned you the seasons of the great intensity, in 2011 and 2012, that it is time to reap the storms of the winds that you sowed at the time of the great antimony rage. Our democracy, you know, is not at risk from people who demonstrate peacefully without being professional protesters. However, it is at stake by those who systematically exploited citizens' anger to promote their party interests, by those who have unequivocally and irritatedly invested in the most basic instincts of human nature - anger, anger, indignation - of all those who made populism art, false profession and obscene everyday practice. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Yesterday something first happened. Known - unknown boulders reappeared after many months and even raised a communication - invitation to their well-known website, inviting citizens to some kind of anti-concentration. This announcement came down, of course, but the damage was done. I make the Government and Mr Tsipras personally responsible for the security of citizens who will come today and protest. I call on all of us to stand firm and calm, because the more we defend the constitutionally guaranteed right of every citizen to protest peacefully, but we will also condemn unequivocally of violence, pre-conflicts and applause from wherever they come from. As much as I personally believe that Mr Paulakis is the most incompetent and inappropriate Minister of Health who has ever passed from these benches, we will never say 'they did'. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because we're not the same. Because we will not allow democracy to solve problems with yogurts and kicks. The duty of the parties is the creative outsourcing of rage and not the systematic feeding of it, as you have done over the years that you have been in the opposition. Fortunately, democracies have mechanisms of social decompression of popular discontent. Peaceful demonstrations are such a mechanism. The elections are a different mechanism, and as much as you tremble them, they will come much earlier than you reason and then the people will give you their answer. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We are now going to the question of development law. Ladies and gentlemen, in our country there is a long-term distorted perception of the 'development' - within introductory terms the word - the role of the state and champion, of course, is today the SYRIZA - ANEL Government and its expression is the law we are discussing today, which, in name, can only be regarded as a developmentist. For no law, even the best law, can bring growth when the wider business environment is so hostile to investment. You know, ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA and ANEL, development is not ordered or legislated. The conditions that feed it require a lot of trouble to thrive. The role of the State is to ensure an appropriate environment for attracting investment. It is to ensure the efficient functioning of the market by strengthening competition, through its proper supervisory role and by removing obstacles, bureaucracy. The performance of States in these areas is being measured. [[Z' Vice-President of Parliament Ms GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS]] Today, Minister, our country is sixty in the world and last of all the OECD countries in the DOING BUSINESS entrepreneurial environment index of the World Bank and, of course, it has lost positions in the past year. I submit the relevant document. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] No law alone can correct this sad reality. Very few investments will be made in an environment of low competitiveness and in a hostile business environment. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very often discussing young entrepreneurs, young scientists, potential investors, members of the start-up community. In my previous professional life, before I entered politics, I was systematically involved in financing new small and medium-sized enterprises. So I honestly tell you that no one, but nobody told me about the development law. None of the Startups community is asking for a grant, Minister. On the contrary, do you know what they're looking for? Everyone is asking whether not low, at least stable taxation, yes, request reduced employers' contributions, at least for the first years of operation of the company, seek access to liquidity, the removal of capital controls, a stable environment, rapid licensing, fair competition. They ask, in other words, that the anti-incidents that undermine entrepreneurship be lifted. They again ask for the banking system to function satisfactorily in order to be able to buy raw materials, to be able to obtain loans from banks, working capital, without placing a mortgage on all their assets. They ask for the credibility of Greece to be restored so that they are not treated as a second class of customers or as a second class of suppliers. Because that is the reality experienced by any new businessman today attempts to have business dealings with abroad. In simple terms, what all of them want? They're not asking for a development law like what you brought in. Reforms also call for the fundamental right to exercise their constitutionally guaranteed right to business action without impediment. They all want to take the risk that every business initiative involves, but they do not want to feel that their chances of success have been undermined by a state and a party nomenclaura facing them as enemies. This is what entrepreneurs, especially young entrepreneurs, young businesses, which are supposed to be cutting off, not some rational subsidies from here and there, which are in no way capable of balancing the risk and the costs that the businessman is currently in our country. Let us be in this Chamber once sincere. Development laws have not succeeded in the past. The only thing they finally managed - with some exceptions always, of course - was to produce a state-owned model of low-competitive capitalism. There have often been - not always, but often - a 'cushion' to fall into low-performance soft businesses. Unfortunately, with the development laws, we have been struggling with state dependence, and we have been slumbing the country's living productive forces in this way. Unfortunately, this concept, which in practice proved to be bankrupt, is now being seen by the government as a so-called catalyst of development. You do not understand that growth is not just a matter of legislation and can only be achieved in a positive business environment. You do not understand that the government's role is precisely to ensure this positive business environment. You don't understand all of this, obviously because it's contrary to your own DNA, which remains deeply staggered. You are entrepreneurship, and you certainly do not understand the functioning of the market, because if you really understood how the market works, how the real economy works, then even today with sufficient delay and a certain amount of self-criticism you would have done, Minister, in a number of assumptions. Admission first: Because of the seven-month delay in completing the evaluation, of course the account went up a lot. The financial measures will reach a total of EUR 9 billion and this will be without any measures being imposed by the cutter. As a result, of course, of your unreliability, a permanent - take care - of the automatic and horizontal budgetary adjustment mechanism has been imposed on the country. It is permanent, since its operation will be extended beyond the end of the programme. It is automatic because its activation does not impose the consent of the Greek Parliament and of the horizontal, of course, since it does not exclude any wages or pensions. Of course, new painful and degrading obligations, such as the Overseas of Privatizations, have been imposed, including almost all the property of the country for ninety years, i.e. until 2115. I would also remind you that all this was not included in the third memorandum. They came out because of your unreliability that led our creditors to excessive requirements, which you naturally met at high speed. Admission second: You have chosen the wrong mixture of fiscal policy. When will you finally confess? When, at last, will you recognize that the additional direct taxes - which I dare say you have done with great joy, almost enthusiasm - are those of your left-wing ideal? It is obsessed with maintaining state spending on their existing levels, but at the expense of citizens, the real economy and real development at the end of the day. In fact, while people's burden-sharing capacity has long been exhausted, as is evidenced by the increase in dues - take note - by EUR 4 billion in the first few months of 2016, you come and load them with additional and unbearable burdens. Of course, Mr. Minister - oh of the miracle! - overtaxation already has its first negative effects. Tax evasion is wrathful. There is no need for anyone to be an expert on the market to understand it. Of course, the impact on revenues will be visible very soon, which the Governor of the Bank of Greece also imply, considering that the tax policy mix you recommended is likely not to achieve the budgetary targets in the end. Of course, the third assumption - which I hope you will at some point to make - is that Greece will only achieve growth by reopening the real economy, the real functioning of the market and, of course, the restoration of liquidity. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the President of the New Republic hits the warning bell.]] First of all, since we are talking about liquidity, with your policy, on your own days the government's dues to private individuals have increased by 75%. They went to 6.7 billion euros. But, so will growth, with the state owe everyone, with a state that thus removes all liquidity from the real economy, with new taxes? So if you wanted to deepen the recession, what more would you do in relation to what you've already legislated? Of course, from the 'poured' subspecies that we will receive, only EUR 1.8 billion will go to cover late payment. When will the remaining EUR 4.9 billion come, Minister? You are even coming today, as analysed by our rapporteurs and by Mrs Asimakopoulou, to recommend a law that will in practice contribute to the real economy of EUR 480 million for the next - look at - five years! That's the truth! The various numbers, which are very easy to emit, together arbitrary resources from the NSRP, tax incentives and other imaginary figures. Reality is very simple. The law you are introducing today is a'multiple', a 'licensed shirt'. You have here the nerve to come and present this anemic, ragged law as a development catalyst! You tell us that by your law you will create sixteen thousand jobs in the next five years. Really? In a country with an unemployment of more than a million, two hundred thousand, in a country which should be aimed at creating a hundred and twenty thousand jobs a year, is that the aim of the government? Does she put the cubit so low? You tell us that 500 million will be disbursed for the next five years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u132	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u133	Please, my colleague, be quiet and listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u134	Please don't interrupt. Please respect the speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u135	You tell us that nearly 500 million will be disbursed over the next five years, when the country needs 100 billion in total private investment to get through. Beware of the irony: on the same day that development law is being discussed, and will be voted on tomorrow, the Association of Greek Banks, Mr Minister, sends a letter to the relevant ministers - Mr Tsakalotos, I do not know if he sent it to you - which shows the risk of losing one and a half million euros in the real estate market because of the increase in taxation on real estate companies. To get what? Take 20 million? Is this the way you understand growth? Of course, the law you bring not only lacks resources and targeting, but also constitutes a return to partyism and bureaucracy. I think that this law for you is ultimately a very convenient alibi: since we have a 'development law', what can we do with the next reforms? We have fulfilled our debt to the real economy! In other words, he is the mirror of your worldview of how you understand the functioning of the market and the economy in general. Ladies and gentlemen, beyond the criticism we make in the government, we are taking a step forward, as a responsible political force that we are, the basic features of our own alternative proposal for the future of the Greek economy. We have said many times that in order to achieve a high growth rate we need a comprehensive framework for interventions and reforms, but also a new broad agreement with our creditors. When, ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, from this step forward, I spoke for the first time about the need to adjust the primary surplus targets from 3.5% to 2%, I collected your irony. I doubt many of you understood exactly what I was saying. But two days ago the Governor of the Bank of Greece with his article at the "FINANCIAL TIMES" said exactly the same things. The question here is simple: which government has the credibility of negotiating this new major agreement that our country needs with our creditors? A government that really believes in reforms and has the operational capacity to implement them or a government which simply considers that the reforms are a Memorandum and does everything it can in practice to undermine them? A government committed to an agreement of truth with the citizens or a government that today still presents a virtual reality of the real economy, distorting the truth and denying, and even today, its responsibilities for its tragic choices. The revolts about the very large investment that is to be made at the old airport of the Greek island show the clear contradictions of this heirous government structure. The investment, ladies and gentlemen, in Greek could really be a point of reference for Greece that changes, for Greece coming out of the crisis, for Greece, which can attract Greek and foreign capital. This is an investment that can change the image of the coastal front, it can bring significant resources to the Greek State and, of course, it can create tens of thousands of new jobs. So it was designed and so attempted to be implemented by our own government. However, this investment itself, instead of being embraced with individual reservations, may be, rather than being hugged as necessary for the economy as a whole, fought rabies by the forces of populism in Greece. Mr. Tsipras as Chief of Anti-Population said that if the citizens want to take advantage of the Greek, they would vote for the former Prime Minister, Mr. Samaras. That's what Mr. Tsipras said in an election. That's how big his hypocrisy was! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Of course the top SYRIZA officials described the agreement as an economic scandal. Mr Spirtzis himself - then even the President of the TEI - and today the co-rapporteur said that investment is a gift, that 228% is sold less than its value. Mr Spirtz then spoke of great political responsibilities. Why don't you do a committee of inquiry on the Greek if you think there were really great political responsibilities? The forces of populism, after prudence and extremism in public dialogue, confusing and mobilising mobilisations, have actually blocked any progress in the implementation of this project. You haven't done anything for seventeen months. Under normal conditions, the first money from the Greek should have already entered the public funds and the first jobs should have been created. What did you do? Under the suffocating pressure of creditors and in order to collect the last instalment, you have signed an understanding agreement - which is why - a memorandum of understanding. So I ask directly this: What made you change your mind? Do you want this or don't you want this investment? I really am wondering - not just myself, but I imagine all the citizens who are listening to us - something that concerns Mr Spirtzis, who, you know, is also the Minister responsible for land use issues and will need his active involvement in implementing this investment: will it proceed to these necessary procedures when he thinks it will not be done? I imagine the answer is he's probably going to cry. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But this does not cancel the great reality that your government is like Janus. One side of your face swears in the Memorandum of Mutation and votes without reservation as our creditors suggest and of course the other side systematically undermines all reforms that conflict with its left geneprint. I sum up, ladies and gentlemen. The law that today comes to the vote in Parliament will have no impact on growth. It comes in an environment of recession, a tragic lack of liquidity, a regression, tax extermination, an environment that your own government has caused. And if this environment is not corrected as a whole, growth will not be seen by the country and the cycle of bankruptcy will not be broken. Like Sisyofos Greek citizens will be called upon to push the rock of austerity into the globe of the Memorandum of Greece. Except, unlike the mythical hero, their strengths are not endless. So listen to it well, ladies and gentlemen of the government majority. Your failure is not a failure of the country. Your denial is not a national denial. Your humiliation is not a humiliation of Greece. I want again from this Chamber to send a message of confidence and optimism to the Greek citizens. This is not our country, the Greece of Mr. Tsipras. It is not Greece that deserves permanent supervision, it is not our future on the sidelines of Europe! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We deserve a better tomorrow. With hard work we can achieve it, but united and not divided, optimistic and not humiliated, with real confidence in our country's unstable forces, those that an incompetent and ideological government has attempted to bending, but has finally failed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u136	We continue with the list of speakers. Mr Ursouzidis has the floor from SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Ursouzidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about a bill which the world is waiting for for in connection with the productive effort of the country, those who over the years have suffered the consequences of distorting economic growth that has existed for many decades in our country. The delays in the assessment and control of investment progress have led to investors in an economic weakness. Fifty-six thousand investment projects are known to be committed to approximately 6.5 billion. Why is that so? Will anyone explain? Investors of course know him well the reason and have felt it well in their skin. It was the stage at which they unreservedly accepted the pressures from a regime of lawlessness and unacceptable behaviour of the State against them. The new development law, therefore, had to change before all this had been done and indeed does so, following a mapping of the existing situation, but also the policy of development incentives and the extensive consultation with all the stakeholders who have received from this House, by tabling the really beneficial opinion on their place of view. Commonly accepted the bill with positive comments. After all the above steps in the formulation of the final text, the proposal was formulated on the framework for strengthening private investment to be launched by the country in the next few years to meet the challenges posed by both the international environment and the development of the domestic production system. It is something that is anxiously and hopefully awaits the most productive part of our society, the people who are lagging behind, the people who are ready to take on the part of their responsibility - and indeed the above - in the great effort of the place to get out of the crisis. It is in these people's struggles that the bill is geared to it. The main competitive advantages of the country and, above all, the human potential are exploited. The country has an important capital of highly qualified and certified knowledge, which it has to exploit. Indeed, we are given this possibility through our bill. They are those young people who can lift the burden that they bear and do it silently, under the shadow of the big companies today, without enjoying what they are given. The agri-food sector is the great pillar of the Greek economy, which traditionally belongs to the dynamic sectors. It is also an area in which the bill in question gives great importance, as for tourism, for shipping, for energy and for the chemical industry. With regard to the question of whether investment projects that have already been subject to previous laws are being used, there is indeed an extension for their implementation, that is to say, payment for the first time for these projects is ensured, transparency and control by an objective crisis, which was missing in previous years. We also have the option of reducing the same share to 25%, no pre-authorisation of a bank loan, which nowadays has fewer, is abolished the obligation to cover equity participation. The body may cover its participation with external financing, which is also the case for the first time. There is no need for the pre-authorisation of a bank loan, which only nowadays has the possibility of'special investors'. Employment clauses are being imposed as a key criterion in assessing unemployment and tax exemptions are being introduced so that the aid is not only based on the criterion of expenditure being incurred but on the return on the aid. There's no reason for the investor to hide income. On the other hand, there are preconditions for the continuous development of enterprises, the increase in employment, the inflow of resources into the insurance funds. There are limits on aid, so that aid can be dispersed, that is to say, to favour many, small and medium-sized ones, which has not happened in the past. Suffice it to say that 44% of grants went to 4% of investors. This has to change. In other words, what the place needs is to absorb aid to the many and the medium-sized ones to become a reality. It's true. In other words, this piece of productive Greece that drowned, lost in a regime of opacity, favorableness and factorism in the past few years, is trying to bring up the bill under discussion, these people who feed about twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week, twelve months a year. These people are the ones who turned your back on you and we're not going to spare you. These people belong to that productive power of the country that we need to exploit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u138	Mr Athanasios Papadopoulos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr President. So here, when we finally started talking about the development of this historic country with ancient civilization, about the new historical period, about the conversion of Greece into modern, normal, European country, about the sectors of the economy that Greece has overcome, for the proper use of public wealth, about radical changes in the state, public administration, about the minimisation of imports and the extroversion of our national economy, about jobs, about productive investment, about healthy entrepreneurship, about the holistic reconstruction of Greece after a long decade of decline. The new development law, ladies and gentlemen, with the establishment of a Development Council, with the new institutional framework for private investment aid, opens up the debate on the formulation of the national development plan, the draft reconstruction strategy of Greece, which has already been delivered, for the fair, rapid, balanced, sustainable development of Greece, for the smart development based on knowledge, innovations, creative employment, labour productivity, applied research, technological leadership, sustainability, quality of life. The new development law responds to specific problems of the distorting, irrational capitalist model of development of post-state Greece. Contrary to the sins of the three previous laws, which have been limited to strengthening investor profitability in specific established sectors, it emphasises small and medium-sized innovative outward-looking enterprises and attempts to make use of all the comparative advantages of the country, in particular its exceptionally high quality human resources, young people and young people with high qualifications, who are forced to emigrate or remain unemployed. It premiums their employment, investing in their knowledge, research achievements, lifelong learning, their participation in local spatial patterns, social cooperatives, producer groups, synergies, co-operations, mergers, clusters, networking, smart specialisation. At the same time, it premiums investment in special areas, in desirable sectors of high added value, such as high-quality healthy Greek foods, digital policy technology, information and communication. It does not neglect ship repair, shipping, energy saving, real estate upgrade, processing chain, creation of business centers, etc. Thus, despite the overcompensations of the previous period, the new development law, providing modern investment incentives and, above all, a stable tax regime and strong tax exemptions that are evolving into sources of additional tax and insurance revenues, is a crucial tool for achieving the development planning. The new development law works in coordination with the new financial instruments achieved following the first evaluation of the new agreement. Everyone appreciates that, after the loss of 25% of gross national product, Greece needs an investment shock of 80 to 100 billion euros. This will also contribute to the creation of new instruments, such as the Development Bank, the National Entrepreneurship and Development Fund, with resources from the NSRF and the European Investment Bank, the Special Purpose Banks, and even new types of banking initiatives, such as the Bank of Poverty for projects of young scientists - researchers who have no opportunity to have own funds. The last issue is the political environment of development effort. It is certain that the Greek people in their vast majority but also the business world, the major investors in Greece and abroad, want political stability and implementation of the third convention. Few people share the New Democracy's request for elections. They must have a particular perception of humor the organizers of the “Resign” gathering, at the same time as the New Democracy cries “go away”. On the other hand, the government issue of political stability, which puts PASOK, Potami, the Central Union, in order to obtain serious content, requires a very serious debate on what reforms the country needs, what structural changes the country needs, what areas, exactly how they will be, what strata will benefit, what European structure, with which Europe we are going, with what alliances, what we are proposing for European economic governance, on labour rights, on industrial relations, on the new social and political contract. Also, what will change in the Greek Constitution, what will be the new self-government landscape, the new electoral law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u140	Mr. Papadopoulos, let's shorten up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u141	I'm closing, Mr. President. After all, this government, with its clear European orientation, has no right to resign. It must restrain, restore all its creativity to the problems of everyday life, gain confidence, because it is the government of Greece that changes page that closes the cycle of uncertainty, which prepares important reforms in the primary health system, mental health, social welfare, emergency care...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u142	Mr. Papadopoulos, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u143	...in public administration, in the tax system, he prepares the transition to the new virtuous age for the country and the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u144	Thank you. Mr Vorides has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there are two ways of approaching this debate. The first way is to try to focus on the law's intervention, what the Minister is trying to defend today. I think my fellow Members have spoken enough, but you will allow me to tell you that the main point in this debate - because it ends very quickly, with an argument that is almost catalytic and I hear it mainly from you - is that we need 100 billion in investments. Here we are talking about zero in 2016, about 26 million in 2017 and about a total intervention of 480-490 million euros over six years. We could then close the debate very quickly on the shadows. It doesn't matter. It is an insignificant intervention in the face of what the country demands. But there is also a second way of approaching it. And here's an interest in hearing what the government has to say, because it's obviously not interesting to tell us what it's going to do with this little money. I repeat, this law already has many problems, and this has been pointed out. I won't say the same arguments. I will not say for the seven years, I will not say about bureaucracy, I will not say about the evaluation committee. This has been said. But, is there really a development plan of interest to anyone? What is it? What is the government's development plan? The capitalist development of the country, colleagues of SYRIZA? Is that it? Because all the financial instruments to which you refer refer refer refer refer to this. Is that it? Be careful, Minister, now that I have your attention, I see that I have said the magic word - you have to answer that. Is there scope for development in a country where the government alone had its main rail network closed for months? Is there any room for growth in a country where its ports are now closed and you are not interfering with it? I beg your pardon, ladies and gentlemen, we are now sitting here talking about Mr Stathakis' 480 million over five years, while companies are closing down because they cannot supply because the main axes and basic infrastructure are not working. Are we talking about growth in a country where its judges have not been working for six months and the government is doing nothing? The lawyers have been on abstention for six months and you've been looking at them? You don't have dialogue, you don't have solutions, you don't interfere, do nothing? Are we talking about growth in a country that has these tax rates? Are we talking about attracting investments? The 100 billion? Because that should be Mr Stathakis' target, not to talk about what we will do the 27 million in 2017. To discuss how a more general environment is formed which is attractive. What are your interventions in bureaucracy? In your last speech, ladies and gentlemen, you voted - and you are coming to tell me how small and medium-sized enterprises and cooperatives will develop, and I do not know what else you have in mind, and the banks, anyway - you have abolished the uses of land. You returned the uses of land to the corrupted '81 regime. We have founded to achieve this in a balance and you come without cause and you are abolishing it. Are you going to develop five times the insurance contributions to the freelance professionals? This is how growth will come? With these tax rates? Excuse me, will you develop once there is no elementary intervention to remove the capital controls? You are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about political stability. Of course, it is a value for political stability. It is, of course, worthwhile for investors too, political stability, as long as there is a production of policy that leads us somewhere. If there is a policy production that leads to the very opposite result, I beg your pardon, but that is absolutely deadlock. Minister, there are about three models to discuss how an economy will develop. One is Soviet. You're not defending it. You've abandoned it. You were thinking about it when you were younger. This time is over. It's good for her. Let's go to the next one. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Now I don't know if that's true. Mr Famello, here, perhaps something in him still eats him, but I hope that we will find them on the road. Secondly, it is the well-known social democrat. What's that? In times of crisis, we use a forward-looking, aggressive, large public investment program to rekindle the economy. Do you have one? You don't have one! Since you don't have a public investment programme like that, because you don't have any money. Third, that's what you take down. The model of private investment, the attraction of money, capitalist development, partners. Is that right? It's this model. We don't have any more. These three are. Can you tell me which of the three you're joining? Because that is the problem, Mr Papadopoulos, the request. The fact that you do not have a development plan, the fact that you are acknowledging and undermining the prospects for the private economy, makes it imperative, timely and necessary, and "Go away" and "Resign".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u146	The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Famelos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the successful completion of the first assessment creates new data for our country, about political and fiscal stability, about liquidity and financing of the economy and work and, above all, about liberalisation of an important political, social and development potential, new aid data and real products, as well as work. We are actually given the opportunity to have a future in the country, to put an end to recession, unemployment, poverty and austerity. Ladies and gentlemen, we are fully aware of the difficulty and the agreement, both for the economy and for society, and of the compromise we have made to save the country. Obviously, we have doubts about many elements of this programme. But we're improving it. We improve it as much as we can within the general range that previous governments have created in the country along with lenders. We are improving it so that in the Greek, for example, we can gain in our own negotiation EUR 1.5 billion public investment that you did not claim, 25% reduction in the coverage rate that you did not claim, access to the sea and the urban fabric that you did not claim, and, of course, also in terms of the money that you received from the public sector, but also in terms of public investment in this magnification, in this difficult agreement with the low price. But this is not our programme. It is the price that the country has been paying for many years of bad governance, bad governments that have not served the interests of the country, the governments of the New Democracy and the PASOK. And we in this blackmail, the suffocation they have created, and the lenders have chosen a route of salvation. And to tell the truth, no other proposal has been put forward. "Show all" of Mr. Mitsotakis at the New York Times we know it. We know the moral choice of the drachma as well. Another proposal, honest, national salvages, social savings has not been tabled. And we are giving the most difficult battle and we have managed to implement the most difficult negotiation for a country that was promised by New Democracy and the PASOK and after the evaluation every day gains levels of self-reliance, degrees of freedom and practically comes out of the mechanical support machine you condemned. So the path to growth opens. A question was raised by Mr Voridis earlier. What development are we talking about? Does he have a neutral mark? So let me tell you what development we are not talking about. We are not talking about the development of speculative and native funds, of your friends, who have been on the stock market for so many years. We are not talking about Panama Papers and offshore companies of your Prime Minister's advisers. We are not talking about national contractors. We're not talking about the cementtown you made or the dumps you filled Greece. We are not talking about the development of a few. We are not talking about the development that Mr Mitsotakis previously accepted here that he was also a state-runer, but was aimed only at reducing the cost of labour, because this is your neoliberalism. We are not talking about either Bulgarian wages, which you want, or a mafia environment that you have created in Greece. This is your development. We are giving it to Mr Voridis because he was also asking everyone - if you would like - the colleagues. We are talking about another development. We are talking about fair growth, which not only preserves jobs, but also strengthens work and as a quantity, but also of quality, as a means of participating in growth, in the product, in the decision on better pay, but also in the social benefit, because it deals with real product and not with turning the money into the banks. It deals with public goods and the public interest, because so - if you like - it sees what redistribution means and puts the environment, our country's resources, the cyclical economy and the added value that the extroverted economy gives us. How's that gonna happen? You're only funding me? No, of course not. This is the core of enrichment that you created as a model. It is not only the financing of an element of economic development. First of all, you underestimated the great reformist power that the public sector had, because you did not want a functional, efficient, smart and reliable state, such a state that controls, installs and defends equality. Because our government has also been asked for this, we have quadrupled the controls on the control mechanisms. We have increased the revenue from tax evasion by 67%. This also applies to the CCIMP, to the great property and to customs controls. In fact, we tripled the proceeds from the smuggling of tobacco. As far as the Lagard list is concerned, because it came as a topic here by the Chief of Staff, in our government in 2015, the revenues from the Lagard list in comparison to 2014 were sevenfold. In fact, it was 174 million euros compared with 23.4 million in 2014. This means a reliable state with control mechanisms. Of course, we are also interested in public investment, because they also feed this work and the economy. The thousands of two hundred jobs that were created in Thessaloniki in 2016 by the metro of Thessaloniki are not negligible, neither in terms of the work of a thousand two hundred families nor in terms of the economy of the city and the acceleration of a project that creates a better environment in cities, but also in terms of better trading conditions. This means, for us, making use of the arm of public investment. Because that's how we achieve very important, if you want, profits. Anyone who creates the false contrast in the private sector to the public sector only does so, ladies and gentlemen, to hide the rumours he has made for years in the public sector, to get forgiveness, to sell the public sector out to the 'family' contractors and best-beings. This is what New Democracy and PASOK did and let private economy fans play it. The development plan, however, is not just a debate on Greece. Clearly, it is also a matter of Europe's level. Because we at the level of Europe are having the debate. We don't have the provincialism of the New Democracy that only deals with its chair. He knows the route only House - Maximos - Kolonaki, because that's what it's been doing for so many years. Because that is where they grew grandfather to grandparent families of politicians I am rightfully inherited to take the seat of the MP. We are talking in Europe in favour of employment policies, in favour of anthropocentric policies based on Europe's cultural ideals of justice, equality and solidarity, which are now taking another meaning in the context of global division of labour and international competition. Of course, we are against Europe that has so far been concerned only with the austerity, the accounting translation of human life, which was the most serious mistake made by the political leadership of Europe. You'll tell me some letters. It is true that both the new Republic and the PASOK have been tall. Tall letters for the New Democracy, which is all it does is to confuse with Mr Weber's resurrected speech in the European People's Party and the tremendously extreme right parties in Eastern Europe, of course entirely related to Mr Georgiadis. We understand that in the span of New Democracy, the twin Samaras - Georgiadis has won by state any liberal concept. At the same time, however, with the project Europe's political plan, we are also discussing a social project in Greece, which has as its priority the fight against undeclared work, the strengthening of labour rights, the introduction of social solidarity incomes, including rent subsidies and school meals, and, of course, the continuation of the humanitarian crisis programme and its connection to the social level with recruitments in health and education, because for us the real cut, which we are implementing, is the cut-off of poverty, to which you condemned the Greek people. At the same time, with democratic areas both in the Constitution and in the electoral law, which must overcome the exclusion of the Greeks from the decisions, and this concerns both the charter of self-government and the responsibilities at all levels of the administrative organisation of the state. All of this is a project of another Greece, which will now respect the Constitution and Parliament and will not discover parliamentary aberrations, just to cover Mr Mitsotakis' leaving Parliament in a debate on where he was going, in a debate he provoked, but which he rather had to hide a great deal about the relationship between the political system and the outside companies. For that is what Mr Mitsotakis' letter which he tabled yesterday to the House hides. Because if they respected the Constitution and Parliament would not leave Article 14 of the Constitution, which imposed control and licensing of television frequencies over the years at the expense of the public interest, nor would they be able to make an amendment at midnight to commemorate those who provided funding to their parties. But the sweater's out now. The European Commission has raised a question of not recognising the limitation of the parties' debts to the banks and of the remembrance of those who gave these loans. But in Greece, we have all set up a committee of inquiry together to reconvene this issue. That is how one respects Parliament and democracy. Of course, the issue of growth raises important questions about funding and cash flows. That is why we have opened up all the available sources: the debate on the Development Bank following the bill and on the management of the important banking sector, which is, of course, stable after the recapitalisation we have made at low cost, but which will be revived by quantitative relaxation and water supply in the European Central Bank and, of course, the Junker programme, with the investment programme which we have in our own government, provides for ECU 6 billion in order to feed and complete all the projects that have European cofinancing. We arrive at the NSRF because there have been questions about the NSRF. Who are you talking about, ladies and gentlemen? The one you dynamite? For what you have put up with your bets - even Mrs Spyraki has asked the European Parliament - that we will not succeed? What you guys were planning on, and you said we wouldn't make it up to 4.5 billion dollars? And we overcompensated EUR 500 million of the plan that you had done, which you had put as a brake, as a mine for Greece. Is that what you're talking about? Where did we exaggerate in 2015 and started first in 2016? And are you asking us what we were doing in 2016, where we first started a programme, in which we must confess that serious bureaucratic problems have arisen? The programme, for example, of children's stations is being cancerd because your own ministers signed ministerial decisions, it was broken up into so many subsets, it was so bureaucratic, it was cut off half the resources to challenge the right of our own governments to have social provision for children's stations. You're asking what happened to what you drugged? It's going very well! It has a great deal of promotion, a great deal of commitment, even the pre-financing that we have gained for the country. For we have negotiated the pre-financing of the NSRF. In fact, so that there is no problem with the young scientists, on the newly-born startups, because he was wondering the Chief of Officerial Opposition, to inform and tell him - because he probably didn't know - that we created a confidence-driven account so that we don't need an advance on the NSRF for young scientists, so that no one depends on banks and major interest rates. That is why there is increased interest by young scientists and by new businesses for the ESRB, and that is a substance measure. This is how we create a favourable investment environment for young entrepreneurship, for new businesses, for innovation. This is how we strengthen liquidity in the real economy, which concerns the worker and the scientist. If Mr. Mitsotakis doesn't know, let him know how the newborn startups are being strengthened. In this context, therefore, the new developmenter, which was designed on the basis of the conclusions of the past, has been given extensive consultation and using international practices. This was reflected in the committees. All the producers' representatives have said so. But what is the current development situation? I think I have to table the tables, because you have often wondered, ladies and gentlemen. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above tables, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The 2004 law has four thousand nine hundred and ninety - five designs in the air with 4,370,000,000 debts. The 2011 Act, Law No.3908 has a thousand seventy-seven designs in the air, frozen, with a debt of 2 billion. The total is six thousand two hundred seventy-two projects, 6,356,000 euros frozen two years before SYRIZA, the Independent Greeks and the Efologist Greens take over the government. Was that your love for the private economy? By freezing all the projects, promising to be financed, while in the committees it was heard that some projects were receiving 100% pre-financing, why did they have a way? This is your love for the private economy! However, there was a great problem with regard to the lack of strategy, low technology content, low knowledge intensity - and my colleagues have identified all this - dismantling of primary, secondary and production lines with low international positions, with low wages and low competitiveness, with very many inequalities. For example, only 4% of projects received 45% of investments, while one job reached the last development project costing 976,000 euros. You chose to stay out of the economy and the resources, to leave offshore, to yachts and villas. You have chosen to be out of knowledge, apart from work, and of course, with too much corruption in services. The causes of failure are obvious. We have to say this: The real enemy of the private economy and labour was the bipartisanism of the New Democracy and PASOK, which also succumbed to development law - and admitted it to Mr Mitsotakis here earlier - for the delusions they had in the development law and for the fact that they were unable to operate for the benefit of the private economy and, more generally, the economy and labour. Of course, Mr Mitsotakis was unable to hide his extreme neoliberal ideal for cheap work and redundancies. It wants a smaller state, but larger grants. Unbelievable bipolarism! A small state with no more subsidies! Where? New loans! We heard about the game. That's how they want Greece to work. On the other hand, what do they want? How can the high priest of redundancies cry about unemployment? A doctor should probably explain to us, because he is overcoming the sphere of politics, the curious bipolarism that now exists in opposition. Is it possible to discuss our country with such false dilemmas? The development strategy - let me, Mr President - must be consistent with the country's identity, compatible with global competition, with real primary and secondary products, with priority in the agri-food sector and new technologies, so that we have re-industrialisation, domestic added value and extroversion, that we have an export orientation based on innovation and technology, our minds, Greek minds not to go abroad. A shift in knowledge, a knowledge-based economy now employs the European environment and we have forgotten it, with jobs for qualified scientific resources, with an increase in the level of pay. Because today 32 000 direct jobs are being mobilised, but 250,000 jobs are the secondary result, which development law will give the economy, through a leverage immediately of 12 to 15 billion investments, apart from the secondary result. Of course, it is a law for small and medium-sized enterprises, because it is dispersing venture capital, employment and entrepreneurship. But it creates at the same time networking, mergers and economies of scale, both with clubs and with social entrepreneurship. It strengthens decentralisation in practice by combining GDP per capita with subsidies, strengthening the agri-food sector, which is all over the region of strongness, particularly in islands with refugees and border regions. This is the essence of development, because so you create confidence in social capital, you strengthen collective schemes and aids and the environment economy, practically using resources through a circular system without consumption of the real stock of the country, with a reduction in the ecological footprint and a reduction in the energy footprint. In this development law, we invest in efficiency. That is why we are asking for a tax exemption. We don't give money in front of each other to eat 'the leftovers'. That's different. That's the tax incentive we give. Of course, we're unleashing plans that have been frozen by the previous ones. Those of us are now enemies and are being extradited. How? Giving 2.5 billion from the new law for what you froze and only 1.1 billion to the new ones? That's actually what's going on. Is that how we publish? You are not saying again that they found a board of salvation with the Government of Social Rescue, because otherwise they would have the fate of the Anti-Population: they would always be 'outside'. There you condemned the private economy. At the same time, of course, we combine evaluators, but also a secondary committee within the service. Not an evaluator. Secondary committee, which is also multi-parametric. It includes both private and public space and many services to evaluate the assessor and the outcome, by simplifying procedures, without bureaucracy and by public disclosure of the result. He's a measured developmentist. It doesn't have too many resources. But why? Why doesn't the country have any resources? Read Mr. Samaras at the REAL NEWS last Sunday. Quite simply because the previous governments have created a suffocating environment. Mr Hardouvelis also said it last week. Former Minister of Finance said that we will have no wages in February 2015 and you ask why the Treasury does not have any funds? You billed the country. You've frozen 6,500 investment projects, and now you're denounced why we don't move on to the economy. We're moving on. You have also finished the private economy and the social state and workers. But we are not irresponsible. We support the economy, but support the work and the functioning of society. Do not wonder where 100 billion euros will be found - because so much is the damage you caused to the economy -. Think: Reduce GDP by 25% for 2015. That's EUR 60 billion. You are responsible - for a year alone - for the country lost EUR 60 billion. Put all the previous ones in, here's the 100 billion euros. You need to find the solution for the damage you've done in the country. But we will find it, because we will not let you create any worse problems for the country. Of course you do not vote for the developmentist because the resources you have thrown away from the country are missing, dismantling the economy to various offshore advisers of your Panama Papers. But you left us in anguish! We waited for the committees a week to hear what position you have on development law. Now, contrary to all social function and producers, you are voting 'in favour'. You are consistent with the slogan of the day. You've resigned. You've resigned from the House. You're leaving the offshore conversation. It's what they say: Rabbit the wing he cut, evil of his head. You left when the real questions about offshore and the relationship of political money were asked. Unlike the market, unlike the society that wants to work, you are now voting 'in' for a development that you have dynamised and thrown everything into micro-policy and the 'cassette movement'. You have resigned, but we call on you to return to the House because the country needs a serious opposition, and it does not need an Opposition of micropolitical and television stations only, because you probably have a better hospitality on television windows than you do in this House, and that is why you are not here all the time. As for the gathering, which the Chairman of the Officer's Representation came today to advertise it and the representative of the Democratic Partnership, you also created a fantastic enemy to create results. Don't worry. We took the bars out of the House. We have safeguarded the right of citizens to fight, to move. We will safeguard the Greeks' right to freedom of expression. You're the one who sadly put bars everywhere and bars everywhere. That was your policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u148	Mr. Femmelle, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u149	I'm hanging up, Mr. President. But you are not allowed to put your own dead ends in the country...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u150	Then open the Attica Hero.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u151	You are not allowed to load the deadlock created by dominance in the country...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u152	Open the Attica Herod and then come and talk!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u153	At last, you're ashamed!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u154	Mrs Vultesis, you are not allowed to put the deadlocks created by Mr Georgiadis' domination in your party.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u155	Mr. Famelle, do not refer personally to MPs. Finish it, please. You've reached twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u156	You're right, Mr. President. Thank you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You're investing in destruction to hide your nakedness. You don't read the laws. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative came here and caused us because there is no tax exemption on large investment. Let's read the law! There is a possibility of tax exemption. For Christ's sake! Read the laws before you come and judge them. We know that you have taken a piece of paper that you are against and come from Riley, but read the laws a little, please very much! You accepted the debate on the increased rates of taxation in the summer and the tax bill that we lowered the rate to 23% you did not vote on. That's another bipolarism. You blame us for a tax raid, for reducing the tax rate on households. Please, you have built a structure just to get back to your chairs, but playing with the country's possible failure. You've activated all systems of disinformation and division. You played your change in the first batch and you lost. But the truth is not hidden. You are committed to neoliberal obsessions and powerful dependencies. But the will of the country to liberate from your middle ages is stronger. It requires another political, social and economic model, it requires conflict with the old corrupt system that you represent, and this mandate is taken over by us and we will respect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr. Femello. The speech is given by the Secretary General of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Dimitris Koutsoubas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u158	Ladies and gentlemen, it is tragic to think about what the real jungle in the labour market has shaped the legislative interventions of the governments of capital over the whole period, from the beginning of the economic crisis to today, what is the barbaric legal framework in which the labour market is hitting and actually unravelling at workplaces and branches, by imposing even worse conditions. This already barbaric framework is being called upon today by the SYRIZA - ANEL, of course, demanding business groups, to make it even worse, serving the same as the previous ones, the strategic goal of recovering their profits. While its act states a deep anti-government direction, the government resorts to the propaganda of the red lines, when it is now revealed that they have never existed as lines of defence for the people's interests. The red line is a lot worn on this government, especially, except it's impossible to hide its nakedness. The people are well aware of how the government defended people's income, pensions, first residence. Ladies and gentlemen, along with the implementation of the anti-grassroots measures already decided, the next measures for the second assessment are quickly being prepared. The next anti-grass-bridge for the completion of the first and for the formal initiation of the second evaluation of the memorandum is now at the heart of consultation with the quartet. In this context, the next package with the new anti-grassroots measures includes the reform of PPC's tariffs, for large industrial consumers, a matter which is constantly putting the table and the BSE side, with a view to reducing the so-called energy costs of industries. Indicate outstandings in the insurance, without further clarification, while the equivalent measures on government special wages and the acceleration of liberalisation and privatization in sectors of the economy are also found at the anti-grass table. At the same time in the scalp and under discussion with the imperialist organisations is the project for so-called productive reconstruction, which will in turn be the bosulla to stimulate the competitiveness of domestic capital, focusing on new state interventions for investment and strengthening strong economic and production groups and sectors, with a competitive advantage. Of course, this is also linked to the implementation of anti-grassroots measures already adopted, but it requires new regulations. For the Government, the real red line is one and is engraved in the interests of capital, to see, of course, only the profits of the government. His needs dictate how many and what measures will be taken. They submit this or the other attitude of the government, of course, in the context of negotiation and with lenders. Given the continuing recession in Greece, the difficulty of the European Union going to a dynamic growth rate and the exacerbation of all conflicts, the course of anti-popular escalation is predetermined. The opening of workers in a few months confirms this, as does the government's admission that everything is open to the table. After all, domestic capital has never concealed that the recovery of its profitability, in addition to the brave support of the state koruna, as is apparent from the development law, requires cheaper labour power, a squash of labour relations and a reduction of any rights left. Red lines, based on its interests, can and should only be drawn up by the people themselves, who are the only one who can defend them effectively. Ladies and gentlemen, really, what growth will be the one coming? Because there is growth and 'development'. There is growth for the few and for the many. We say that growth for all cannot exist. It is another thing to develop for the worker and the worker and another to help the capitalist, the industrialist and the shipowner. These two are the development law brought by the government. And that explains why you've already taken credit for the Greek Industrial Association. So it explains why the day before yesterday at "POSSIDENIA" in Piraeus took credit for the shipowners and the great interests of the Prime Minister. So it explains why Symble, the well-known "kora" a year ago, does not get together, as you called him. That's why you get 'bravo' from Diaselblum, Vals and others, from everything, that is, the 'brows' that stink both their peoples and the people of Greece, the workers of this country. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, this fair development story is too old. It was also released by the previous governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, with a multitude of titles. Other times they called it "Fighting Greece", "Re-establishment of the State", "success story" and so on. The main core of the account of all these governments is actually the same. Always the people are directly called upon to make sacrifices, with the promise that they will be temporary and will contribute to increasing the profits of monopolistic groups and then increasing the profitability of capital will allegedly ensure the well-being of employees and self-employed in some invisible future. Although fairy tale is an old story, the new account by the current Prime Minister easily takes the first prize, both the sorrow and the political deception. Workers, self-employed and farmers are counting large and bloody, really, losses from the beginning of the capitalist crisis in Greece. The average employee, before taxation of his income, has lost over 25% of the purchasing power he had in 2009. The minimum wage has already been paid to EUR 586 mixed and EUR 750 compared to the EUR 751 that was before 2012. One in two Greeks now owes tax. Within this year's first quarter, debts to tax amounted to EUR 4.33 billion. Of the thirty - seven thousand who had joined the setting of the hundred doses, today the fifty - four thousand can no longer respond. Accordingly, the outstanding debts to PPC increased and reached EUR 2.7 billion in the first quarter of 2016. The rule of SYRIZA, not only did not lead to any recovery of any part of the major past losses, but it loaded and loaded our people with unremarkable new burdens. The development of unfair indirect taxes, in particular VAT, the reduction of tax, the maintenance of HIS, the reduction of supplementary pensions, the slaughter of workers' insurance rights is the bitter taste of new left-wing management. At the same time in the crisis we left the country with EUR 140 billion of money, and shipowners pay for annual tariffs at least two days. Overall, that is, monopolistic capital contributes less than 5% to annual tax revenue. The people must therefore judge every new urban, supposedly development policy on the basis of the recovery of their great losses and, above all, the requirement to meet their needs, which are constantly sacrificed on the altar of this gain. The escalation of the anti-grass attack is not an obligation to retreat the government to the external pressures of the troika, as Mr Tsipras has said. In the same direction as the representatives of the European Union, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund, BSE requirements are moving to reduce non-wage costs and to further tax relief for capital profits. This policy, of course, is not a Greek originality. Its main guidelines shall apply in all Member States of the European Union and shall be reflected in the Europe 2020 strategy. They were enthusiastic long before the 2009 international capitalist crisis, and not only do they involve highly indebted states. Over the last fifteen years state aid for private groups' investment has reached EUR 12 billion. The total investment amounted to 32 billion euros. The working class now knows from its own experience who has benefited from this scourge of State aid and the investments of the monopolistic groups. In wanting to highlight the different mark of the new development law, the Government claims that government policy is exploiting human resources, promoting extroversion and innovation, the major technological areas in the country's productive fabric. At the same time, it emphasises that the State must be eminent in the efforts of the private sector. Behind rhetoric - we say - the exploitation of human resources hides the endless chain of measures that make labour power cheaper. Behind the declarations for an effective state, we hide the greatest tax-freeness of our people and the cuts in social policy expenditure to increase the state aid for local groups and safeguard the interests of lenders. The use of innovation to increase productivity is not used in this system, in capitalism, in order to improve the position of workers, but in order to increase the profits of capital. The financing of innovation programmes for small enterprises, on the one hand, concerns a very small, a very small part of all of them and, on the other, assigns to them an important part of the business risk. Any form of profitable patents can be easily purchased, as we all know in this Chamber, but also outside it, by the largest groups. Ladies and gentlemen, it is particularly important today to point out that on the basis of the figures presented by the government itself and the anemic development package, EUR 3.6 billion, its prediction of a rapid and significant recovery is both uncertain and uncertain. A simple look at the slowing down of the international economy, the situation of the Eurozone, the increase in imbalance, the development of the European Union's link and the progress of domestic industrial production is at least enough to doubt it. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government serves the interests of capital at the moment. It promotes tough anti-government measures with much less - it is a fact - popular resistance than a government that would meet, for example, a New Democracy - PASOK. It contributes to the disarmament of the trade union movement, not only by the action of the traditional government union, but also by the disappointment of some parts of workers, who have been lured from SYRIZA's past-period Calla hope trade, now lead to the wrong conclusion that there is no alternative political solution. At the same time, SYRIZA ensures the necessary time for the reform and further shielding of this urban political system, the modernisation of the urban state, in order to make it more effective in promoting its strategy, such as the processes for both the Constitution and for the electoral law and for other similar measures. In the domestic and foreign monopolist groups, it also ensures provocative privileged conditions for the use of state-owned property, such as the sale of Greek, regional airports and so on. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General of the JRC is ringing.]] Finally, it is valuable for the system that SYRIZA's contribution to enclaving the people in the choice of the so-called lesser evil. The Government is constantly calling on our people to compare the blows which it has received from its own policy to those which it has accepted from the government of New Democracy - PASOK. He's trying to obscure the fact that not only did he accept all the anti-Hallian laws and measures of the previous ones, but he continued to load new unspeakable burdens on the people. Therefore, in today's circumstances, SYRIZA is the appropriate urban option for 'broken' work to proceed, as we have repeatedly said from this step, of the levelling-up of popular rights. For all these reasons, fair development within the farm system is rather one of the shortest jokes if it was not tragic. The rich international and Greek experience confirmed that no bourgeois government can humanise capitalism, as this system rotates. Monopoly capitalism will become more barbaric, more reactionary. So the question for workers and poor people is to organise as quickly as possible, as decisively as possible their counter-reaction, but pointing to the real opponent who is praising the way to meet their needs, starting from the demand for the immediate recovery of the major people's losses during the crisis, such as the immediate restoration of the minimum wage at 751 euros. Mass fighters in anti-monopoly, anti-capitalist directions, against the government's pursuits, must be organized and can be organized. The class labor movement must organize its struggle to deal with both this policy and, above all, to address the great aggression of capital. Such is, for example, the forefront of collective agreements and the debate within the movement, within the unions, at the workplaces, on the conditions required for this to be opened. All this isn't one of the usual fronts. They are about the heart of the class race against a single attack, a single aggressive capital policy. It is about defending its working class and standard of living from the robbery, claiming the losses it had and, in particular, the formation of the conditions that will strengthen its negotiating position towards the great capitalist employer. The debate is about how to organize the counter-attack of workers by industry, throughout Greece, how the conditions will be created to enable our people to go through a genuine counter-attack. It requires very much effort and decisive steps both in the level of workers' organization today and in the strengthening of the class line by organisations, at least, in this line. For the working class there's no hope, and when we're still going to a recovery, if she doesn't organize her own race. That is why these struggles will not have a dynamism and perspective if they are not linked to a strong questioning of the sovereignty of capital, if it is not hard and massive, class struggle for growth for the benefit of the people and not, of course, the profitability of the few capitalists. To the extent that this need is realised, and to the extent that the perpetrators, opportunists, opportunists, will also have effective assertive struggles, struggles with radical warfare aims that will highlight the need for decisive conflicts with the policy and power of monopolies, such as the fight to abolish the trade in social security in health, education, etc. Only the organisation of this laboro-people's counter-attack can block and overthrow the new packages of anti-grass measures that come covered with the cloak of a supposedly fair development. In this direction the KIC forces and inside and out of the House will give themselves the best in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u159	Mr. Sifakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u160	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, development law will always be a tool that can help develop the economy. How each development law is shaped, however, clearly demonstrates the political will, the direction of the government that is working on it and proposes it to vote and what economy it wants. The new development law, which we are voting on today, is obviously inextricably linked to the economic situation in which we are in, the fact that we have just managed to stabilise the country, to remove uncertainty, and it has to do with what growth we want, what products we want. Do we want cheap and degraded labour-cooled products and labour-rights products or quality production with strong added value aimed, beyond the domestic market, at demanding and dynamic international markets? Is there also planning in the development law that is being proposed today? Are there priority areas? Will they benefit themselves and the same people who have been benefiting for years or are we going to see growth anyway? This is where the main differences in this law are from the previous ones. With previous laws, 4% of investment projects received 44% of subsidies. Is that what we want? Six companies got 1 billion, fifteen companies got 1.5 billion, ninety-five companies got 3 billion, and in particular inequality in the country. Is that what we want? Two branches received 46% of investment projects and received 72% of subsidies. Is that what we want? Six thousand two hundred investment projects have not been implemented and are pending for 6.4 billion subsidies. Is this the support of the private sector and small and medium-sized enterprises? It did not talk about all this, of course, a moment ago Mr Mitsotakis did not talk about the fact that in the five years of their own government subsidies from 17% of GDP reached 11% of GDP, when the average in Europe is 20%. We are clear that we do not want that. The new development law is cut and stitched for small, very small and small enterprises. It also supports large enterprises up to a limit. The differentiation of support schemes is positive. The tax exemptions match large or relatively large companies that have access to cheap capital abroad. After all, they do not want direct subsidies from the fact that their experience shows great delays in taking on them from the past, but also from the fact that subsidies are not being amortised. Immediate capital subsidies, on the other hand, are absolutely essential to small and medium-sized enterprises. Anyone who has something to do with some kind of investment, that feels very well. Personally I understand it, having integrated and completed the process into three development laws in the past. Without a direct capital subsidy, almost all small and very small enterprises are doomed to be outside any investment activity. The same goes for without an open banking sector. Without access to bank lending - something that is now six years old - one cannot say that a small and medium-sized enterprise can invest. We believe that new conditions in our country's economy will help us to have banks that finance the real economy, small and medium-sized enterprises and healthy entrepreneurship. This need strengthens the important role the development bank can play, and the encouragement of non-systemic banks and funds to move dynamically towards the financing of fixed facilities. The changes that this law brings, and on the subject of the same participation, are in an absolutely positive direction and harmonises the practice of investment in the country with European practice. Furthermore, the commitment to grant subsidies - unlike in the past that the system was perforated, opaque and sometimes proven corrupt - will help not to continue past practices and logic. Projects entered into previous laws are prudently treated, but special attention is needed in its implementation. The definition of the time limit of 50% of the implementation of the investment at the end of the year for non-incorporation into investment that has been approved actually gives rise to questions about the possibility and healthy businesses to avoid catastrophic response, particularly when it is due to the failure to achieve this objective on grounds that do not depend on them. At this point, I would like to give you a real example. An investment took place at the end of 2014 to implement an investment. It reached 30% of the investment by starting immediately, but by consuming the same participation, it cannot proceed, because it needs a contract that the state itself cannot give it, because there is still no procedure. By the autumn, he will be able to give the contract and thus get the bank borrowing. Will it make it to 50% by the end of the year? I propose that a provision should be introduced that enables the company if it fully proves that it is not responsible to the minimum for failing to achieve the 50% target and at the same time has implemented an important part of the project, particularly if it has consumed the same participation in the way it was approved, to be able to obtain an extension corresponding to the time lost under public responsibility or, in any case, a six-month extension. An issue that has been raised in the local communities of Northern Greece and the border counties is the issue of the 30 km zone in which the most beneficial treatment is ensured. Firstly, we have to make it clear that this issue has absolutely nothing to do with the status of regional units as a frontier for granting border allowances, etc., because on purpose some of the opposition are trying to confuse them. These prefectures are mostly agricultural departments with a certain proportion of mild agricultural tourism, but with a small contribution to local GDP. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In the 30 km zone there is therefore a maximum of support. Given that investment in these counties will be made by a vast majority in the agri-food sector - which, anyway, is given the greatest support - in practice all these counties are very supportive. The same applies to information and communication.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u161	Mr. Sifakis, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u162	I shall conclude, Mr President. I believe that, on the basis of this data, it would be better if the whole of these laws were integrated into these additional incentives, due to the simplification and recognition of the need for their special support, since business transfers and business start-ups in neighbouring countries are an intensified fact. This would certainly work reliantly on such a development. Ladies and gentlemen, it is certain that the development law will substantially help with the NSRF and open up financing by banks for small, very small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. It will create sixteen thousand new jobs and contribute to fair growth by disseminating its positive results to a significant number of our fellow citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u163	The Parliamentary spokesman from Potami, Mr Spyridon Dannelis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in a few hours' time we have the 'Resign' rally. But populism is not treated with populism, because monstrous ones follow. Those who stand up for the right speech must also act rationally, neither thyme nor hysterically and micro-groups. This initiative is out of political time and place, which is why, in my humble opinion, it is not useful. Of course the opinion of Mr Philadelphia, who is basically the great sponsor of communication from this rally, is incomprehensible for a favoured democracy where the right of assembly has been solved for decades. With the Minister of Health, Mr. Polakis divides us into cultural chaos. I believe, however, that the propagandas of Ierapetra are incomprehensible, as well as what had been done one day before with Mr Katrugalos in Heraklion, as you consider them incomprehensible. However, you are charging and condemning the persons who have despised the two Ministers and not the act of preconfliction itself, and that is our great difference. And unfortunately even today, you do not seem to have understood the damage you have done with the hugging of the "Indignant" and all forms of violence and lawlessness in the name of sacred anger. So today you are paying the hands of a foolishness that has led you to want to take the power - as it has been - through all populism and all demagogues. But let me turn to today's subject. Ladies and gentlemen, the phrase 'to come' in the six years of the crisis has turned into something like a wish, as a prayer, as a magic spell, which is repeated once again. It is repeated, however, that it should be accompanied by the necessary rituals that would allow and require the vindication of wish, not today, but over the six years. The public debate is being monopolized and exhausted in the sufferings of the memoranda imposed on us by the 'bad' foreigners, in wage cuts, pensions, and heavy taxation. The political system builds up and at the same time bets on maintaining our bankrupt state-run economic model, in the model of protectionism, customer relations, corruption, national economic barons that are rich in an introverted, closed, uncompetitive, horrendous economic environment. It is more than certain that in this environment growth will remain a wish. For the real development to come, there is a need for a total change, for example, to allow for the transition to openness, from a paternalistic, isotope state to a state that promotes innovation, extroversion, creation. Are we opening to innovation? Have we despised Greece's elementary, the notion of entrepreneurship? Have we surpassed as an idea that the national economy is more than the sum of the quasi-corporations and customer relationships that have been protected from the "State-Paterouli" over the years through state-owned entrepreneurship? This transition calls for a national dialogue aimed at an integrated national, strategic development plan, in addition to micro-participatory interests, ideas and acquired assets. As long as this dialogue is deferred or does not precede any institutional development law, as long as we do not respond as a society and as a political system to the question of what country we want, development laws will be coming to reproduce the economic deadlocks that we have experienced so far. A development law is a tool to achieve added economic growth, and not, of course, growth itself, a tool that can help to produce wealth and thus contribute to social well-being. Without a clear hierarchy of projects and actions, however, so that at times the resources available - which are always inadequate for the needs that exist - will result in added growth value, such a law is, unfortunately, a useless tool. Tomorrow the Prime Minister presents your development proposal, which we imagine will also be the basis of the discussion on the sustainable productive model that the country must design and support. But would it not be rational and self-evident to know this proposal before we were called to discuss one of the tools that will support it, such as development law? On the other hand, why don't you do it like Cyprus? It's a small country that passed through the adventure of the memorials and returns to development. It decided strategically to invest in tourism in major infrastructure projects within a ten-year plan to diversify competition. And already the results are impressive, since it records a 22% increase in arrivals for this year and - a 19% increase in revenue, as opposed to us who are simply taking advantage of the present geopolitical situation, but without planning for the future. What do we do in relation to tourism, for example? We refer to CFDs of controversial effectiveness, since tourist businesses are linked to the 2009 spatial plan, which prohibits the introduction of hotels to 85% of the territory, since of course the 2013 spatial plan fell to the Council of State. On the other hand, with regard to small and medium-sized enterprises, the provision through the JRC is positive for small family enterprises. However, she is in danger of being lost, because of the ambiguity of this framework, which does not set targets, so that there is a risk of a wish being left, as has been the case in the past with similar initiatives. Unfortunately, the new development law, which came too late, does not respond to this, does not overthrow the pathogens of the past. He is simply trying to repeat them with much less money for even more potential investors. The new development law in a subsidised, fragmentary and non-visual way again, unfortunately, gives rise to the old and failed recipe for the mere absorption of any funds rather than their strategic exploitation. Today we are discussing the new development law and the draft incorporation of a directive which is coming into discussion in committees on Thursday, tomorrow, the other provisions are attempting to rebuild an enhanced bureaucratic mechanism for managing the resources of the ESDP. Although it is in direct relevance to today's draft law, it comes as a different separate bill. It looks like the developmentist, we are talking today, ashes in the eyes, while on the back door you insist on the well-known destructive recipe for more state, more heads, new status benefits. Do we really think there will be more red tape and more structures? Is this why you are disseminating the NRP staff not one per Ministry, but about one per General Secretariat and where the general secretaries have already been designated as new intermediaries and when this is not enough, the responsibilities are divided even further by new tasks that are invented, such as pre-assessment? Why do you insist that you do not make rational use of European resources, taking the wisdom of the past, as other European countries have done, so that projects and actions can be effectively structured together so that they can create added growth value? That is the point, and that was philosophy always, European philosophy. Why are we insisting on absorption instead of the use of European funds, which even in the issue of absorption, as the very low rates for the current programming period show, and even just before the mid-term evaluation, which will begin to take place in a few months and will end in the first few months of next year, the evaluation of the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework? Today in the most critical and problematic period for the country, and while European resources are the only sure resources for any investments and the promotion of actions and projects that it needs as much as the country ever, it seems that we have not taken our conclusions, we have not taken our lessons from what we have done so far in the past. The organisational model you are promoting is a failed and cost-effective structure, only useful to the established interests, for what we are used to, for the convenience that we have experienced in the past, but not for today and for the country. Furthermore, it is in a permanent lack of understanding and a disquiet about entrepreneurship, international investment, privatization. You claim that you do not believe in any reform of what you themselves are voting on. So, of course, we will not have any effectiveness. We have also seen it in previous years. The amateur and inadequacies lead to tax packages of measures which only lead to the economy, especially in an economy with the capital control. Do they all make up an environment that is friendly to development, to international investment, to entrepreneurship? Of course not. The country's trade balance deficit speaks for itself. In the first quarter of '16 our exports fall short of imports by 3.5 billion. Six years of squeezing incomes, deregulation of labour relations, have not been able to make us more competitive, more productive. Enlargement, extroverty, growth in the end, continue to evacuate us. The reflexes of Greek society are still under hypnosis. The creative forces of the place are not convinced that they can invest seriously and have benefits in such a fluid environment. Will the development law succeed in getting all these forces out of hypnosis? Can a piece of legislation, apparently under the circumstances and clearly reduced expectations, achieve this difficult task? This is a bill that, although it presents as its basic innovation tax exemptions, these are particularly disgusting, a bill that excludes a large number of tourist units, creating obstacles and ambiguities in their integration, even though we all accept that tourism is really the engine of our economy. Thirdly, it is not aimed at highlighting the specificities and needs of each region. Because one of the features which must be distinguished from development law is the distinction between the specificities of the regions and the choice of where we want to blame. Fourthly, it requires the effective start of the adoption of more than twenty-fifth ministerial decisions. Fifthly, they are not governed by simplicity and clarity for potential investors, with clear instructions and clear deadlines. Finally, it restores mono-faced and thus more subjective and diverse control and evaluation procedures. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Greek economy does not need another fragmentary, non-visual development law. In order to thrive for any changes, in order to come to sustainable development, profound changes in deep-rooted attitudes that prevented opening and extroverting are required. If there is no national understanding, unless we jointly identify the conditions required for a sustainable productive model that will bring national wealth and solid jobs, the country cannot return a page, it cannot come out of this economic stagnation in which it has arrived. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u165	Thank you to Mr Dannelly and to the economy of time. Mr Consolas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to all my colleagues. But if anyone listens to SYRIZA's colleagues, the government, and does not read the law, I am sure it will be convinced that this development law is an excellent project, with innovative incentives, financial instruments and that it is a far-reaching law. This is not the case, however, ladies and gentlemen, because the development law brought by the government to the vote is not only a developmentist. First of all, the financial resources are minimal. Other colleagues have said so in this Chamber. The resources available for the next seven years for direct grants, grants, financial leases for investment projects, are only EUR 480 million by 2022. I mean, here we are in front of a global originality. It's never happened before. We expect investment, we ask for foreign capital and investment to be attracted without development funds for funding. And I would remind you that you are the government, ladies and gentlemen of the government, which has brought a huge blow to the economy and also to the development of the country with the capital controls, a blow to the banking system. While potentially in all countries there is a stir of recession and development initiative, but this is not the case. The second reason why we do not agree that this is an extremely development project is that what you call innovations, ladies and gentlemen, tax exemptions, financial appropriations, is not something new. You didn't discover the gunpowder. There were other development laws these tools. Soon I make a few points, which demonstrate the failures and shortcomings of this legislation. In order to implement fully the law you have brought, there will be a need for presidential decrees, ministerial decisions, ministerial decisions, that is to say, a huge amount of time. There is no room for another delay in the country at this time. After all, there was a one-year delay to get this bill. The provision for saturated areas, instead of abolishing, remains, excluding tourist areas from the possibility of aid. You have to allow me to tell you that there have been major changes which make the designation of a 'cold area' obsolete, particularly in the tourism sector, in which new products and trends are being developed. I would say to you that the characterization of a "closed area" tends to have ideological characteristics for some people at the moment, in fact, who have collapsed narratives. It's self-righteous. Lies. Nor do I see any provision for binding time limits that will be required to complete the payment of the grant. Do you think this encourages or discourages investors? I don't think there's anyone in this room who believes the first one. Everyone who has invested in our country has a bitter experience. You know what happens with the bureaucracy of the public, to transfer in future the repayment of its obligations to private individuals. We should also point out that there is a binding time limit for completing the assessment and the investment proposal, so that errors do not occur from the past. Investment projects in the energy sector and in particular in renewable energy are effectively excluded from the Development Act. Does anyone think that this sector is not a key pillar of development in this country along with the primary sector, tourism? This, ladies and gentlemen, demonstrates the curiosity with which you are legislating. A development law should be linked to the country's development model, with an integrated development plan, a long-term strategy for the country. None of this exists, because in a development plan for the country in the future, as we said before, it is the primary sector, tourism, energy and innovation. What development plan, really, is this development law based on? Nor should there be provision for increased aid and provision for serious aid for partnerships and joint public-private investment initiatives? I would also say to you, Minister, that you should respect the consultation procedure and the parliamentary procedure more closely. Mr. Mitsotakis in his speech made specific examples. You have brought additional transitional provisions, not included in the bill and not in the consultation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I am referring to the provisions of Article 77, which abolishes the advance payments provided for in the previous development laws - Mr President, allow me to make a few references to island Greece - since the bill instead of setting up advance rates changes the way in which these aids and aid approved by previous laws are paid. Those who have invested, punished and have to wait seven years to collect the grant they are entitled to. They also send the worst possible message to the investors on the inside and abroad. It is obvious that some people in the government do not understand the problem created by businesses, but also by the economy. Do you know that many enterprises had entered the grant and now will they be found inconsistent and accountable? Minister, please and I urge you to withdraw this provision. We in the island area know what will happen. Regarding the deadlines for the completion of the investment projects under Law 3299/2004 and Law 3908/2011, I had sent you a memorandum and a letter. Allow me to present it now in the Minutes, because as you know, you have set a six-month deadline for the implementation of 50% of the project, so that an additional extension of up to 30-6-2008 can be granted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u167	Mr. Consola, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u168	Mr President, allow me to conclude in a minute. How realistic do you think this is so that 50% can be implemented in six months from now? Do you realize that the country is being supervised by capital control? There are seventeen months of instability, for which you were fully responsible, Minister. You know the additional bureaucratic obstacles. I would also like to make a reference to the island economy alone and to tourism. It must stop the fairy tale that this investment law is a development law that supports the Aegean islands, following the tax raid and the abolition of reduced VAT rates, and given that there is no provision for aiding businesses active in the tourism sector, because, on the contrary, the restrictions on investment financing provided for by the General Apal Code - in particular Article 14(3) - which provides that tourism enterprises in the South Aegean cannot receive state aid. The aid amounts of the new development law continue to be determined on the basis of 2008 data, where the South Aegean Region is established, rather than renegotiation and revision.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u169	And that's what you're finishing up with, Mr. Consola. You've been talking for seven and a half minutes already.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u170	I shall conclude, Mr President. The development law, Minister, unfortunately excludes the grant of tourist businesses and, in particular, the two-star hotels. As far as the specific categories of aid are concerned, 70% to 100% of the aid for extremist enterprises also provides for a grant of up to 100%. Only you are not yet convinced that tourism is extroverted and that tourism businesses are extroverted. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u171	Mr. Michael from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the new development law. But let us see the specific circumstances under which we are called upon to vote for this law. On a global scale, the economic crisis is given to the European Union. In contrast to the United States and especially the Bricks countries are not in the same situation. In the European Union itself, the crisis specialises at the expense of the weak countries, destroying the demand for the people's expectation of convergence. The intensity of unequal growth deepens the contradictions, leading to the impoverishment of the majority of the peoples, especially the weak European countries. We are approaching a Europe that modern historian Mark Mazar named in his book "Short Continent". And I wonder if last summer's 'we've been waiting for Europe' s s slogan did not make any difference to what Europe we want. And I ask: the Europe of Enlightenment and the social state or the Europe of world wars, of Nazism and of the far right? Anyway, Europe should be whatever it is? Let us also stand on internal data. It's a recent one. I am just listing: GDP reductions of 25%, unemployment at 25%, social degradation, rapid poverty. I support the view that, for all of this, in addition to the ambitious efforts of most of the media on the contrary, the Left is not responsible for either the right of workers from the past to today or as the government of today. Why, the new slogan "resign, leave" that implys. So let's get out of here and see who? The political elite, the associated economic, which managed the course of the country and society and led it to the current situation, a situation that Major Opposition is primarily trying to render to the political presence of SYRIZA, mainly since 2015, as is the history of the place and society beginning in January 2015? I replicate and read the following evaluation report on the data and, in particular, on the behaviour of this elite policy. It says in the report: 'There is no state here according to Western standards. Instead, there is a loose hierarchy of individual politicians, some of whom are worse than others, who are so busy with their personal struggle for power, that they do not have time to develop economic policy, even if we assume they had the ability. There is a great difference in the standard of living and incomes across Greece. Winners, such as industrialists, merchants, speculators and black - colored ones, have effectively dealt with this problem, and no government has dealt with it. In the meantime, the people's masses pass a sinful life." Below it says: "They aim to use foreign aid as a means of perpetuating the privileges of a small scale traders and bankers, who constitute the invisible power in Greece. They have never thought of investing their profits in their own country and helping restore the national economy." This report with a great deal - if not absolute - could be accurate in the past decades. It's not written by a communist or left. It's Paul Porter's 1947 report, envoy of the U.S. Congress to assess US aid. Is this what the Greek people want to continue the rule of the country? Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that there is now considerable discontent in the measures taken. But it is certain that almost no one wants to rectify what is described by the prophet now Paul Porter. The new development law comes after the measures of the summer agreement have been completed. It is a law aimed at today's needs and capabilities of the country and society. It takes into account the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises that have been crushed by exogenous and endogenous factors. In line with the grant with profitability, it prevents the State-owned so-called initiative. The law we are discussing today does not solve everything. However, it has features of targeted and planned development. It is realistic, and that is why it must be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr. Michalis, and the economy in time. Mrs Vulture has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr President. The government has now reached the highest stage of impunity and propaganda. This is necessary in order to cover the worst Memorandum from payment of Memorandums. It is necessary for the government to hide that it has now thrown all taboo. At times SYRIZA - ANEL, at the government of Tsipras even NATO sailors beat port workers in Piraeus! You would dismantle NATO, but obviously you brought it closer, so you could see it better, and it would be easier to dismantle! We are constantly listening to a debate on external enemies. Indeed, all totalitarian regimes are seeking external enemies. And the current government has one more reason, because for it not to protest and not to protest is a matter of life and death. The government propaganda has based precisely on the argument that they went to the elections with a clear agreement on the table and therefore this people wanted, voted on them and agreed with them. So, when the people disagree, it breaks down this basic propaganda argument. The truth is that neither in the agreement nor in the SYRIZA election programme was any of the ones that were voted on these days. Neither subsidiary was mentioned anywhere, nor was the cutter and automatic mechanism that goes directly to wages and pensions, nor did the loans served in the SYRIZA agreement or programme, nor was VAT increased in excess of 100 years. That's all new. It is therefore a very crucial size for SYRIZA to say that there are no protests and the people agree with him, because he voted for them and that the people knew the agreement and that their people want it. The main thing I want to talk about - and this relates to this - is the fact that yesterday he met under the chairmanship of Mr Tsipras and this famous 'Council of National Communication Policy', which comes under a law by Mr Pappas, who fully aims to control public opinion, makes specific reference to internal public opinion, to journalistic mediation, to internal political information. In other words, he goes to the core of freedom of information. And so - I have to say from this Step - at other times only happened. It is a net copy of the Press Surveillance Service on a dictatorship. Nothing else! There is a reference to internal information and to an internal public opinion. Who are you who, under the presidency of the Prime Minister, will meet seven to eight ministers, so that you can control public opinion? What status have you found this in, and do you? But listen now. Goebbels said that he seeks law to deal with conscious lies, that is, his, what he believed to be a conscious liar. And you come and meet with a council and say clearly that you will control internal public opinion and that the mission is to regulate and supervise the media, to subject their organisation and functioning to public law rules, to serve the public interest? And what difference does this make from the famous phrase of Papadopoulos: "In any case, do you have to accept the seriousness of the operation and help us?" You are talking about growth in a country where, in the first quarter of the year, we had an increase of 45.8% in the padlocks, a decrease in exports by 9.3%, an increase in the trade balance deficit, an increase in import value and an increase in export value and imported inflation, a reduction in the turnover of travel agencies, accommodation and focus, deflation, a reduction in demand and investment slowing down. All the evils have fallen on our economy. Yesterday a 35% reduction in the building activity was announced. Industrial production each month declines by 3% to 4%, when in the Eurozone yesterday an increase of 2% was announced. So when people lose their jobs because of capital control, do you come and talk about growth? Reduced tourist movement announced for January - March quarter! That can't be growth. And there is no law, let alone the one who brings nothing special - and in any case it does not bring anything in 2016 and 2017, and brings something a little later - to create conditions for growth. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude with that, Mr President. The evidence disproves you and that is why you only make propaganda and baptism. The Government Representative Mr. Gerovasili came here and said: "Yes, we are left in terms of memorial terms", that is, you are baptizing yourself now. You have finished all other baptisms and you are baptizing yourself what you are. You have defined yourself as a left in terms of memorial terms. The only taboo you have held is the taboo of Madour and Venezuela. Only against him doesn't say anything. Everything else you've done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u175	Mr. Karanastassis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u176	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would really like to begin with the last positions of some former ministers of the Government of New Democracy. They're blaming us for no growth. Really, those who have ruled the country over the last fifty years are talking about growth when they have not yet managed to make a motorway from Patras and Athens - Thessaloniki - Evzones? They are the ones that have not built the high-speed rail, so that we are still the worst country in the rail infrastructure in Europe. It is those who have led all these years to achieve unemployment of 27% and GDP falling by 25%, to have one and a half million unemployed from the private sector, the private initiative supported by the New Democracy! Is it possible for the SYRIZA - ANEL Government to be indicted at the moment for not being able to mobilise the economy? I think they should have been much more careful, really, on such matters, when the whole world knows what the situation is in our country and who has led it here. I'm coming to today's bill. As demonstrated by the debate, the draft law under consideration has the agreement or even the positive view of the actors, which shows that it is moving in the right direction. As stated in the explanatory memorandum, this draft law constitutes one of the main response lines of the country to the extremely critical challenges posed by both the international environment and the structure of the domestic production system. The deposit of the new development law takes place at a difficult time when the Greek economy has acquired comparatively competitive disadvantages, which refer to the structure of the productive sector and the role of the state, the traditional pathogenesy, the low momentum to entrepreneurship that has not taken place in recent years, with a recent factor in the crisis of low reserves of social capital. At the same time, however, it also retains basic competitive advantages in sectors such as agri-foodstuffs, information and communication technologies, tourism and shipping. It is also these sectors that are the target of the new development law. At the same time, the country has resources, such as high-quality human capital and exceptional climatic conditions, which, if exploited, can serve as comparative advantages of the Greek economy for a number of primary production and tourism products. Previous development laws limited their role in a liquidity facility in the economy by strengthening the established branches and hesitating to set clear sectoral or horizontal targets. Thus, although they contributed to a significant extent to the formation of fixed capital in the country, they have had little impact on the structure of the economy. Although the regional dimension is a common objective of development laws, the contribution of the previous ones to the downturn of regional disparities is not obvious. At the county level, it should be stressed that there are even more significant variations, which are covered at regional level. For example, in Law 2601/1998, while Central Greece appears as the third most important region, two of its prefectures, Fokida and Evrytania are among the five counties with the fewest in absolute numbers of investment projects, four and eight respectively, while, on the contrary, the Voiotia Prefecture is a fifth in number with ninety five investment projects and a third in volume of investment capital invested in all the counties of Athens. In the new law, the main aim of the country's balanced development, a close effort was made to highlight its less favoured areas, which are characterised by the law as specific areas and were integrated into the specific categories of aid. The new development law is a crucial tool for achieving the country's development planning. It seeks to create innovative, extroverted, dynamic, sustainable businesses, increase employment with emphasis on trained human resources, aiming at restoring the flight of young scientists. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Finally, it gives the Government's mark on the kind of state that it is seeking, a state that is not a mere market observer, but without claiming the role of the businessman, it will be a state that is simplified in the face of bureaucracy, a deep development that is capable of performing the role of the supporter and of supporting all the productive reconstruction of our economy. Ladies and gentlemen, it is certain that the development law alone cannot lead the country out of the crisis. They need synergies of all the financial instruments, be they the ESDP, the 2014-2020 programming period, whether the Yunger package or the European Investment Bank financing. But the key to growth always remains a modern public administration, with the aim of serving citizens and the public interest, as well as the country's productive reconstruction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u177	Mrs Vanja from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the development word is probably the one that has been heard more often than anyone else in this Chamber and that is justified. It has been known for years since the crisis, that the only way out of the warp of recession and unemployment has been through the implementation of a sustainable balanced and fair development plan. The draft law we are debating today, the development law, aims at this very point, to create the basis on which the country's development model will be built, so that we can get out of the crisis. First of all, I want to say a few words about how we got here. Indeed, it is not a question of confrontation, but we must all, first and foremost, have a full picture so that we can judge, judge or even applaud. Data from the three previous development laws clearly show that both at planning and implementation level, but mainly at the level of anticipated results, have failed miserably. Obviously, the choice of support for large and very large investment projects in previous laws was a political decision and in full harmony with the urban nature and ideological profile of the governments that voted for them. His choice of "we give a lot to a few" led to an average investment cost per job near one million euros in the last law of 2011, which, in my opinion, is not at all developmental. The fact that, in the end, a very small group of businesses and groups were permanently involved, beneficiaries and eligible for the portion of the grant lion in all development laws shows the real objective of the governments that voted for them, that it was not the country's balanced economic development. The concepts such as innovation, extroversion, productivity increase and job growth were not in the main objectives of previous laws, so that the vast majority of the investment projects concerned low-tech investment activities. Finally, the lack of data on the performance of the projects supported shows either the sloppyness of the implementation of the laws, or the indifference to the result, or even leap. A development law must contribute to the development of the country and the national economy in general. Otherwise, it is a law that can serve various purposes, but it is not development. So, today I am happy, because we are discussing a draft law that has all those characteristics of a substantial, complete, sustainable and balanced tool that the winter economy and the country so badly needs. There are many aspects of the project that show the different directions and perspectives. I will stand up to what I consider to be more important. Firstly, it is the provision of the project for the least-favoured areas of the country, such as mountain, island and border areas, which are part of a special scheme of increased support. Thus, any benefits will relate to the entire territory and its inhabitants, without so far known over-concentration of funds, activities and jobs in the large urban centres. The diffusion of the beneficiaries through the introduction of maximum levels of aid that can be received by individual projects and groups is also very positive and consistent with our own development logic. Enterprise performance as an aid criterion can ensure that investment projects are directed towards innovation, outwardly and of high added value. The abolition of the obligation for own participation is another step in the right direction. It is known that in the past, companies had purchased from banks attestations of non-existent own funds for remuneration. The road is now opening so that small, healthy businesses can be subject to development law without reserves. Enlargement of the business forms that can be subject to development law is another innovation. Moreover, apart from the companies and groups, they will be eligible and the agricultural cooperatives and producer groups and public and private enterprises, as well as the public. Innovation in this area goes a step further with the definition of synergy and networking schemes, the ringers. I think that this is where a new, new horizon for the country is opened for cooperation at the moment, but they could make a difference. The change in the way the investment projects are assessed, the definition of an evaluator and the use of an Investment Plan Assessment Guide is aimed, on the one hand, at speeding up the process and, on the other hand, at an objective assessment as far as possible. Thus, it will be avoided in the past, with perpetual evaluations, blackmails and hostages on either side. The concept of assessing the impact of the aid, with the obligation of the Minister concerned to submit to Parliament an annual report with all the information that gives a picture of the progress and effectiveness of the law, is another guarantee that the objective is achieved. As I have already said, there are many elements of the plan which guarantee the creation of an effective development law. The most important thing, in my opinion, is to open up support in every form and, above all, every size of business, and that is how the SYRIZA - ANEL Government understands growth. Ladies and gentlemen, because of the situation we have inherited and because of the country's obligations vis-à-vis creditors and the European Union in general, we have unfortunately not had the opportunity so far to legislate as a government in the way we would like and in the way that arises from our ideological position. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The present draft law is essentially the beginning of a new period for both the government's legislative work and the country's progress towards exit from the recession. A very good development law will emerge from this bill. I would therefore urge you to vote on the country's good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u179	We continue with the Member of the New Democracy, Mr. Vlasi.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u180	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened with great interest to the views of the government officials on the new development law, and I confess that I am surprised because I have listened to bi-corruption plans, comments, statements full of hope for an innovative plan that lays the foundations for the country's exit from the crisis. The same thing, of course, you have said about the famous 'parallel programme' that was supposed to redress the people from all the sufferings that hurt him. But in the end, it was nothing more than a communal trick and an uncovered check. Reading carefully the draft law I looked into the innovations and strategic planning that will make the difference and give impetus to the Greek economy. But unfortunately, I didn't manage to find those features. Unless it is an innovation you characterize as 'clusters', financial intermediaries, regional cohesion and all that, which is nothing more than a faithful copy of the European Union's General Afalactory Regulation. After all, it was also provided for by the previous development law. Honestly, I wonder why you have been late for eighteen months to bring the development law to the House. Of course, not because of a workload, because this text does not resolve key issues which, even in the midst of a difficult economic situation, could not be resolved, of course, because you have made a substantial dialogue with the producers, who know better than each of us here, the real needs of the economy. Once again, their proposals have been ignored. In order to be understood, however, by the ordinary citizen, the extent of the poverty of your arguments and your policy, I shall mention a few simple elements. When it is commonly accepted that, in order to achieve the effective relaunch of the Greek economy, investment of EUR 100 billion is required, how do you think you will have the same result with only EUR 500,000,000 by 2022? Even in the most optimistic scenario your development plan wants to cause additional investments of EUR 11 billion, we will again be in 1/10 of the target. In addition, instead of simplifying procedures and promoting a rapid pacemaker, you choose to structure - obviously, once again, to help the people - an extremely bureaucratic system, apart from the fact that, in order to activate the law, it takes thirty ministerial decisions. There is also provision for the setting up of various committees, but also for a multi-dimensional and stimulus board with two subcommittees. Obviously, your recent experience with the endless negotiation with our partners has not taught you that every day that passes without work, costs expensively in the country. You are being punished against the investors of the previous development law. How else can you explain how, even those who manage to complete their investment, will be paid after seven whole years? As for the financial strangulation brought about by this bill, which leads to a significant reduction in the beneficiaries, I think it is the first and indicative of your allergies to any private investment initiative. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] In fact, it's like you want to prevent aspiring investors. Unless you consider that in Greece of prolonged capital controls one can proceed without advance payment. The profit clause, which requires profitability in the last seven years of the crisis, is rather a joke that can be dealt with. For all these reasons, and also for much more, to which I do not have time to refer, ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy will vote against this draft law in principle. It is not so much the technical details, which raise many objections, which lead us to it, as your intrinsic inability to understand the essence of the concept of 'development'. Development will come only when the Greek state is able to appear credible again, but also to structure a stable, friendly and attractive environment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And you from the first day of your election have managed to do exactly the opposite. You know, they're the same markets that danced at the pace of your so-called left taboo, from which you're now asking to trust the country, to invest. They are the same people to whom you have imitated your revolutionary banquet and treated them as fantasy windmills, those who are now asking them to trust their money in our country. Fortunately, Greece has enormous potential but also people worthy to highlight and exploit these possibilities. And all this will soon get over you and restore the image of the country, bringing it to the place it deserves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u181	Mr. Nzimanis has the floor from SYRIZA. Two other speakers will follow, and then we will give the floor to the State Secretary, Mr Haritsis. Here you go, Mr. Nzimani.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am opposed to any questions and surprises that were raised by previous Vice-Presidents regarding the situation, because it is like 'collecting glaukas in Athens', if I can analyse again who brought the country into this situation and who is responsible for it. Today we are discussing the new development law, an investment tool that will mark the return to growth with a social signal. This draft law is directly linked to the completion of the assessment, the stabilisation of the investment environment and the restoration of investor confidence in our country. It aims at small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, especially in productive and with comparative advantages, which had been excluded in the previous period due to the current distortion of development. The favourable provisions of the new law on the creation of innovative extroverted production units are development tools, to overcome the six-year economic crisis experienced by the country. The development law dynamically supports those enterprises that will contribute decisively to changing the productive model of the Greek economy, with a view to sustainable growth and healthy entrepreneurship, with respect for the environment and human working conditions. It also aims to produce high-value products and services and to keep young and qualified scientists away from abroad. The new development law includes a series of innovations, compared to previous ones, and is not an improved version of them. It is the result of a thorough study of the current state of the Greek economy, the country's development prospects and the best practices applied in other countries. Previous development laws may have contributed to the formation of the country's fixed capital and the reduction of regional disparities, but lacking restructuring dynamics and logic. They were a mechanism to provide liquidity and strengthen specific sectors, but without clear sectoral and horizontal objectives. For example, 95% of investment projects were low and relatively low technology. In contrast to previous laws, it is clear that the different perceptions and approach under the new development law are different. And it is to promote balanced development, to strengthen the disadvantaged regions of the country, to increase employment, to improve cooperation between small and medium-sized enterprises, which will ultimately lead to their strengthening, to the development of a new extroverted and innovative national identity, to improve competitiveness in areas of high added value and intensity of knowledge, to seek to produce better products and to provide quality services. The most important innovation in the new law is the diversification of the link between financial instruments, with emphasis on the use of tax exemptions, so that aid is directly linked to performance. Apart from tax exemptions and subsidies, other financial instruments are: subsidies on wage costs, cost-sharing on the job created, stabilising the income tax rate, financing risk, through the equity fund. Another substantial innovation in the law is the definition of eight aid schemes. This law places particular emphasis on the investment projects of small and medium-sized enterprises. These constitute the backbone of the Greek economy and are expected to create more jobs. In particular, it is particularly important that, for the first time, the COMESCs, cooperatives, producer groups and enterprises with a significant performance in promising sectors, such as technology, information technology and agri-food sectors, are included. They are areas in which our country has a significant comparative advantage. The minimum eligibility thresholds for these structures are set as follows: 75,000 for JEPs, 100,000 for micro-enterprises, 250,000 for medium-sized enterprises and close-ups and 500,000 for large enterprises. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm sorry, Mr. President. I need another minute. The Act takes into account and provides for specific categories of aid for disadvantaged areas. The aim is to combat the disadvantage of the regions concerned. Finally, the bill provides for extensions for existing investment projects. The country's new development plan will also be supplemented with other financial instruments such as the Research and Innovation Fund, the Rural Development Programme and the sectoral and regional ESRB programmes. I am sure that with the adoption of the new development law a new page will be launched in the economic development of Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u183	Mr Ballis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, speaking of a development bill, first of all we should talk about the environment in which it is proposed and ambitious to operate - internal and external environment - how markets and investors are involved in the Greek economy, how reliable and economic stability can be presented, but also what possibilities are available internally after years of austerity, fiscal adjustment, strict and economic policy, with a specific orientation. It was mainly on these issues that we should wait for positions and counter-proposals, labelling, improvements and criticism from the standpoint of Anti-Population. Instead, we have again watched an overall attack on the government and its policy, against its choices and the direction it wants to give the economy as a whole. Expectedly, on the one hand, because with regard to the government's specific plan, the opposition should otherwise present a similarly structured plan of counter-proposal, with another philosophy, not government philosophy, for development which distributes much to many, helping small and medium-sized enterprises, partnerships, cooperatives and initiatives in the social economy - but, of course, their philosophy, model of previous years, which gave many of the few and specific business groups, which did not promote selected and dynamic sectors of the economy. On the other hand, because in such a case they should also respond to the representatives of the bodies who, as we have seen at the committee meeting, were favourably and positively opposed to this draft law. What was the Qualified Opposition proposed to us? It was summarised in a phrase by the Parliamentary spokesman and repeated by other speakers: "Give tax, to have investments, to get investors." What is the philosophy of this proposal? Recognise again the large profitable business groups - since the small and medium-sized enterprises we want to strengthen have unexistent or compressed profitability - and favour few and large, at the expense of the small ones, who have the real need. Of course, the Parliamentary spokesman for the Officerial Representation did not omit, by closing his speech yesterday, to advertise the gathering in the Constitution, repeating their motto: "Resign". They will, of course, rush in a few hours to state their surname in a - supposedly - without signing anonymity gathering. As anonymous as the absolute matching of this concentration's code of conduct with the rhetoric that has recently been adopted by the new Head of New Democracy. Both spontaneous and revealing the names of those who have this initiative of invitation - as known executives, statemen and representatives of heterogeneous spaces, who constitute today's opposition front - but also as political in the end, as the renouncement of participation in parties, trade unions, institutions of society. The right hot pillow for the incubation of the snake's egg. "The world protests in the squares," other speakers from the opposition told us. He protests about the taxes and cuts the government has brought. What are you complaining about? For free electricity and water in vulnerable households? To subsidise rent to twenty-two thousand households? For the solidarity card to a hundred and fifty thousand beneficiaries? To access two and a half million uninsured people's health? For the reorientation of employment programmes? To protect first residence in all types of loans? For the arrest of the great tax evasion? To open the Lagard list, Boyarns and others? To increase tourist streams to record heights? For the new framework in public procurement? To change from the customer state to a citizen-friendly state? To stop smuggling? Or are you ultimately complaining about the examination of the sea-supply that has been given to parties and media in the years of the crisis? [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] Earlier yesterday, the rapporteur of the New Democracy had argued that "we had many investment projects, the current government only has to show a reduction in exports, a reduction in business turnover, a cut in unemployment and even a reduction in tourist current". The Minister of Economy, Mr. Stathakis, told you that you are using the wrong indicators. Make selective use of indicators for both exports and tourism. And, uh, you don't trust Stathakis. Can you trust the BSE data? Because it repeats exactly the same in its last bulletin of June. If it didn't fall to your attention, I'm filing it in the Minutes so you can search it and find the confirmations you're looking for. So that's all you're accusing us of. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Simeon Ballis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned BSE document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Stenography and Practice Directorate.]] [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] To conclude, Mr President - and I thank you for your tolerance - I would like to say this. In your 'demand', we tell you to listen. Humiliate society, which points to you in all tone that you cannot promise the future by invoking its materials, faces, ideas and practices yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u185	Mr Zabeck Hussein has the floor for five minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, the new development law we are debating today in plenary is proof that the government has as its main priority the creation of a new development and productive reconstruction framework for the country. Contrary to previous development laws, which did not have a long-term objective and vision for strengthening the economy, the new development law is a valuable tool for restructuring the economy, avoiding inconveniences to the past. We should not therefore consider the new development law as just a mechanism for providing liquidity with aid in established sectors, such as the previous ones. The fact is that the previous investment projects supported were largely low-tech, while the two main sectors supported were energy and tourism. Their main disadvantage, however, was that most of the aid was concentrated around a few enterprises, which also absorbed huge sums of money, without guaranteeing the support of small and medium-sized enterprises. At the same time, there has always been provision for the decline in regional disparities, without that also making considerable progress in this direction, so that many regions are the poor relative of Attica. The new development law, therefore, is moving in a different direction from previous laws, as for us it is a tool for fair growth. In particular, aid to the technology, information, communication and agro-food chain sectors demonstrates the government's intention to exploit the country's productive wealth. The point I would particularly like to make is the concern of the new development law on specific aid areas. It is a fact that, with the choices of the previous governments, the mismanagement and the consequences of the memoranda of certain regions have been further affected. In previous development laws, although the regional dimension was taken care of, the gap has not been closed. Especially the region of eastern Macedonia and Thrace was very high in investment, which did not bring about the expected, but instead led the economy of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace to very low levels, making it one of the poorest regions, with huge unemployment rates for the citizens, and this is because the previous development laws provided their capital in a simple way without a specific plan for the region, so that East Macedonia and Thrace have turned into a candle and bankrupt store, leaving thousands of unemployed who have only escaped immigration. The new development law comes to cover this gap and for the first time forms a project for specific aid areas which ensures the viability of enterprises. In this direction, the shift towards tax exemptions, with a stable tax environment, and also subsidies, to a greater extent than is permitted, is being directed towards strengthening new investments. In particular, the additional incentives of these regions are to grant 100% of the permitted limit, tax exemptions, fixed rates of taxation, wage bills and others. The Xanthi Prefecture includes eight areas: Xanthi, Stavroupolis, Vistonida, Seleros, Myce, Thermos, Kotylis, and Satras. All these areas have excellent potential for attracting investment, both in agriculture and in healing tourism, and the government's proposal to strengthen mountain areas is crucial to us in the region. Finally, we have in front of us a development law that comes to cover the sufferings of all the previous governments, who liked to share money with large and few businesses, mainly, without them giving up the expected results to the state, leading to today's results. Our main aim is for this development law to be truly developmental and to lead the country to fair growth, to create new jobs, to support specific aid areas and to invest in the country's productive potential and small and medium-sized enterprises. Through exploiting the advantages of each region, we are strengthening new businesses and supporting old ones. We hope that the new development law, together with the ESDP programmes and the new Rural Development Programme, will lead to the real start of the economy and the primary sector, with healthy cooperatives and support for agricultural production. These areas are the backbone of the economy. In order to become competitive in European markets, we are seeking to increase production with private products and services. Only in this way will we reverse the climate in Thrace and throughout Greece. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Madam President. In conclusion, I would like to express my sympathy to the citizens of the Municipality of Arrianes in Rodopi Prefecture for the floods we had yesterday and to the citizens of the Municipality of Abderon and especially Genisea for the disasters caused by the tornadove and afterward the hail, which caused serious damage to houses, farmed areas and the village shelter. The state mechanism and all of us, by every means, must be mobilised immediately so that people's wounds can heal at these critical times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Mr. Zabeck. Mr. Haritsis has the floor for ten minutes. Is ten minutes enough? You'll have a tolerance of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to begin my speech with a very brief regression in the history of development laws, in order to put the debate on its real dimensions. The development law is the oldest institutional development framework in the country. Its first forms, with those of grants, have already been in place since the late 1970s. The criteria according to which incentives were provided and awarded were a combination of geographical, sectoral and descriptive elements of the investment proposals. These criteria, however, were not based on specific developmental profiles of the Greek regions, but were tracking a general underdevelopment of the regions and trying, with the logic of the incentive, to reduce regional disparities. Thus, despite the strong regional dimension of the first development laws, they could not ultimately reverse the unequal distribution of economic activity in the country and created a problematic distribution of resources between regions and sectors. Later, and with the entry of the Community Support Frameworks and the ESDP into financing, development laws were divided internally, with simple criteria for separation into development projects financed by the National Public Investment Programme and development projects financed by the European Programmes, the Community Support Framework and the ESDP. The criteria for this separation were more typical and quantitative and were not guided by a single philosophy of development intervention and a change in development model. Thus, the development law did not serve either national objectives or the distinct objectives of the Structural Funds and regional convergence and cohesion policy. During this period, development laws have essentially been transformed into simple investment aid mechanisms which only served the train investment, unable to resist any trend of international division of labour and tertiaryization of the economy. On the contrary, they disproportionately charged the country's trade balance with the purchase of capital equipment, without this equipment entering the service of another type of development. The previous and more recent development laws have therefore not changed the structure of the economy. There was no clear targeting and vision, and the role was limited to a liquidity facility, strengthening established branches, hesitating to set different sectoral or horizontal targets. The result was to produce low added value, with results that we have all experienced. A sound development model, based on bubbles, which, by its collapse, ultimately led to the dismantling of production and the deep economic crisis, which we are experiencing today. The distortions caused by these policies - overconcentration of aid, the creation of huge debts to investors through overcompensation, low-tech investments, higher costs, regenerating jobs, etc. - the Minister responsible, Mr Stathakis, analysed them yesterday. I don't need to expand. But all the above, these distortions of the past have happened because there has been no overall planning on the part of the State for where the investments should be directed and there has been a logic based only on a fragmentary and, where appropriate, strengthening of activities. We, with the new development law, are trying to change this model. We do not want a client state to share cash with 'locals' or, of course, we do not understand the state as a state - a Night Guard. The State is actively intervening in order to correct the distortions that the market sometimes produces and, of course, to formulate development prospects. Because it is very important to find the resources - public and private - to finance the economy, but it is also important to direct these resources to those activities, geographical areas and productive subjects, which will ultimately produce the maximum possible results for the economy. We therefore want a state which creates networks and economies of scale within the economy and combines all the available policy tools it has in its hands to promote the strategic plan. We are not talking about growth in general and without vagueness. For us development has a clear political and social content. Development cannot be a slowdown in wages and pensions and the country's conversion into a huge special economic zone. Growth must be sustainable and fair. Sustainable means strengthening targeted productive investments, public, private and social. Fair growth means a more proportionate distribution of the wealth produced. It is through this redistribution that most democracy is in productive relations. In this sense, we are moving towards a comprehensive plan to make the best use of all the financial resources available to us. We cannot and should not see any financial instrument, whether this is the NSRF or the new development law, cut off from the overall effort. That is why we are very pleased that we have managed the NRP and the development law to be governed by the same philosophy and to follow the same rules, both in terms of financing investment projects for the sectors and sectors that are eligible and in terms of investment logic, which is followed. We are escaping from a mere subsidised logic, which has prevailed in the past, and we are entering into the use of more complex tools, which will enable us to have the potential to maximise the multiplier effects for the economy. As you know, eight key priority areas have been identified in the ESDP. These very areas of priority are also recognised in development law. And, of course, the resources of the ESDP are committed to meet the needs of the new development law. Regarding the philosophy of the new law, we have to say that the law aims to broaden the export base of the Greek economy. It therefore falls within the framework of the creation of the new production model that we are already implementing. At the same time, it aims to create innovative products and services of high added value. And through development law, the aim is to bring these layers, young scientists and new entrepreneurs into the production process, which will take the matter of development on board. The development law is not a general law, which is addressed indifferently to everyone, but it responds to specific problems. It specialises in eight individual aid schemes, each targeting differently, through which its work will now be carried out. You will allow me to stand by some of them, of course, because time is too limited too, to show complementarity with other tools, such as the NRP. Firstly, the aim is to rapidly integrate undertakings in each type for the acquisition of machinery and means of transport without a competitive procedure and to pay the aid directly by carrying out administrative checks. We thus contribute to the upgrading of the company and complement the respective actions of the NSRP to expand the activity of existing small and medium-sized enterprises. For the first time, in fact, incentives are being given for the acquisition of second-hand machinery, which will give the opportunity to use unrealistic capacity. Secondly, investment in innovation for small and medium-sized enterprises: to note here that a very important innovation in the new development law is the emphasis placed on information and communication technologies. Information and communication technologies contribute to the more efficient operation of the public and business sector as they horizontally increase the potential for innovation in all industrial and other sectors of production, improve productivity, help optimise the use of resources and facilitate access of businesses to markets. Especially for Greece, the new technologies sector is a sector that has all the mature characteristics, know-how and human resources to be one of the most important intangible advantages in the country, in which it will invest significantly in the next recovery crisis. Both through the NSRF and through the development law, we have a great deal of emphasis on information and communication technologies, which was left only in the declarations in previous corresponding efforts. Third, business associations and clubs: The aim here is to enhance the competitiveness of the businesses involved in cooperative schemes and networks, with a view to increasing the cooperative culture of Greek entrepreneurship, increasing productivity and strengthening extroversion. Such actions have already been launched by the new ESDP. Finally, in relation to the aid schemes, you will allow me to talk about financial intermediaries and the funds of participation, through which businesses are able to gain access to equity funds in order to stimulate their liquidity and to expand their activities. Here philosophy, targeting, planning and preparation are very different compared to the past. Let me remind you that the design of financial instruments in the past had no provision for the companies that were part of the old development laws, and their absorption path was tragic. When we received these financial instruments, absorption was not even in 1/3 of resources. It had been "parked" to them about a billion euros, money declared by previous governments as absorption, and this money had never been seen by companies. And in this area, then, we are exalting the situation, energising resources and channelling them where they were demanded and actively leaving on the market two useful tools for business up to the autumn of 2016, with the aim of meeting current needs for cheap lending, at interest rates around 3.5%. I would like to say a few words about the financing of development law. It has already been said that the initial funding is 3.6 billion aid, which will be provided in the coming years, 600 million from the ESRB and some 1.3 billion from the National Public Investment Programme. This amount will be gradually increased by the use of financial instruments, and will also be following the growing trend of the national component of the Public Investment Programme, because for the second year we are moving towards increasing the National Public Investment Programme by an additional EUR 250 million and will continue to increase it in the coming years, as you will see in the medium-term programme that we will be tabling in the next period. We are doing exactly what the previous governments have done. In other words, when we had six years of continuous reduction of the Public Investment Programme and while the Public Investment Programme was being reduced, new investments were also included in the old development laws, which should be covered by the Public Investment Programme. In other words, we had 6 billion times from development laws, 6 billion overcompensations from the NSRP, 12 billion, that is, a total policy with no money, commonly deception of the world. By increasing, then, the Public Investment Programme, we are giving an additional financial impetus to development law. I will say a few words, and I will close up for the NSRF and the activation of the NSRF 2014-2020, because yesterday there were some inaccuracies in the House. First of all, the country is first in all the activation indicators between the twenty-eight Member States of the European Union, both in terms of the approval of the programmes and their specialisation. It has already been specified 25% of the new ESDP programmes and by the end of September it will have been specified 50%. There will therefore be already EUR 9 billion of Community participation in the new ESDP invitations by the end of September. Evidently, project payments are progressing intensively, and already the figures show that this year we are better off than the previous years. The Community contribution that the country has received from the new ESDP is already 13% of all the Community funds available to us. Once again, we will achieve all the quantitative and qualitative objectives we have set for the new ESDP. You were fabulously disproved in 2015 for those who were at risk. You will be disobeyed this year. The ESDP is not a privileged area of opposition, and it can be seen from the debate on these days, nor is development law. But you will allow me to make a comment, because it was heard by the river rapporteurs, about bureaucracy. Apparently, they haven't seen the latest developments. The intermediaries of the previous NSRP were sixty and we reduced them to five. If this means increasing bureaucracy, everyone takes their own conclusions. Finally, for the first time, the ESDP and development law are integrated into a common strategy. For the first time there is general and regional development philosophy. For the first time, the development law will not only contribute to the absorption indicators, but also to the change in production structure. For the first time, all the financial instruments will be hit at the same pace, both classical subsidies and modern leverage tools. For the first time, finally, the fundamental features of the law and a mere investment, i.e. a mere sum of individual investments, are reversed, with clear regional, sectoral and investment criteria and two additional features: a specific development strategy for specialisation and specific targeting or extroversion. The new development law is part of the country's development and will make a decisive contribution to the effort for fair and sustainable development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr. Haritsi. Mr. Panzas has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the country has been bankrupt in recent years. He's been bankrupt by the parties that ruled her. PASOK and New Democracy forty years have deceived the Greek people. They created pathogens that were irreversible, just to keep them in power and chair. One of these pathogens is the country's productive model. A productive model, which aimed exclusively at taking it away from the few, rather than reducing the number of people below the limit of absolute poverty and how it will limit the unequal distribution of income. Result? Poverty, unemployment and inequality are in the front line. In fact, previous governments know that they had three development laws and a number of ten amendments. A 20-year-old eternal growth, full of eyebrows, full of false promises and fictional gains. So respond, gentlemen, to PASOK and New Democracy, where you have ruled the place, in the new generation that has migrated: why did you not fight poverty, unemployment and inequality? Why didn't you meet her needs, but instead you pushed them abroad? Say about the overprications, about the 'gifts', about the political ok that had to be given, in order to proceed with an investment. For the mentality you excite, that only the stealer goes forward. For the party and the business you've been setting up for decades, cheating on the Greek people. This is the productive model of the transformation of PASOK and New Democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, the country has a development descent, low productivity, it has six years of continuous recession, with unemployment rates reaching 25% and a contraction of our national wealth of 25% from 2009 until today. A refugee crisis, with flows which have constantly deteriorated and which have become an instrument and a tool for foreign policy by neighbour Turkey. It has isolated regions and excluded from the production process. Mostly, however, it has an economy with negative psychology and a negative investment climate. So in Attica, both in the eastern and western Attica, with municipalities such as Megaras, Eleusina, Aspropyrgos, Paiña and others, that is, regions affected by unemployment, while they have industrial areas. Here I would like to make a proposal, Mr Minister: to extend to those municipalities, which I mentioned earlier, the very low rate of aid and to go to the maximum planned rate, which is 50%, Minister. So in all this, which affects the investment climate and foreign direct investment, we are responding with interventions in the insurance sector, with struggles in Europe for debt regulation, with interventions in the tax system for large investments, against bureaucracy, with interventions by Mr Vernardakis in bills coming to Parliament, with interventions in justice, to deal with the increased cases pending. We respond with basic institutional interventions, which are already being discussed, and of course with this draft law, which aims at innovation, extroversion, new jobs, high-trained human resources, social economy, Greek industry. It emphasises the border regions and the islands, in the fields of technology and information technology, communications, agriculture and tourism, with social justice, with substantial changes and interventions in the development process and not with instruments that favour economic development for the few having at the expense of many. Ladies and gentlemen, the country is entering a new process, a new perspective. Only if the pathogens created by PASOK and New Democracy are solved, will there be economic growth and will come inevitably. And that's what we do. This government has been elected, in order to break abscessions and sufferings of decades to combat poverty, unemployment and inequality, to meet the needs of modern generation, without undermining the generations of the future, as the former have done. That is our goal, this is our mission, that is our purpose. And we'll get him, no matter how much the thief calls, to be afraid of the housekeeper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Mr Panjah, and actually in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u192	Wasn't I time consistent, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u193	Yeah, that's what I said, that's why I thanked you. Mr. Pallis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u194	Ladies and gentlemen, the development law comes to Parliament to be voted on in order to determine the country's strategic development in the sense of fair sharing, taking into account the objective difficulties and the potential of the place, in the direction of growth based on the human potential we have as a country, high added value and extroversion and the advantages of innovation and technology. We are therefore in fact also indulging in the realism of the Opposition. By who? Just before the Minister analyzed who the development laws they had brought in these years, he analysed how this development law comes and what he wants to give. Generally speaking, operators are the most excellent development law that has come and gives prospects. What's our problem? The placement takes place on the basis of whether the bill, the new development law, is able to mobilise the productive forces of the place. I shall speak in particular about the islands of the northern Aegean and the Lesvos Prefecture. Let us look at the great picture of the Lesvos Prefecture, an image that is not very different from that of the rest of Greece. The crisis and the memorials have dismantled the productive base of the island, our islands, which is mainly based on family businesses. The results are mass unemployment, whose numbers have no historical precedent. We are talking about ten thousand unemployed in the islands, which, together with the older production potential, calls into question the viability and future of our islands. So we need to create new jobs immediately in numbers that are unprecedented for the history of both the country and the islands. In order to have a size class, historical unemployment on our islands, namely the number of unemployed in the years of 'development' - in parentheses and introductory forms - was around two and a half thousand. In order to have a order of magnitude, too, in order to achieve an objective that says that in a decade's time we will be able to bring unemployment back to those levels, a thousand jobs a year should be created. Such patterns of job creation, ladies and gentlemen, have never been recorded in the history of capitalism, both on our island and in Greece as a whole. The average employment in our country is about one and a half employees per undertaking, while the companies employing more than ten workers are a few dozen. If these are the real facts of the problem, what are the solutions we can have? Whether we are hoping that investors, businessmen, who will undertake to create massive jobs - I will add to them the state - will either have a massive migration of the new unemployed towards mainland Greece, which is facing the same problems, but above all abroad, or, finally, we hope to activate the very local society, in the direction of creating the conditions - in fact, of the new conditions - for entry into the labour market. In our opinion, therefore, the most realistic and sustainable choices for the future of the islands and people living there seem to be the latter. The creation of mass jobs will be done either by enabling investors to find cheap labour and thus move on to labour-intensive investments, or, in the absence of this, by exploiting the work in the means of production and thus making investments which make use of the available technology. For the islands, however, none of these can be found. It is something that has not happened over the last few decades and it is difficult to do. The activation of local communities themselves therefore seems a one-way path. This is not only necessary, but also possible. But, in order to allow local communities of the islands and the country, the unemployed, the local productive potential to take on the development issue, there are three basic conditions, which are also the main axes of the productive reconstruction framework, namely the financial resources that will be placed on the market, a favourable legal framework which is locally friendly and the mechanisms for mobilising productive potential. The new development law, as part of the overall support framework for productive reconstruction, therefore, we consider that it cannot be cut off and isolated. It must be an overall framework that will bring the economy forward. The development law is part of the first category, but it does not work autonomously. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You'll give me a minute, Madam President, please. Let me remind you of the OAS programmes, the new ESDP - the Minister mentioned - but at the same time also put the framework for island status. The lowering of the thresholds for investment by means of the new development law to EUR 100,000 for small businesses and EUR 75,000 for the SIPS actually closes a key gap that has existed so far in the whole of the previous aid scheme. Everyone knows about the EUR 200,000 and that it was impossible for many to join. That was the main reason why it did not go to the northern Aegean. At the same time, however, there is also the ESDP programme. We are talking first of all about a fund that will finance, about funds that will make synergies. The Minister referred to this. I shall conclude by saying this briefly: in conclusion, from all of this, from the developmentist and from the legislation that will come about for the social and solidarity economy, let me say that, apart from the mobilisation of the necessary resources, society needs to be mobilised. So these external and objective conditions will strengthen even more - we will also discuss the legal framework for our country's social and solidarity economy - and to a large extent cover the second axis, which I mentioned earlier, and is the activation of local societies. The opposition must understand that this huge case of relaunching the economy, which will be supported by other means, such as support centres for business, will go ahead. The government will go forward because for the first time it sets a framework that is compatible with our society and the model that can be developed in our society. So quit, ladies and gentlemen of the counterpopulation, by the sterile and foolish opposition. Citizens have understood and will contribute to this. In the end, you will be left alone, fighting a national effort, doing harm only in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u195	Now Mr Anastassios Pratsolis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, starting my speech I cannot help talking about today's news. According to the "ERGANI", in the first five months of the year the highest performance in the last fifteen years has been recorded by creating about two hundred thousand jobs. Of course we are not celebrating for this, because we know very well that it is a long way and that way we will certainly serve him properly. It is a common assumption that our country's productive model seems to have reached its limits. It takes brave steps, with bold decisions, which will enable the country to move to the value chain, to produce more complex products and services, to ensure a better place in international labour-sharing. The development law is one of the tools to achieve this vision of the country's development and results in specific investment support measures. However, it cannot be alone, due to the size of the investment and the number of jobs it creates - to change the fate of the country. It can, however, give a clear signal about the direction in which we want and must move. It should, of course, be combined with specific measures, for which there is already a government commitment, measures to simplify the authorisation of businesses and to modernise procedures at all levels, so as to effectively reduce bureaucracy, finally break this vicious cycle of multiple authorisations, which is a key corruption box. It can be said that the two previous development laws, Law 3299/2004 and Law 3908/2011, apart from having little effect on the structure of the economy - this is due to the absence of a clear target and vision for the future of the economy, and, moreover, self-criticisingly, the Chief of Civilian Anti-Population admitted that the laws that they voted themselves are unrealistic - also left about six and a half thousand unfinished investment projects and EUR 6.5 billion outstanding public obligations. In addition, the overwhelming percentages of subsidies were absorbed by few companies. Previous governments, on the altar of their clientele politics and the service of specific economic interests, have incorporated a huge number of projects into the two investment laws, without the necessary resources being provided. On the one hand, the investors who dared to invest were destroyed and, on the other hand, the banks were charged with serving investment projects that remained incomplete. It is also strange but also historically unscrupulous and insulting the memory of all of us when New Democracy accuses SYRIZA of being against entrepreneurship. Really, dear friends, who has been due to the greatest disinvestment ever made in a European country in the last decade? This catastrophic reality in the most tragic way confirms your view - a position on development, which was unfortunately unimportant, and which serves your own friends here as well. A great example of this so-called development policy of the old political system is the Evia Prefecture, which in the last fifteen years has experienced the biggest deindustrialisation. Almost all factories are closed and in important sectors, cement, mining, white meat. It has a road network which has remained the same since the 1960s, resulting in sixty km distances in some cases even in two hours, which has contributed to the deindustrialisation of the county. No investment has been supported in the tourism sector or in the healing sector, with an example of abandoning the most famous tourist destination, which is Essex. Are you proud of this development policy? That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the effort for the country's economic recovery is a national responsibility for all of us. Antipolitics, and especially Acoustic Antipolitics, must be aware that this field is not suitable for sterile, monotonous repetitive coronaries. It would be very useful to contribute to the dialogue constructively with ideas and proposals. On the contrary, it shows the poverty of their arguments and the lack of a plan for the development of the country, which shows the past. With the new development law under discussion, one of its main objectives is the integration of investment projects carried out on remote islands, the main burden of the refugee flows, with a view to boosting local economies and societies. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President. There is also a tax exemption for up to 15 years and until the amount of the envisaged State aid has been exhausted. Incentives are being made to create new jobs to cover wage costs. Synergies and networking between enterprises and sectors are encouraged to achieve climate economies. Generally speaking, the industries of technology, information and communication and the agri-food chain are supported from the field to tourism. The new law responds to a stable demand from the business world for a stable fiscal framework. Thus, it provides stable tax rates for twelve years in large investment projects, over 20 million euros. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to refer to a motto of 'caramella' used by the Opposition, concerning able and incapable of ruling. If the ability is in the more than forty years that you have been in power alternately to bring the country into such a situation, characterising it as the greatest economic and humanitarian crisis it has ever experienced, if the capacity is the structure of the state as you have handed it over, and of course you too at every opportunity, that, in order to be able to stand, brave reforms are needed, which you have not done in these forty years, if the ability is the strongest state-of-the-allocation, media, contractors, etc., then, our friends, neither do we want nor do we want to give it to you. However, what we do not give you is the future of this people, for which through the unprecedented, difficult budgetary situations we are living for, we will give ourselves our best, to succeed and to make sure that we succeed, because we have neither strange commitments nor strange weights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u197	Madam President, could I ask you a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u198	What do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u199	Minister, at some point, after the process is over, we would like to know what changes and legislative improvements you will make.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u200	You'll have them in a while.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u201	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u202	Mr Stoyannides has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u203	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the new development law proposed by the government. I come from Eastern Macedonia and Thrace. The local residents, in particular, of the Xanthi and Rhodope Prefectures, know very well what remains of the previous development laws. In the industrial regions of these prefectures, there are, for the most part, shells of businesses. The citizens of this region are asking for new investments, with decent working conditions and remuneration, in investors who intend to invest and stay in the region rather than to make 'past' as was the case in the past. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill comes to succeed the two previous development laws that our country had, Law 3299/2004 and Law 3908/2011. What for? Because, unfortunately, they failed. The current President of the New Democracy, too, has confessed to it today, from this one on the Step. And, firstly, they failed because of their insignificant contribution to the economy. They were characterized by a high concentration of grants. Almost half of the money was divided into 5% of the investment projects. 4.2% of investment projects received 43.6% of total aid. By Law 3908/2011 two branches were strengthened. The energy, PV and tourism had 46.5% of the investment projects and 72.2% of the budget. There were a large number of projects in the two investment laws without the necessary resources being provided. Secondly, because of their insignificant contribution to employment. Law 3908/2011 created only six thousand jobs and only four jobs per investment. Thirdly, previous investment laws were targeted and operated as liquidity mechanisms. This is the big difference with the proposed bill. For the first time an investment development law is targeted and is a tool for achieving the country's development planning. For the first time an investment law seeks to create innovative, extroverted, dynamic and sustainable enterprises, to increase employment, with emphasis on human resources, to strengthen partnerships, cooperatives, social economy, support for small and medium-sized enterprises, re-industrialisation of the country. It's a spatial dimension. It uses, in addition to grants, strong fiscal incentives and so-called new back-back financial instruments. These are also made through specific provisions, which are not a wish, but are directed towards the economy. It sets the level of aid which an investment project can receive in order to achieve the dispersion of the benefits of State aid. It creates specific categories of aid, firstly, based on performance, extroversion, innovation, mergers, increased employment, high added value. And secondly, on the basis of the region, the less favoured areas, those with a population reduction, islands, mountainous, border regions, industrial areas, innovation areas and areas with particularly increased migratory flows are being supported. Clear definitions are also given for these sub-criteria, which characterise an area as special. Determines what to say in a mountainous area, a border area, an island region, a region with a population reduction. The Act specialises in eight individual aid schemes with different objectives: 1. Computer equipment aid, 2. General entrepreneurship, 3. New independent small and medium-sized enterprises, 4. Innovative investments for small and medium-sized enterprises, 5. Business clusters - clubs, 6. Intermediate financial institutions - equity funds, 7. Integrated spatial and sectoral plans and 8. Big investment. The law enables all sectors to develop, but particularly turns its gaze into two branches, technology - information and communication and the agri-food chain, from the field to tourism. In these sectors Greece can structure brand name and thus change its position on the global map. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President. I'm done. The previous laws were also in the process. The Register of Certified Evaluators and Auditors is hereby established. This will include two hundred qualified economists, engineers, who will take over controls and do not take EUR 25 for control, but about EUR 500, which will of course be paid by investors, not by the state budget. In conclusion, I would like to say that these are the differences in this law with regard to the past investment initiatives, which have admittedly failed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, too. Mrs Antoniou from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today the new development law, which is also in the sense of the Left, the clandestineness and the upbringing, a development law which provides that growth will come with the Ministers' orders, having reached the present in the private sector at 6.5 billion, at the same time that the cleaners in the Dromokaterio are not paid either, at the same time as the SYRIZA - ANEL collapsing in a year and a half has more than doubled the public debt to private individuals, to get out of the surplus of the evaluation, when the amount of the evaluation will go to the repayment of the public debt, but also to the repayment of the private debt - it says - though it is all coming, since the second assessment is ahead, and when the money of the NRP has been paid to anyone who talks about it, to cure any disease, at the time you are impoverishing the world, perhaps, because, because it is true that you have been drowned in your dreams. You come and promise money for private investment with the law we are discussing today. The Minister is not here, but, if he was here, I would like to ask him about the Juncker package, because we hear that the country's regional airports that were not privatised in the 'FRAPORT' are on the Junker package. So, looking for for forty-two projects. I don't see that. All I see, Minister, is that they are part of the supreme, what you have done, in the ninety years, of public property. Let's go back to the bill. It is a law that comes late, after you have lost over a year with so-called negotiations, referendums, elections, which has no money, because it does not have more than EUR 70 million a year, in an environment of economic suffocation, with limited liquidity and the prerequisites for the next assessment also being ahead, which increases the bureaucracy of previous laws, with a large, unlimited number of ministerial decisions and signatures, which actually create additional obstacles to entrepreneurship, which eliminates advances and, at the same time, is unclear as to the repayment of the investment. These are, in the middle of a zero liquidity. Capital control to remind you. By the way, in fifteen days you make the birthday of Capital Controls. To wish from the depths of my heart not to incite them, as you do with the superstition. It is a law punishing those who have invested under previous development laws and those who have already started their business plans, based on what the Minister said. Who, then, expects to trust you after all this - is deserving of wonder! - in the midst of fractions and of the privatization ministers, who first sign and then claim to have committed something criminal and unconstitutional, but of course remain in their positions. It is obvious that the development law leaves you insanely indifferent, ladies and gentlemen. It is true: What does the Left have to do with entrepreneurship and the private sector? Another law is of interest to you, and that's the election. After the script of the Dual Resurrection of Easter unraveled, and after the scenario of the new day of stability and resentment does not seem to work, now that the citizens are beginning to feel in their pocket the cost of the SYRIZA - ANEL government, throw the ball on the platform, with scenarios for the electoral law, which, apart from the acceptance of imminent defeat, actually exacerbate instability. But you don't care. Your objective is double, namely, that people should be disorientated and managed to pass a electoral law which may give more seats to the second party, since you know that the next elections will be lost. The way you're going, you're not even second. But all you care about is the chair. That is why you are so disturbed by today's 'Resign' gathering, which you have almost forbidden. I wonder your left conscience didn't lead you to do it. I know that there are still people who are negatively opposed to the parties of the previous governments. But the payment time of Alexis Tsipras began. You may live one more delusion, but society already suffers the first consequences of what you have since voted on. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Still in front of you are the hardships of labour, trade union law, IPTO and many more. These are the real buttons of Alexina. The state-of-the-art catapult you took won't save you. No matter how tight you hold the arms from the chairs, you should at most be in your hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u206	Mrs Vaki has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the new investment law is coming to create conditions of relaunching the real economy, in terms of social recompense and particularly aimed at creating new and stable jobs. It is precisely this change of direction that is also its main difference from previous contexts. In this new institutional structure, we move away from the logic of pharaonic investments. We are away from investment in sectors that do not produce new jobs, and above all we are looking for the reorientation of the productive base of the economy, taking into account the strategic advantages of our country, which are not other than the high level of human resources and the unstable potential of primary production, together with rational tourist development. In these very specific directions, the new development law introduces substantial innovations. For the first time, limits have been set in relation to the strengthening of very large investments. Unlike the past, where the overwhelming percentage of subsidies went to very few large investments, in this bill small and micro-enterprises will be the key factors in private entrepreneurship. At the same time, the collaborative economy is being strengthened in all its manifestations. Enterprises that will receive special support are those enterprises that are active in the wider field of cooperation. Cooperatives, social cooperatives and business associations are able to participate in development and give it social recompense. Ladies and gentlemen, the new development law sets a horizontal objective that is spread across all areas of entrepreneurship. The aim is clear. The economy has to produce again. The agri-food sector must be strengthened and, at the same time, exploited the human resources of the country. The new entrepreneurship support framework is not purely based on the logic of the subsidy, as was largely the case in the past. If you look at the statistics of previous development laws, you see that in order to create a job, you had to realise on average about EUR 1 million of investment expenditure. This was, quite simply, because previous development laws strengthened monstrous investments in very specific areas. wind parks, photovoltaic, huge hotel units are the most characteristic examples. In other words, they were investments which absorbed very large amounts of subsidies, without providing the corresponding social and economic remuneration. Today this logic changes. The new law combines financial facilities for the start-up or expansion of a business with the viability of investment and the creation of jobs. Thus, companies that invest in stable and sustainable projects can also be supported through funding and tax exemptions and by subsidising the new jobs they create. At the same time, a number of important changes are introduced in this new context and in relation to the reduction of bureaucracy and in terms of resolving very important gaps in previous development laws. It is thus attempting to relaunch a series of investment projects in the past which, for various reasons, could not be completed in a timely manner. At the same time, a new framework is being introduced more flexible and faster than subjecting to the new law, particularly with regard to the control and assessment of the progress of investment. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that with this legislative initiative by the Government a new cycle for the country's economy is taking place. Support for sound investment effort, targeting small and medium-sized enterprises, social and economic co-operation are clearly the imprints of the left's government effort. These features lay the foundations for creating a new development model based on social returns, respect for the environment, protection of natural resources and the upgrading of the country's human resources. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We want to promote this and, despite the many and sufficient difficulties, we will be able to do so. As much as some cannot understand it yet, we are telling the citizens that we will move on, that the Left can give dynamic answers and that our model, even under great pressure, has - and will continue to have - at its centre of man, social progress and protection of labour and social goods. With this compass, we'll keep going. With these principles we will continue to exercise the country's governance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, too. Will you take the floor, Mr. Kammenos, or should Mr. Fokas speak from the Centron Association? What do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u209	I don't mind, Madam President. Let Mr. Focas speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u210	Come on, Mr. Fokas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u211	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as I have pointed out in my speech to the co-legislative committees, the adoption of a new development law must be a reference point for the relaunch of the Greek economy. Of course, the law that came to the vote is not perfect. For example, maintaining the 29% rate for a 12-year period for investments over 20 million euros is being baptized. Obviously, you realise that only as an incentive can this be considered when our neighbouring countries offer generous tax exemptions with even 5% rates. We cannot, however, ignore the fact that the new development law also brings together some positive features which can, improved, offer an equal and balanced distribution of development. It is obvious that it is necessary to use and activate all investment support tools immediately, but, above all, to combat the pathogenesis that has taken place for decades in the Greek state and put the brake on every serious investment in this place. Now is the time to make the Greek economy sustainable again with the real and substantial support of the private sector. Because we must all understand that only the private sector can take the cart out of the mud and with brave decisions showing the clear intention of the government to help private individuals. I have tabled an amendment to set aside both public and private requirements. If this amendment is voted in favour at some point, there is a consistent demand from the operators who are called upon to be consistent with their tax obligations when the public authorities owe them large sums. The legislation on the extension to the entire public sector of the possibility of offsetting tax debts and claims between individuals and public authorities is pending from August 2013. I would remind you that the paper and electronic press had been overwhelmed by publications on total clearing of debts and claims between individuals and public authorities by legislative intervention that would be promoted by the Ministry of Finance. The provision we are proposing today therefore amends Law 3943/2011 and extends the netting of debts and claims between individuals and public authorities from the narrow public sector to all general government bodies and bodies. This will reduce the public sector’s overdue liabilities to the private sector and give a large cash back to the enterprises. Only with moves, like her, will she be able to take the business back to Greece. At the same time, there is also a promise from the current government. At a meeting held in Athens on December 2nd with actors and MPs from Thrace, the Minister of Economy, George Stathakis, said that OAED does not have the money to give businesses the 12% payroll subsidies due to them for the six-year period 2010-2015. Mr Stathakis has only left the state's debts cleared to businesses with debts to the public or insurance funds. This amendment also gives a message to investors wishing to make use of the beneficial provisions of the new development law that we are debating. Entrepreneurs want to know that the state keeps up, that they will take all the subsidies provided for by the new development law, even if the country's governance is changed ten times. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the voice of reason will be heard and that we can prove by means of acts that we are standing on the side of individuals who need an ally and not an enemy state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u212	Mr Kammenos has the floor for 15 minutes now. Mr. Kammenos, the sooner, the better. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u213	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'll try to be as comprehensive as I can and I'll be allowed. Because nowadays a lot has been said in the committees and in the House, and almost all of them have spoken, and the ministers responsible and the Deputy Minister, Mr Haritsis, but also the Minister, Mr Stathakis, will take your leave to read some things. I have gathered here about twenty pages about the destruction of Greece from the Community Support Frameworks. This is where the money went, what we did not absorb, how many times we were controlled, and why we were asked why we did not absorb the funds we needed, why we did not absorb the funds of competitiveness and absorb the funds on the roads by 37% and where the money went. They kept doing all the time with us. Of course, when you are controlled by the Germans, whether they be Finland or Belgium, and does not force you to carry out the work and does not control you in practice because you do not do the work you take the money - for which the Greek people and the European taxpayers have bleededed - he also has a huge responsibility. In the brief speech I am going to make, I will deal mainly with this issue because it is very - very important. The failures. First of all, the money that has come to Greece and has not been properly exploited - because history shows it and what we are living today and the Greek citizens know it much better than I - it has exceeded 80 billion euros or about 78 billion euros, all of the Community's support frameworks. "Sufficient 75%" is a title. The breakdown of the Commission's social budget for the period 2000-2003 with information entered by 15 May 2003. According to the text, Greece was among the five states with the largest predictions and absorption failures with a 75% discrepancy. Published by the newspaper "NATIONOS" on 6 May 2003 on the same subject: Europe's funds do not reach the citizen. High-level civil servants do not have the know-how to help stakeholders. The gap covers private companies that affect decision-makers. No help from the banks that have completely failed to manage the programs of the Ministry of Development. Revenue collapse. In 2003, Mr Simitis convened an urgent meeting at the Maximos Concert Hall on the bad course of the third CSF in previous years, because billions of euros had already been eaten or lost, except for the 531 million euro from the second CSF, which had just become known. The meeting was given an opportunity. What's next? In November 2003, according to Europe's mid-term evaluation report by a consultancy company run by a well-known executive, Mr Kandalapa, of the twenty-four operational programmes of the third CSF, only the road programme had a absorption of 37%, while the programmes that could make a decisive contribution to the development of the country and improve the living standards of the people were delaying. In competitiveness we had 8% absorption in the 'information society' we had 8% absorption and health and welfare we had 7% absorption. ‘Complete indifference in processing’ means the following title. All the money, as we see, went almost 40% on roads and nothing on competitiveness, nothing on processing and nothing on the agricultural side. The total Greek CSF, the productive environment absorbed only 22% of the total resources, while Spain in this absorption was 22%, Italy absorbed 48.5% in order to develop the south in the processing of agricultural products. Absorption in the health and welfare sectors at 10%, "Information Society" 16% - not to continue - Western Greece 12%, northern Aegean and Epirus 13% - these are official figures from the exhibitions - central Macedonia 19%, Ionian Region 17%. The total absorption of 24% was announced on 15 May 2004. In September 2004, Greece's net earnings were EUR 3.1 billion, lower by EUR 1 billion compared to 2001 because - as the report said - the delay in submission of programmes CIs. Smart, creative accounting has continued. What did we do? I would remind you that - I was not in Greece in those years - the Simitis government managed in an excellent and highly creative way to advance the revenues of the CSF, five, ten and nineteen years, Minister. He chose the money of FIR Athens, the proceeds we had from the FIR Athens FIR, the revenues of the third CSF, the EUROCONTROL, and the revenues of the state lotteries. This has cost us many billions of euros. After all, the issue of the SWAPs of debt we'll pay for it by 2037. The absorption of the ETAN Competitiveness Fund, which had a date of accession in 2002, was 6% absorbency in 2004. Watch out. Strengthening the productive capacity of the economy in order to improve their competitiveness, as a whole, the Competitiveness and Entrepreneurship Programme in April 2004 only touched 15%. In other words, we did not get 85% of the money earmarked in two years for the competitiveness of the economy. We didn't do anything. I'll keep reading a list of shame. Because we are not going to say what good we do now. It'll be the story. This month will show. I hope that the democratic outcome of the Kingdom of Great Britain will be good for both these people and us in Europe. Or we can all live together or, if they decide, get out. Whatever the people decides democratically. However, the next day for us here will have to do with a crisis management possibly of Brexit, which will be European as a whole. But if this is not done, we only have to manage good facts and we should all manage them together. And I'll hang up with this. I will read to you detailed information registered on 15 May 2004 concerning absorptions in operational programmes. Education and initial vocational training: Access for women to the labour market, 1% absorption. Development and promotion of entrepreneurship, 8%. Promotion and improvement of vocational training, 4%. Roads, ports, urban development: Thessaloniki Metro, zero. Other axes, 9%. Navigation safety, 3%. Road safety, 9%. Railways, urban transport, airports: OSE, 3%. Improvement and modernisation of installations, 9%. We didn't get anything for all this. It's been 15 years. Road safety and technical assistance, 3%. Today the Greek economy and the government of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks are judged to be uncompetitive programmes and legislation. Watch out. Competitiveness: Improving the competitive climate, 5% absorption. Differentiation of the tourist product, 9%. Energy supply safety 4%. Energy and sustainable development, green growth, 6%. Human resources, 9%. Rural development: Improving support mechanisms and informing the rural population, zero. Agricultural products interventions, 4%. Rural development programme, 3%. Fishing, other measures, zero. Renewal and modernisation of fishing fleets, 11%. Environment: aquatic environment, 3%. Neither the environment! Solid waste, 3%. Atmospheric environment, 6%. Institutions, environmental awareness, 5.62%. Spatial planning, town planning, replications, 6%. Culture: Development of modern culture, 6%. Health: Psychic health, 8%. Welfare, 7%. Information society: Communication, 1%. Nor communication infrastructure. Citizen service, 7%. The numbers cause melancholy. It's all under 10%. The Commissioner responsible in 2002 found that half the projects have been carried out with double funds. It stopped financing the third CSF and Greece had to return 100 million of the second CSF. As emerged from the statements made by the then Minister and Commissioner Fisler between 2001 and 2003, Greece did not participate in any Community action to promote agricultural products. He was a philanthropist or a great liar, the Commissioner. A total of thirty projects on third country markets had been approved with Greece, totalling EUR 45 million, of which the European Union covered 50%. Letters for irregularities. You'll read. In 2006, we have first come to irregularities in a report that has been notified. Greece has received, this is in line with a report proposed in 2009, unexploitedly 1,15 billion. Greece had received 68.5% of the funds corresponding to 2.5 billion, when other countries that started four years after us, such as Estonia and Slovakia, had exceeded 77%. I'm going to file all this information on the Minutes. I've had enough trouble. It is good to read them - not us, to make a memorial service or a funeral - the Vice-Presidents of the Opposition, and even the new Vice-Presidents of the Opposition, such as the gentlemen of the River or the Central Union. Because when we go out and easily we judge what a government does, to have just earned television time, to 'grow' the word, that is, to make it politically cheap, without any argument, but on generic grounds, we have to read this. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Since everyone read this information and say that Mr Kammenos was a very great liar in his report as a Parliamentary representative, I will accept it, we will discuss on staff that I came and recommended great lies. But if I did say so, we should come and see whether or not there were responsibilities policies that Greece has arrived here today. I can prove it within thirty pages how Greece arrived, when it lost 60% - 70% of the funds or went wrong to private individuals, as I say, because we did not have worthy officials in the public sector. And this government, which, at the same time as it can be with the institutions ten hours and negotiate, has to produce work, think, write, produce organograms, produce work, solve problems of everyday life, in all the difficulties of Europe's environment, together with this month and with the danger - I say the danger - of Brexit? We have to deal with this whole mess. And we come here today and say that this development law is something that is stubborn, slow and slow? Is she retarded? Will you allow me to say 'delayed political' - is the opposition, which has not been looked at in the mirror to apologise? To say, 'I managed all these billions' - as the reports say, not me - 'with incompetent people. I gave the job to the private. I promised politically I'd do anything. I didn't do anything. I did not bring competitiveness." Because the reports said that we were giving money to arsenals - not even 100% - and not to competitiveness, not to processing, not to the farmer, not to fishing. And now we're going to exalt the system, which at the moment must have solid bases and pillars. And first God, after Brexit, will come and the time will come to alleviate especially business and natural persons from capital controls. Because there are discussions these days. And it will also happen - take it, as I tell you - it will soon be done. New money will flow into the banks. There'll be motive. That is why I would like to see this development law at the end of the day as an honest, transparent text. There are no written texts in the world that have no problems. That's why lawyers know better than me that, if there's a written contract, it's the best thing for anyone to sit, work, read it and go to court. When we say something oral, we can say what we want. A written text accepts and accepts criticism and does well. That is why it is a written text and it is publicly tabled in consultation and how much more is being discussed - word, line - line, party - a week in this process in the Greek Parliament. All the new tools are being discussed, innovation, to turn people back. In order to come back, we must do what the previous ministers have said and I do not want to repeat them. There's a macroeconomic stability, there's a motive. The motive for a young man is not to go home and continue to drink coffee, or go on vacation. Foreigners say it on their own: "One hour in Greece with snow and rain is better than half an hour or ten minutes in my country." But that's another piece. It can be about tourism and other parts of the economy. When we want to develop the economy, we need to bring innovation. Today we are talking about the qualifications that will bear the fourth industrial revolution, as we have studied and written in international papers, are very different from the qualifications of people who were twenty years ago or five years ago. Because now people need to be close to the new technology, the hybrid systems, the data mining, to be close to the new technology, to be able to live in a group environment and whoever has talent, to lead in a group environment. This is the first element in the skills, in the skills a man has to have to go ahead of the fourth industrial revolution. That's all written down. We must not only read them, we must motivate investors, who together with the state will help create new jobs and in the new jobs we will create small groups of people, bring the scientific minds back and be part of the fourth industrial revolution. We must not be the tail or the middle. The head can't be. But we have to be inside the body. We have to be inside the artery. Only in this way will investors return, they will influencing money into the banks, the money will decrease the deposit gap, loans, which is available from ELA, to redeem the system, to put money into the market. But there's a demand. Money could be there. No one could ask for money. Why would he ask for money, if there is no stable economic environment, if there is no law - boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo? We must protect the investor and the employee, and that is the work of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mr. Cammene. Mr Vlachos has the floor from the New Democracy. As long as we can keep up the time, because there are too many speakers and we have said that we will close.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the market with great anxiety has awaited the new development law. That's why, with his statement, a lot of people said good-looking late than never. Unfortunately, this assessment quickly evolved to better than nothing, because in fact, one year after the government announcements and two years actually without development law, you finally managed to present us with your proposal, the proposal for development, and how it can be achieved. Obviously, all of this time you have been trying to figure out how to overcome your ideological tangles about private initiative and not how to formulate an integrated, convincing proposal. The development, Mr Ministers, gentlemen of the Couple, presupposes a specific plan, programming, in order to make the market feel that something is changing and that it can really count on a re-start. But you do not really believe in development through the private initiative and this is reflected in your actions. On the one hand, you use or sell - as you wish, say - the Greek and on the other, you come out with tears. On the one hand, you sign the concession agreement for the use of regional airports and on the other, the ministers come out and openly disagree with this option. On the one hand, you are signing the privatisation of the port of Piraeus and on the other hand, the Minister says that the sale of the port is done to satisfy the lenders rather than the development of the port. These can't go together. They don't match. And that is your great dilemma, to which you must make your choice, because that really is not a serious policy, so growth will certainly not come. Who's to believe what you say every time? Today you are bringing a bill that will become law for communications and you are interested in how to create impressions rather than believe in its effectiveness. You are talking, for example, about taking off growth until 2020-22, when for this year you have not estimated any money for investments, that is another year lost. You are talking about growth, when you plan to get on the market around EUR 500 million, while public debts are about EUR 7 billion and are constantly growing. Really, the rest of the money provided by law, where will it come from? Can you tell us when and how to strengthen a insured business market, which is suffocating and looking for funds due to a lack of equity and bank funding? What multiplier benefit will they have for the economy? You say the law is friendly and made for small and medium-sized enterprises. Today we hear curses on large investments, pharaonic investments in the past. Which small and medium-sized enterprises are you talking about? For those who raise incredibly financial burdens because of your policy? Finally, you must understand that, if taxation is not reduced and firms are not motivated, investment will not be made. Without investment there can be no growth, there can be no decline in unemployment. In this draft law you limit the rate of aid and the rate of financing that the beneficiary may receive. Why are you doing this? Is it because the law does not have the necessary money? We must remind you here that very simply development without funds cannot be done. You understand that this is how you significantly reduce the beneficiaries and harm the investments. Regarding dealing with the investment plans of the previous two development laws, instead of correcting the omissions they have presented and giving solutions, you are almost here today to punish these investors. You forecast for seven years the profitability of each operation. Of course, it is good that this has been limited to one and, indeed, it is worth pointing out. However, you continue to expect the grant of the investment projects to be paid in seven annual instalments, causing financial suffocation to the investors who are already waiting for some liquidity years. Also, how can you talk about growth when you at the same time increase bureaucracy? Ladies and gentlemen, for us in the New Democracy the concept of development is inextricably linked to the country's exit from the crisis. They need investments, they need liquidity in a powerful, armored banking system. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. We believe that the recipe for the country returning to growth is the turn to entrepreneurship, within a stable tax system, with fair rates and incentives, as well as the simplification of licensing procedures and the reduction of bureaucracy. That's our big difference. You are a government that hosts entrepreneurship, which does not believe in reforms, so you cannot support them either. With this bill, you are once again making promises, without something about development, without something about the reformist boosting the market. This law will certainly enable you to speak of a new development law, which will have nothing to do with reality. Sounds good, as all the hollow words sound. For all those who waited for the bill, to make use of its arrangements, to boost their jobs, to seize an opportunity, to reduce their difficulties, to take a breath, it is a great disappointment. It would be more honest from the outset to say that "we can't" or "so much we can" without celebrations and great words. Let everyone know what they're waiting for. In this bill, we cannot consent. It is sad to say, because we are talking about development law, but this particular bill does not allow us to participate in your own promises, in your exaggerations, in creating fruitful hopes for the people who have great anxiety, for the people of the market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u216	Mr Igoumenides has the floor from SYRIZA and then Mr Vardakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, both the President of the New Democracy a moment ago and several of the speakers of the major Opposition have brought back the issue of the law that we recently voted on and the difference we have in the budgetary policy mix. They referred to the question of whether fiscal measures of 1.8 billion should be taken through taxes, as we have voted on, or through a reduction in government spending, through less-state, covering behind these thick and large words new wage cuts and new redundancies. However, I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that our difference with the New Democracy is not limited to the mix of budgetary policy. It starts from farther away and if you want it pulls even longer. One is the question that I think is embodied in this difference. What country did we receive from the former New Democracy - PASOK government? We received a country that has lost 25% of GDP, a country where wages fell by at least 40%, a country with one and a half million unemployed and two and a half million uninsured. Describing this image, we Left are talking about a broken country. The right for the same image refers to an investment magnet. Here's exactly our difference. This is where the different perception seems. If you want, this different concept is where we're pulling. In the same word, the "development", the well-appointed development if you like, in this famous Greek word, we describe two of the opposite things. We want growth to rely on the ruins and the social destruction left by the former governments behind them - and therefore, to rely on further wage reductions, an increase in the number of unemployed, namely to secure even cheaper labour - or do we want growth to rely on the human potential, the real wealth of this country, this society - let us not forget one on the two - is an EHS graduate - by strengthening its value, rather than awkwardly following its departure abroad? Do we want growth to be based on the monopolistic support of specific investments and investors, or do we want to distribute in a socially fair and efficient way the available tools and resources available to the reconstruction and industrialisation of the country? Do we want the State viewer of the destruction of small and medium-sized enterprises, spectators of our daily lives, or do we want the state of arrow to strengthen the efforts of the small and medium-sized enterprises to upgrade its services and to highlight its advantages? If, in the end, we want to see growth based on low labour costs, low tax rates, relaxation of environmental and other conditions, relaxation, as the Minister here said, of the Step, based on everything that is exclusively on privatisation, or do we want to see growth based on the high added value, the existing high-level potential of our country, respect for the environment, the comparative advantages that the country has in tourism, shipping, as well as other sectors? You realize that the Left's answers to the question are completely different. The Left's responses to this question also go through this development law. It is a law that moves around youth, new entrepreneurship, small and medium-sized enterprises, either alone or in synergy with others. It has a peak both sectoral and regional. It values scientific staff and aims to increase added value. Finally, with a axis - guide to getting out of the crisis in a sustainable and socially fair way, it moves towards dispersal of the benefit from growth in fair distribution across all the social groups. In this sense, in fact, the critics of the draft law brought about by the government have in a certain sense been right. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. Indeed, Mr Mitsotakis, if you are looking for 45% of investment projects in this draft law, you will not see it. In this sense, yes, it's an empty shirt. If you're looking for, Mrs. Kefaliannis, to see three businesses, like in all previous laws, take out 200 million each, in fact, you won't see it. It's a drop in the ocean. There's not even that drop. Or if you are looking for a policy, Mr Theocharis, with no money - the Minister answered you from this step before, so as not to stand in detail - it is indeed anti-development law. In conclusion, Madam President, despite the fact that much remains to be said - many 'Cassandras' have gone through this step in order to share the future disaster. I believe, ladies and gentlemen - and I conclude with this - that it is up to us to put - and I believe that we will put an end to the vicious cycle of recession, in our hand is to move forward - and move forward - to the exit of our economy and our country from the crisis. For a walk with a social sign and a left footprint, we leave you, ladies and gentlemen, in your platoon, to leave you, Mrs Anthony, to wish for our failure. We're moving on without you. We're moving on with society and living social forces. We are going forward, and unfortunately for you, and thankfully for our people, we will succeed! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u218	Mr Vardakis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the past development laws have certainly suffered. They ran into their structure. That is why they did not produce any beneficial and effective results. They were characterized by a lack of vision of the future of the economy, which is why they had little effect on its structure. Even their target was wrong, since no emphasis was placed on the primary sector, industry and the country's productive tissue. No emphasis has been placed on the creation of sustainable jobs. Small and medium-sized enterprises have been ignored and large-scale investors have been scandalally favoured. 5% of investment shared about half of the subsidies. On the altar of the vote, the service of economic interests was a huge number of projects in the two investment laws, without the necessary resources being provided. You have created expectations of growth without a reflection. The result was the destruction of many businessmen who dared to invest and the burden of banks by serving investment projects that were left unfinished. You said you relaunched the economy and created primary surpluses. So, let me tell you what the primary surpluses you said you had and delivered them to us: public debts to private individuals 5.5 to 7 billion, 1.50 000 unemployed, 28% unemployment, 3.000 Greeks below the poverty line, 30% black and insecure work, unsustainable, unsustainable debt, first on a global level in the leak of new scientists in the period 2009-2014, two hundred thousand young scientists with a high level of education and significant specialisation and qualifications left the country. And all the big issues and problems hidden under the rug. You've booked two hundred and sixty thousand operations. May I remind you what you were saying about Greek merchants? That they're counterproductive. You have repeated this many times and the foreign groups to whom you handed over the trade have had a party. It's a unique phenomenon of total poverty. The government of SYRIZA, however, you know - this is the "caramella" one year now - has broken down, destroyed the country in 2015: And all the "individuals" who have come from virginity, who are not parties, but are on the main party committees, are organizing rallys with the slogan "Resign!". Welcome! You have created a prospect of deindustrialisation of the country and you have taken 'excellent'. After creating social ruins, you established development laws. There are currently some six thousand, three hundred investment projects pending, with a debt of 6.4 billion. Of these 2.2 is with a compatible debt and 2.4 billion appear as non-active. Therefore, the actual debts are estimated at around 3.1 billion. You have dissolved the country's productive tissue, targeting the Greeks, as you said then - remember - "they were corrupt and counterproductive and live with subsidies and poorly lived with subsidies". That's what you were saying. And you have the courage to insinuate even now and today in Parliament's plenary that we have delayed bringing development law. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now creating the prospects for development law to work for the real economy, to create leverage, to support healthy productive forces, to improve competitiveness in areas of high added value and to create new jobs for the benefit of society as a whole, inclusive, without voting and clientele relations. There is a new development law, for which we must recognise that it is being drawn up in a truly critical, six-year-old economic crisis, a 25% reduction in GDP, limited liquidity in the economy, and that, despite the critical juncture, will lead the country - we are sure of it - and the economy in the years to come in a new model of productive reconstruction and development, because it introduces a series of innovations that are essentially a cut-off and for which it is attempting to relaunch the country's economic development. The new development plan is part of the government's strategy for exiting the economy from the crisis and includes new financial instruments to create an entrepreneurial environment, reducing bureaucracy and establishing business services centres. It is characterised by a clear target, a promotion of territorial cohesion and balanced development through the strengthening of less developed regions. We know very well that development law cannot alone save the country and change its course overnight. Of course, however, it can give a clear signal of the direction in which we want to move and it is a crucial tool for achieving the country's development planning, exiting the crisis, but also for engraving a sustainable, competitive and fair development model. I hope you now understand what development law was a 'empty shirt', as Mr Mitsotakis said, and what development law will give breath to this place, taking him out of the great deadlocks that you led him to in previous years, ladies and gentlemen of the Anti-Population. Mr Mitsotakis said a great truth this morning in his speech that we are not the same. I personally thank him, because he finally accepted the self-evident fact that we are not the same, because we did not fire, because we did not create a client state, because we did not recruit strikers, because we did not create a prospect of poorening the Greek people, because we did not destroy the social fabric of the country. That is why we are not the same, Mr Mitsotakis. And finally, if you want, consider your responsibilities and stop this Step playing theatre. The curtain for you has fallen for a long time and unfortunately you do not understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u220	Thank you. Mr Rabbit has the floor to complete his speech. Mr. Rabbit, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, we heard the Chief of the New Democracy a few hours ago denouncing from this Step forward the government, saying that it does not respect democracy, that it is not infringing the laws, that it is not in the way that a government should behave to the Greek Parliament. He's right about what he's saying, he's absolutely right. This is how the SYRIZA - ANEL government treats her, because she was a very good student, seeing what New Democracy and PASOK did. So I'm going to ask a very simple question to Mr. Mitsotakis. When his party along with PASOK and the other parties of the Greek Parliament put innocent Greek MPs in prison and the leader of the third political force, was that democratic? Did they respect democracy then? These are so that we do not forget and remember very well what each one has done. He also dared to refer to manipulation of justice, when the place has plunged from videos saying that what had happened then at the expense of the Golden Dawn was from Samaras and from a circle around him, Athanasios, Tree, Borides. That was the group with specific names. If there was Greek justice, if there were a Greek state, these people would have to answer and punish for what they have done. That's why New Democracy would do better not to talk about such things. Indeed, it is a very recent example of the Vice President of Parliament, Nikita Kaklamanis, who in an interview three days ago said "it was our mistake how we handled the case and arrested them in prison". They admit it directly, "we took them to prison". He was still telling the journalist: "If you have a well-known lawyer, he will tell you that if this case develops smoothly and there is a proper trial, no one will be punished." So the New Democracy must not talk about such things. He should be ashamed of himself hiding. I would also like to refer to an event that took place today and was very important. It won't be heard from anywhere else, but it must only be heard from us. A Greek policeman, Dimitris Andreakos, five years ago, had arrived from the College of Greek Police, not because he had committed an irregularity, not because he had abused money, not because he had exploited his rank, on the contrary had been shot and was decorated. He had arrived from the Greek Police because - to his credit - he had not accepted to take his "citizen's card", these new cards you now bring into force, to unpack each Greek. He had refused in the name of his religious belief. He had refused why he directly stated that he was a Greek Christian who didn't want to take this card and be unpacked. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This man has been persecuted for a period of five years and has finally been sentenced to a perfect degree. This was thanks to the stubbornness of the same and the struggle that the Golden Dawn did. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] So what we want to tell the Greek citizens is not to be afraid. The establishment that exists is battered. This structure cannot be supported. So we see some people who have faith and are fighting, destroying day after day this monster who wants to rule our homeland. So this is for the heroic policeman, Dimitris Andreaco, who won this case - I repeat - thanks to the help of the Golden Dawn. Finally, because he is the Minister here - because yesterday he was not, but he would have been informed - I mean the following. You who want to help and develop very much the place and create new jobs have excluded the shipbuilding sector from this bill. It is unacceptable that the ship repair zone of Perama, Elefsina, Scaramaga and Syros cannot function. Here's Rhodes, behold, and fuck! If you accept this amendment, we will immediately give work to many of our Greek fellow citizens. You dare and do it. I shall conclude, Madam President. It is really unacceptable that the "POSEDIAN" that took place a few days ago were Turkish and Portuguese and took all the jobs. Because in Greece there are no specifications for the ships to come and work. In fact, with courage we are told that Greek shipowners account for 80% of the clientele, mainly because of the proximity and because the Turkish shipbuilding industry has improved very much. That's what your Turkish friends do, that's what the Portuguese do and you don't do! As Golden Dawn we have requested a roll-call vote, which includes this article, to see which of you will refuse to have growth and to create new jobs in the paving-up zone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u222	Mr. Castore has the floor from SYRIZA for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u223	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak in political and social terms about the new development law, because I believe that this law has special political and social importance. He's bringing something new. He's bringing a new philosophy, but also a new look. It brings other priorities in the direction a development law must have. This law has quite a political and social sketch that can cause an allergic shock in Acoustic Opposition, but for its society and productive forces they are a vital breath to boost growth in a difficult time for our country. I will try to focus on some of the positive aspects of this law that I consider to be extremely important. The first element is that of social justice brought about by the law, because it is geared towards supporting many small and medium-sized enterprises and not to the few large and huge monopolistic enterprises. What had happened to previous development laws? The Minister told us and we saw it in the report. 4% of enterprises have received 46% of the funds and in the last 15 years few businesses have shared billions of euros. Six only took one billion, fifteen took one and a half billion and ninety-five companies took three billion euros. Thus, previous development laws have helped to further increase the inequality in our country and have, in turn, been the cause of the poor development of our economy in recent years. But there is now a limit on aid, the maximum amount of EUR 5 million for each project and EUR 20 million for a group of companies. We believe that this is how we are achieving the dispersion of more benefits from these State aids. Now, aid of EUR 155 million to a single person, as we have seen in the past, is not going to happen again. We have listened with great interest to Mrs Asimakopoulou both in the committees in the last few days, but also yesterday in the House of Parliament, who criticised the bill and to us because we are choosing investment plans and not all of us, and why we are trying to set priorities on the basis of a number of left-hand ideas. What are our ideas? It is primarily support for small and medium-sized enterprises rather than large enterprises. It is to strengthen job-creating investment. It is to strengthen investment that will create well-paid jobs rather than simply economic trends. Well, these are not ideologies, but they are a clear political choice for us. The development law we are debating today, as well as the development plan and the ESRB that will come, have the same fundamental principles: development on the basis of the real Greek human resources, emphasis on production, the fight against inequalities. The development we want must increase the employment of mainly skilled people, to keep new scientists out of the world. That is why we are strengthening innovation, research and development. We have a human potential of excellent quality, with which we can support a growth that is structured around the potential that our country objectively has and its comparative advantages. Furthermore, this development law, which defines the framework for private sector investment and other aid, does not seek to improve Greece's position in the global division of labour on the basis of either the cheapest labour costs or low taxation. Bangladesh, for example, has forty-two lower production costs than Greece and a hundred and twenty-five times lower labour costs than Switzerland, does not attract investment. In fact, Mr Vorides told us that three of the development plans, one of the Soviet type, the other which we are trying to implement, and the third of the New Democracy, which provides for low taxation and low labour costs. Since this third plan was government and you applied it, then why didn't you bring growth? Then why did you create a million and a half unemployed? Why did you reduce GDP by 25%? We place emphasis on production. I think that this law is going on bases to reindustrialize our country with the support of the collapse, but not of a deported Greek industry. We also want business outwards, business cooperation and, of course, we do all we can and help to get to the cooperatives and the social economy. Also, by finishing, I want to say this. Another very important part of the inequality you have created is what has to do with the way the money was shared by most of the development laws. Here in Greece we live and have seen them with our eyes. No longer giving aid to a company and then not even watching if the company created the jobs it promised and the money could have been found - mysteriously how - in Switzerland. That's the kind of development we want. This law is our own attempt in difficult times to give the Greek society the breath it needs, to have a fair growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u224	Mr Cavalellas has the floor from the Centron Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the development law that had been widely advertised came finally and we waited, after 13 months of delay. And I say the so-called developmentist, because there is a provision for financial resources of 480 million to be allocated for the next seven years. There is also a forecast, a expectation of sixteen thousand jobs. If that's growth, we've lost the measure. Mr. Stathakis had told us he would bring the development law in May 2015, then you promised to bring it to the end of the year. Then came the Prime Minister, he said in early 2016, then you said in March. Finally, it is coming now, with the result that the few planned investments will be transferred indefinitely, waiting for investors to come forward with your wise and development programme. How did you justify this inappropriateness? You told us - except that you loaded them to the right-wing, left-wing, etc. - that the delay is due to consultations, which, from the result - because the result will be judged - has been set out as untrue. You had called seventy bodies who believed there was some seriousness on the part of the government. Sixty proposals were sent. Then, if I remember correctly, some four hundred specific observations were sent. I am very surprised to see that the participation of these bodies was a pretext, that democracy and Parliament are supposed to be working. In fact, it was a great disappointment to me and to many. There were no corrective moves on your part. You were indifferent, you hardly included any change in this bill, perhaps because it was touching the perfection of this bill, or because the Troikas, who became a quartet at some point, did not let that happen. And if they were old blackmailers, the governments sold, what is happening today? And now they come in, recently, a few days ago. What did you learn from them? What are the changes that have been made? What are the amendments you have introduced? I hear wishes and supposedly innovative proposals. An innovative proposal is that anyone who invests from 20 million or more - and I laugh, because those who have 20 million to invest, will not come to Greece - will have a special tax regime. If anyone comes with 19.5 million, what happens? Not included. These are funny things written in the leg. Here we could say that the small and medium-sized ones - that is, the backbone of our economy - are those who need a stable tax system. Of course, for small and medium-sized enterprises, there is provision in your draft law in the first article on mergers between undertakings. You have them ready for dissolution. There are, therefore, only provisions for Croatians, who will of course move to China, Turkey, Bulgaria and the European Union, who will go to Great Britain and Cyprus. You're not legislating seriously. We have seen the last of the laws that you have passed on to foreign politicians and companies. It was a photographic case for the Mitsotakis family. You want to avenge yourself. So you just announced this important, wise bill, two cannons went off the market, the "PURSOS" and the "LEDRA" companies. I tell you this from experience: The tightening of the belt, the paralyzed economy. The increase in VAT to 24% will reduce revenues. You will also see it in 2016. In 2016, it probably runs in deficit. Only in the first quarter of 2016 about fifteen thousand five hundred businesses put a locker, driving thousands of Greeks into unemployment, while in the years of the memorials, who were also the rulers before you, two hundred fifty businesses suspended their operation and over one and a half million workers are today in unemployment. There's Brain Drain. And, of course, the highest unemployment rate touches young people. It is 52%, the highest in the European Union. We could also say some positive points, but then you spoil them, because we are not followers of zeroing. I'll get an example. It is therefore foreseen in the draft law that the investment proposals are fully and lawful within twenty days. It's great to be so fast. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, I'll be done, Madam President. But then you break it down, because you will have to oversee a nominated person, who does not know how he will supervise and what he proposes, and in fact for the control of these investments there must be an independent mechanism of many auditors, accountants and others. I, of course, had noted a number of other things, but time is limited. We are asking for these delusions to be stopped, for there to be a multi-party government to be trusted by investors, because, as we are now, there is no chance that anyone will come to invest and we will also have leaks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u226	Mr. Kefaliannis from New Democracy has the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Members of the Golden Dawn have submitted a request for a roll-call vote on some articles. I would like to inform you that the vote will take place tomorrow, together with the waivers of immunity at 12 noon.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u227	It is also the vote on the entire bill tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u228	Of course. Mr. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President-in-Office, I too will begin by quoting some figures, since we are talking about the development bill, of course, not the figures you expect to hear. Reading the list of speakers, one will see that out of the 50 three Members of the Chamber - if one is subtracted from the thirty members of the government, one hundred and twenty - only fifty-four were signed to speak of this famous bill. That's how you managed to charm. Less than half. And if this bill was indeed a bill that would turn us into development, then why only fifty-four Members from SYRIZA and none of the Independent Greeks, ladies and gentlemen, did not take the floor in the Chamber, except of course the rapporteur and the parliamentary representative, to defend this bill? I think that's what he's supposed to tell you. And what he has to tell you is just that it is a bill empty of content or a "vacuum shirt", as heard by other interlocutors. Of course, this bill is characterised by the government as another case of special political gravity that is taking place this time in the so-called productive reconstruction of the Greek economy. And it would be, ladies and gentlemen, really wishful work if this narcissism of the intentions accompanying the government in every bill could find even a point of contact with reality. It would be mainly and primarily good for the economy, for investments, for the very entrepreneurship, which has been accused and contaminated by SYRIZA all the time before. But by carefully reading the bill, I could not personally resist doing a mental exercise. I have tried to imagine what those features the company should have in order to join this bill. For example, does it have to be large or small? To be a member of international market or non-market sectors? Introduce any innovation, increase jobs or create added value? Personally, I would like to have all the above traits. But you know that resources are limited. It's only 480 million for the next six years. And that's where exceptions start. So let us understand, ladies and gentlemen, his development contribution to attempting a different reading of the bill. We must assess this not from the investments it is receiving, which we will probably be late to learn - if we ever know - but from those that are excluded or better what the government does not want, as it says, to be the engine of the Greek economy. Who are those excluded? First and foremost, strategic investment. Moreover, the majority rapporteur yesterday said that this development law has a classic class mark. Of course, we did not need today’s draft law to understand that fair growth, which the government publishes, has a class mark. We have been seeing this for a long time and more recently with the attitude on the subject of Greek. It is an 8 billion euro investment, which will create immediately ten thousand new jobs and increase the Gross Domestic Product by about 2%. This is quite simply something that was not in the government's priorities. Only think if the present government could achieve something similar to what the previous one did. All these investments, therefore, have no value for the government and are obviously a secondary one in its planning. Another category of investments which are probably not of interest to the government, and which is why it is not included in this development law, is the investment projects - either large or small - which have had the misfortune to subject to provisions of previous development laws. Here its punishment - probably because they were joined by the previous governments - is more than obvious. Provision is made for a partial payment of the grant in seven annual instalments, of which at least four before the completion and start of the production operation, of the investment project, as we read in Article 77. So what does the government say to investors? If you have not made much progress on your investment plan and hope for us to complete it, you should abandon it. And if you have now been given an advance on this aid plan, then your head hurts. You're gonna have to return it, and I'm inclined to it. What, then, is left behind by these exceptions? Small and medium-sized enterprises, as you at least claim. Those who persevere in all tons that you really care about. But that's not exactly the truth here. In a total of eight hundred thousand small and medium-sized enterprises, about 80% of them keeping books in order are excluded from the new development law. In other words, the seven hundred out of the eight hundred thousand small and medium-sized enterprises. In addition, capital-intensive operations are excluded. So who's left? Do you give a special incentive to internationally marketable industries to invest in exports, or do you put on a clause that increases jobs? None. On the contrary, you put them in additional obstacles. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. It takes seven years of continuous profitability as a prerequisite for your development law to be subject to an economy that has been in recession over the last eight years. There is obviously no advance or alternative way of paying the subsidy, such as offsetting the tax obligations of the companies. I have nothing but to ask myself: which country did you have in mind, Minister, when planning development law? Greece or Germany? What small and medium-sized enterprises in Greece of 2016 have been profitable for seven consecutive years and will make investments without advance and without assistance from the banking system? The few companies that really hope to be strengthened by your development law will have to do so, in addition to the lack of liquidity, capital controls, 29% of profits tax and about thirty ministerial decisions provided, with the unclear timetable for the integration of the law and the issuing of the notice on individual schemes and, as they all show, with the extremely opaque evaluation and integration procedures. I really wish them good luck. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u230	Mrs Kozobol - Amanatidis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed a catalyst that the development law is not good because they spoke only fifty and three of the SYRIZA Members. Indeed, it has left me unsettled. Gentlemen of the previous governments, do you have to make any self-criticism about what state you have delivered the economy with the development laws and the inspired plans that you have implemented and we do not apply? The recovery of the economy, ladies and gentlemen, cannot come from heaven. It can't come with only one tool, on one condition. A combination of many factors is needed. First of all, the respect of the loan contract, the closure of the rating, the first debate and the first debt decisions have built and stabilised an economic environment. They formed a landscape, a base on which the structure can be firmly touched. As far as compliance with the loan agreement is concerned, I will only refer to the recapitalisation of the banks, which was a prerequisite for operating a development programme. The stabilisation of the economic environment is therefore a necessary condition to draw up the next steps. The development law that we are bringing today to the vote is a tool that will help bring the country up. Before I come to the bill, I will make a little reference to the previous legislative framework, although there have been many references to it. There's only one mention I'm going to make. Over the last fifteen years, investments amounting to 32 billion and average job support of EUR 323,000 have been made. So much has been paid by the taxpayer for these infamous development programmes which have been unfolding in recent years. Why? Because 72% of the budget for investment projects absorbed it, hotels and energy, low-tech industries and low-cost jobs. For example, photovoltaics and renewables received aid in 19% and created 1.3% of employment. With the landscape of what is described and described by others, I have not understood exactly why we are being indicted by the Antipopulation gentlemen. In view of the previous sad experience, the new development law strengthens two branches of extrovert and internationally competitive, information and communication technology and the agri-food chain. Both branches have high added value and can constitute a comparative advantage under a distinctive name. Other features of the bill are that 95% of investment projects are less than 20 million euros. The maximum and minimum aid threshold per investment project is set, while tax exemptions are reinforced. It introduces new financial instruments, such as equity funds, to improve the liquidity problem and to circumvent bank restrictions. Moreover, the audit mechanism established has nothing to do with the previous one. It is more flexible and will contribute to a rapid assessment of the implementation of investment projects. Critical procedures are simplified and real resources are committed. It takes order in the chaos inherited by old development laws. Emphasis is on strengthening small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular innovations and business synergies and networkings, integrated local and sectoral projects involving local and productive systems, strengthening the COMPs, producer groups, rural partnerships. The spatial dimension is introduced in this bill to bring about balanced regional development. Investment projects in specific areas are thus supported, depending on their position at the border and the negative population change. Also, the islands affected by migratory flows are being strengthened. The new development law does not seek to compete with low-cost countries. We are a democratic country and labour rights must be protected. Not in the announcements of the free economic zones, as we have seen in the past. For this reason, what is set by the development law as a goal is to move to the production of composite products, with high added value, by exploiting the trained human potential available to our country and by which much of it has emigrated to the ends of the earth. It's time to motivate those kids to come back. And this bill, apart from everyone else, also helps in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u232	Thank you, Mrs. Kozobol. The Minister has the floor for some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u233	There are too many real improvements. I'll stand in eight places. Some of these have been announced, some are added. I repeat, I will stand on eight points. I start with the first one. The concept of a circular economy is being introduced. It has already been mentioned by a number of rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u234	There's no need for any special mention. They will be submitted to the minutes and will be distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u235	All right, they'll be distributed. The same applies to solidarity. Let's go to the first basic change: the NAPS reduces the amount of EUR 75,000 of the investment to EUR 50,000.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u236	Make the 1 euro!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u237	Second change: Building expenditure increases to 60%, 70% in the two categories that had been remembered to increase the size of building expenditure. The next point is the restoration of contaminated areas. All costs are included. The next one relates to the controversial subject of Tier 2 and Class III books. As you remember, the article, as it is formulated, allows all companies with second-class books to enter the law, but obliges them to acquire Tier III books in order to check whether they are co-financed by other state or European sources. Here it is proposed that the category II books can only be kept for investments below 300,000 euros. More than 300,000 euros of investment will be required to be included in Category C. With regard to the repayment procedure, this is defined for someone who completes 100% of his investment. 50% takes 1/7. When he submits a request for 100%, he takes another 1/7. And when 100% is approved, it's still 1/7. So the 3/7 is on completion of the investment and the remaining 4/7 is equal in the next four years. So, practically, the seven years are turned into five years for those who complete 100% of the investment. The last issue concerns the 'individual' and 'non-individual'. The advance payment shall be paid. The interest rate shall be fixed and determined on the basis of the average interest rate of 2016, as defined in the relevant Commission Directive. According to our calculations, it's about 1%-1.1%. With this interest rate, the money will be paid back. I think I said the important things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, Minister. Mr Georgantas, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, what is always called for in a development law - and not only, in general, in any investment envisaged - is the credibility that the legislator must inspire, the government must inspire, the administrative and tax authorities must inspire to the candidate investor. In this draft law, this credibility, which is demanded and which is not only about the wider economic and political framework that we are currently experiencing in the country, but also about the individual issues that are raised in this law, you are unfortunately affecting it. And I want to talk about three specific things. The first is that the introduction of an evaluator based on the confirmed past of instances, creates a risk, creates a suspicion. I think, Minister, that you should not insist on an evaluator. That's right, he's an external evaluator. I think things will move faster. However, a security test in the judgment of this evaluator with the presence of rather a partner next to you or in some form that you would find, I think it would be the most appropriate thing to do. A second blow to the credibility of this development law is the prerequisites - about thirty - ministerial decisions, which are needed to specialise all the regulations and all the issues that are still pending. It is a very large number of these ministerial decisions, Minister. And I think that during these ministerial decisions, the circulars, which are necessary to be adopted, the regulatory provisions, we will be lost, time will be lost for the economy, and time will be lost for potential investors. The most important of all, however, Minister, in relation to the credibility that each article and every word of this law must inspire, is what you mentioned earlier in relation to how to repay, in particular, the earlier investment projects. A government cannot come in and legislate to the lesser extent a development law, which was preceded by a number of investors introduced, applied for membership and at the moment come in this unfair way and creates a more unfavourable regime for them. I think, Minister, that this issue, which you have just raised, with a slight improvement, should be seen in the light of the fact that each case is different. And what do I mean? Some of those who have completed their investment projects - and they must be a separate charge compared to those who have not completed - you know much better than I do that they have bank borrowing against this. This bank lending, if it goes another five years, with the interest rate that banks demand and with the delay in the previous four years, you understand that there will eventually be a great deal of damage to these investors. I therefore think, Minister, that there should be a distinction for those of them who have given the amount of their subsidies to banks. It can be done. If you wish, let us also categorize the amount, so that for small investors - in other words, the sums due, those that some have borrowed on burdensome terms, and as the banks every year, seeing the delay, they are also pushing higher interest rates than at first giving them a solution. And the solution must not just be given to ensure that some businesses that are simply in danger of being closed down are viable, but to restore credibility, which is indeed necessary in a development bill. Therefore, in relation to those that have been subject to the earlier laws, in particular the 2011 Act, a categorisation should be made depending on the amount of the grant and then prioritised to those who have allocated the amount. I would like to make another comment, Minister, and I would like to ask you, in relation to the specific categories of the border. What you are entering today in relation to the distance of 30 km from the border, which is your choice, is more unfavourable than the former regime. Prefecture Kilkis, Prefecture Pellas, Serres Prefecture, Dramas Prefecture was characterized - all prefectures - as border authorities. At the moment, when the great demand for the northern borders of our country is to stop the business outflow towards Skopje and Bulgaria, why not give an incentive for businesses to remain and invest in these regions, why not have a reduced tax rate? Let it not be in the form of the grant or State aid if the State funds are not sufficient. But let it be in the form of a reduced rate of taxation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Madam President. You have an obligation, Minister, to restore these border regions, which are restricted by this draft law, to restore them to their geographical extent and to give additional incentives, because we are all talking about the need to stop this outflow of businesses to the third countries that are above our borders, but we are not doing anything about this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Mr. Georgioda. Mr. Michalop, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u241	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to discuss a development law and I would like to say that if anything else the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has a sense of humor, since it sees growth in what it is planning. Over six years we have been living the policy of memoranda and the situation of the economy is getting worse and worse. Finally, the Government must stop invoking the failure of the New Democracy - PASOK and the government of Papademos, which certainly did not solve the problem, made unemployment greater, deepened the country's economy more deeply. So not to invoke it because it follows the same policy, it is a genuine follow-up, it is the continuation of the policy of the memorandums. All that changed is that from Samara's success story, which only existed in his imagination, we passed through the development law of SYRIZA and ANEL, which will allegedly bring growth. These are drawings on paper, which have nothing to do with the real economy. Previously, however, I would like to refer to an issue outside the bill, namely the statement by the Minister of Education, Mr Friend, that there was no Pontius genocide, which caused a storm of reactions on the part of the New Democracy. I have in my hands the statement of the advisor of the President of the New Democracy, Mr.Mitsotakis, on Facebook, Mr. Christos Valtadouros, published on July 7, 2016 and related to the reading of the Quran within the Holy Temple of the Greeks, Agia Sophia. So he said the advisor of the president of the nationally sensitive party - supposedly - to be a party of the New Democracy: 'Do not worry about a day with clouds, but the monument of Agia Sophia has been Islamic for centuries. With or without a marvelous king, a good man escaped from taxes." Very bad humour, gentlemen of the New Democracy, to play with the national ideals and history of this people, this nation with thousands of years of history. In addition, I want to denounce both the Government and the Civic Opposition and all the parties, who see Agia Sophia as an international issue and a monument of global cultural heritage. I don't think the Austrians or the Spanish or the Bolivians are interested in Agia Sophia the same as the Greeks. So let us stop taking advantage of a number of SYRIZA officials, because this statement by President Mitsotakis' counselor, on a marble king, who was happy, because he is not paying taxes, is at least unfortunate, is nationally dangerous, is a blasphemy against Greek history. And, finally, it's not a pretext. They may be of good and marxist origin but also of neoliberal origin, as we have seen on this in order to remember the statement by Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis that the subject of the Macedonian is a mess. Does development law necessarily mean development? No, of course not. And since one of the objectives of the development law is to combat unemployment - which in our country has taken a nightmare, more than 25%, and the young people have exceeded 52% - to say that there are at last new jobs. The government announced new jobs. Five thousand. Do you know why? For personal storage and monitoring of hot spots. This is the production process followed by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. The creation of hot spots throughout Greece and the recruitment of five thousand workers to them! In this respect, IKA's circular recently came, which gives the right to those who are illegally in our homeland, without a residence permit, to pay to the IKA fifty quarters of the previous financial year, unskilled worker, a very small amount and thus obtain a residence permit, going with their passports, even if they have expired. The so-called refugee issue, which for us is illegal immigration, is constantly spectacular. And if the agreement with Turkey breaks, which has never been implemented, it will take even greater proportions. And instead of taking advantage of that, the government accepts it. He accepts the orders from Brussels and the world bosses without reacting. You triumphed for the assignment and final signatures of the Greek launder with 92 euros in the square, an area of the seaside at the most chosen point of Attica, which you are literally extinguishing. I would remind you that for the Greek had decided in 2010 the Council of State is an airport and must remain an airport and later in 2015 it made a new decision that said they were fields. There was no airport, it was in the imagination of the Greek people the Greek as an airport! [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS KREMASTINOS, takes over the President's seat.]] Thus, with a colonial agreement signed by the previous governments, but you do not denounce and continue with it, there is no second airport in the city, in a city where its population exceeds four million, at the same time as in most European cities and capitals there are two, three and four airports. Colonial policy continues. And we are now coming to the tax, in relation to the growth and prediction it has, to favour, a stable tax regime and investment grants, which will exceed EUR 20 million. Your policy really is classic. You make sure that those who invest EUR 20 million or more are taxed benefit. They're proletarians, as it turns out. The EUR 20 million proletariats will therefore be favoured. On the other hand, the other companies will suffer the hard tax system, which you imposed on the multi-brand plan that we voted on a few days ago and which has basically voted for both New Democracy and PASOK and Potami, voting 'yes' in the SYRIZA Memorandum on August 14, 2015. On the contrary, there was a 'no' clear, a 'no' national, patriot, a 'no' in the memorials and the New Democracy and PASOK and SYRIZA. And this 'no' was the 'no' of the nationalist, the Golden Dawn. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] It is important to stress that this subsidy, which will favour investments of more than EUR 20 million, consists of providing free of charge from the public amount to cover part of the eligible costs of the investment project. There is also a promise to stabilise the income tax rate for twelve years, but also to finance the risk, through an equity fund. In other words, you are not only subsidising these investments - which will certainly not make Greeks, but foreign cords, which will come to plunder our country - but you also guarantee them from future business risks. If, in other words, a few air carriers come here and invest, they will not have any economic problems, because they will have their possible losses. The exclusion from the aid by the law which, as I repeat, called the 'development' of a sense of humor, excludes companies which have not profited in any use in the last six years. Only in the first months of 2016 have tens of thousands of businesses been closed and yet there are some who keep their jobs, keep their employees and try to secure their bread. What are you doing to those who have endured these six years of judgment, these six years of weaving? You exclude them from any aid through the so-called development law. I mean, in fact, you lead them to bankruptcy and closure. In particular, in development law, Article 67, there is talk of stimulating the stability of the tax framework only for investments of more than EUR 20 million, as I said before. There is, however, and another size should be measured, the creation of new jobs, and on this basis, you should give weight and try to premium, if you like, those companies that will employ more Greeks at an even lower rate. Is it a solution for companies, which have endured for six years with damage, to close? Of course not. Instead, they had to be taken care of and cared for by the state. And finally, if you want to close some 'enterprise', close the public sector. Wages and pensions in the public sector cost 46 billion. And if any business is injurious in this country, it's the public sector. But it is your party clientele and it is party clientele in the future - since it comes first in polling - and in the New Democracy. That is why all they said about the redundancies of civil servants and so on have now been deleted from their election agenda. It is very important that, within the framework of the development law, you exclude the strengthening of the steel industry and the shipyards. In fact, for the shipyards you have tabled an amendment to that effect. It is, in fact, tragic in a country which, as far as shipowners are concerned, is second throughout the world, that there is no attempt to strengthen the shipbuilding industry. It is also tragic that there is no care to motivate those who have ships to hire Greeks as staff. At one time the Greek seafarers reached the two thousand and took money into foreign exchange, which was returning home and there was indeed a rise in the national economy. Today, with all these laws, our seafarers have been confined to twenty-thirty thousand at most and concern only masters and first engineers mainly. And, unfortunately, Greek shipping has died. Because Greek seamen are not shipowners. They're the Greek seafarers, who've been sidelined. Exemption from development law, both steel and other very important branches of industry, also shows the Government’s intention to see growth and to see the economy. It is seen as a case of a post-progressive economy without bases, and this is completely contrary to the philosophy of the nationalist party, the Golden Dawn. As far as farmers are concerned, there should also be specific approval for investment projects by a number of Ministers, by the Minister for Economy, Development and Tourism and the Minister for Rural Development and Food. So how can we talk about a development perspective for a so-called sovereign state when Article 3 of this law provides that the applicable law will be that of the European Union and other investment projects will only be subject to the approval of the European Commission? What the lenders say, then, who have literally led us to the cliff in all these six years. We can develop within the Eurozone with this common agricultural policy, the CAP or with GATT, the agreement on the liberalisation of world trade, etc.Huh? Apparently, it can't. The country must, however, develop. And finally, we must stop the danger that Greece will be destroyed if it comes out of the euro area. The entire euro area will suffer more damage, much greater than the Greek debt, which must be denounced. I would now like to refer to Mr Katrugalou's statement on conflicts and to inform the House that on Sunday in Kalamata we had a gathering and that there was a co-concentration announced three, four days ago, which the government and the police allowed. That is why I find it highly hypocritical. A great subject of the days, too, is the gathering to be held in the Constitution under the slogan "Resign". Gentlemen of the New Democracy, it is addressed to you. Resign for election. You have MPs in all the major constituencies of the country. If you really want elections and you don't pretend, then quit to provoke elections and make it look like New Democracy is the first. It's obvious. SYRIZA has lost the popular mandate, not in Parliament, but in the conscience of the people. On the other hand, however, the New Democracy cannot have the necessary majority. Do what is essentially happening. Collaborate on the policy of the memorials, which you yourself serve. And as far as today's gathering is concerned, I find it hypocritical that SYRIZA reacts, while we had the great gatherings against the memorandum and some prominent SYRIZA officials said they would turn the Syntagma Square into Tahrir Square, lay hangers on Syntagma Square, etc. What's against you is bothering you. Gentlemen, it is clear that the development law is not going to lead anywhere either. The country is moving towards economic disaster. The Golden Dawn will be here to say 'no' to your laws, to say 'no' to the policy of monuments. Golden Dawn is the national opposition in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u242	Thank you. Mr. Selchas has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u243	Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill, as we all know, comes at a difficult economic juncture. It is, however, a good opportunity to address the real issue of policy, which is the development of a socially characteristic development strategy. The public dialogue is overwhelmed by the government's negotiations and easy criticism of them and there is no room for real fermentation of views on the development model proposed by each political body. Perhaps this is because the groups, which have had years' responsibility for drawing up this model of development, are unable to withstand the comparison that will demonstrate their inadequacy and responsibilities with the lost opportunities of so many years. The time is urgently calling for breaths of liquidity and employment in the country, but also for a different sustainable development perspective for the future. In both these needs, development law responds. Firstly, with regard to employment, according to the Ministry's figures, the average number of new jobs per investment fell in 2011 to 4,8 at EUR 322,000 per job. The new law sets the level of aid in order to benefit more businesses and thus create more new jobs. The existence of qualified personnel is also upgraded to the eligibility criteria. Ebrakatta, then, is a premium for those who invest in the greatest property in this country, which is its capable human resource. A lot of people confessed to that, but few did practically something about it. It is characteristic that 95% of investment is low and relatively low technology, which left the country's advantage in scientific capacity inactive. This also sends us to the second difference in the new law than the previous ones. The new law is trying to make a clear target in sectors and technologies rather than simply strengthen established and established businesses, such as previous ones. In particular, 72% of the aid went to the energy and tourism sectors. Two branches, the first one consisting of capitalists with a high liquidity potential and the second is an established sector of the Greek economy. Scientific innovation and the agri-food sector are the Ministry's expressed target for the coming period. By exploiting the obvious comparative advantages of that country, the government must dare to set specific targets and rightly do so. The third weakness of the strategy of development in the country has been the delay in regional development over the major urban centres and especially Athens. Again, I will invoke the Ministry's evidence that the investments continue to be attracted by the regions of Athens, Thessaloniki and Boeotia, contrary to regions that are critical and disadvantaged. The new law tries to cure this weakness in two ways: first, through the rate of aid and, second, through the premium for synergies and networking. It is in networking that the province suffers, and that is exactly where the new law aims. From now on, companies are invited to follow a new cooperative path, which will help them to survive in general, but will also be rewarded by the Ministry's policy. The issue of regional convergence and decentralisation concerns me personally, as I have the honour of being one of the few Members living in a village. But that is not the only reason why I believe in the importance of decentralised development. The act itself proves its importance. The primary industrial production, which is needed to give independence and negotiating power to the country, is favoured in the province for two reasons: first, there are no urban and environmental constraints on the large urban centres. Urban overdevelopment, such as Athens, leads them to mathematics in commerce and services, while the province can support industrial development in a sustainable way. The proximity of natural wealth sources in the province is a key element in the development of the respective industries. On this point I would like to mention the example of a business in my country, the 'Winter Florins Water'. The sources of mineral water, which exist from ancient times in our region, were also the ones that named our community. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Since 1992, which has been operating as a Community company, it has been a model of developing and gaining goodwill from the product of natural wealth, such as coal, natural, mineral water. It is a healthy business - municipal now, of course - with a well-readed brand and a stable sales network. It creates jobs and keeps young people, scientists, workers in general. Such municipal enterprises, which are not dependent on state aid, but are standing on the market and create goodwill, must be supported by development law and it is very positive that the Ministry has shown proper reflexes and included them in legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, Mr. Selcha. Mrs Karakosta, SYRIZA Member, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u245	Most of the things about development law were said by many of my colleagues and partners. Although Mr. Kefaliannis complained that few spoke, I would like to say that so far they have spoken even less, but almost everything has been said. What I mean to say is the relationship of truth and lies. We promised the Greek people the change in the development model in this country. We promised growth, mainly based on the small and medium-sized enterprises, recognising that this is the economic backbone of this country. We have promised to support and support primary production, the processing of this product and to combine it with tourism. We all know that due to the size of our country, because of the climate of our country, but also because of our country's relief, our country must focus mainly on quality production, good services and not on large quantities. So, although we are obliged by the 3.6 billion to give a very large sum, i.e. 2.6 billion, to the old projects to be completed, we have made sure that we support the region in particular and that we show the special areas. We must understand that the Left has been struggling for too many years for the concept of regional development. We were against the large centres, and we said how to find ways to strengthen the region. So this law comes to a great extent to cover this part. I would like to say with this that it was really unfair to see, for example, limited the part of tourism development only to large investments and very few islands, while it was not possible to spread to smaller islands, but above all to mountain tumors. Today in Greece, in fact, the part of tourism is devalued in mountainous volumes. Furthermore, through the cooperative enterprises promoted by the bill, which we must stress here that the bills, which we have already voted on, such as the bill on pastures, which strengthens livestock farming, such as the bill on the suspension of forest maps, which will better define the uses of land and clean the landscape at this point, are being used to ensure that we do not have great investment in hail and forests, which the State did not define, but that the private initiatives - all these are the overturning of the logic of the earlier laws - we are here to say this. Indicating the primary production of the place, processing the local product, it is necessary, for example, to say and convince the hotelier that, "Look at Mykonos, you must combine the flower with your breakfast" or in my village "the tsalafout with your breakfast". In other words, these are local products, for the dissemination of the product, which our tourists may also be looking for, and we should also be forced to export. But I do not want to go on with that because I really wanted to comment on some of the things that have been said. I would like to refer to something Mrs Papayannakis said. It made me a great impression. As he says, innovation will grow as much as wages will fall and unemployment will increase. Has the Left ever been against technology? I don't know how to take it. Of course, we must stand up and ask her to fight together, and if not, allow us to do so, but fight, so that the profit from the product of technology is spread to the workers and that there is a free time for the worker. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm so sorry! I'm not taking any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u246	Thank you, Mr. Caracosta. Mr Kikilias, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor and will then speak immediately after the parliamentary representative of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u247	Thank you very much, Mr President. It's all right that the Minister's out of halloween, that's what happens. Besides, the criticism has been summarised, if you like, to the spokesmen of the Officerial Vice-President on specific issues. It is not just that we do not believe a development law, which provides for something less than EUR 500 million for the years to come, while the public's overdue debts reach 7 billion, it is not only that we see in this bill 'cutters' that we see micro-party logic, that we see rosphetological logic and an attempt to divide crumbs into different parts, it is not just that we consider that Mr Tsipras is mocking the Greek people when he is organizing an event in the Acropolis Museum to tell us that development has come into this economic and development environment in which the Greek, small, middle-sized investor lives. It is not just all of this, but I would like to give a new dimension, if you like, to what has so far happened in the real environment, in which you have shown that you have been commanding the last fifteen to eighteen months and which we are called, as a Preservative Anti-Policy, by the Constitution to control, criticise and propose things. So let's see what you have created in the country during your administration. Because it is now over, it is over the motto that “the former are to blame for everything.” This ended with your decision to take the country back to elections for the third time together with the referendum within a year. The Greek people have decided. So what did you guys do? We are under capital control of Greek banks. You know very well that this is a development tool, even you who feel that the cosmopolitan, who has his money in the banks, is your enemy, and therefore, little or no, you are defending those who have nothing against those who have little - because they have little left - you understand that without this tool it is very difficult to develop the Greek economy. Very good. Are the ports in the country a development tool? Obviously. You chose Piraeus to have refugees for 15 months, migrants, a situation which was intolerable for these people, unfortunately, but also for the cruise and for the shipping and the way the port operates. Even today, now that we are talking, after the operation carried out by the Greek Police, the port is on strike and eight million euros were lost at the weekend. Is the port of Thessaloniki in better condition? And that's where the refugees are. Does the means of fixed track work perfectly in this country? Let me remind you that more than eighty days in Idomen the railway line was closed at a huge cost, real, economic, but also communications for the country. The images traveled everywhere and showed what we were. We are a country of mess, where the Greek Government cannot exercise command, because it dares not apply the obvious and put the country in order. What is the largest project in the country, regardless of where it comes from and who will invest, according to the common confession of normal people in that country? Apparently it's the Greek. Such an extent, such a fillet, as you say, has not existed. I would like to remind you that your forecast for the Greek was a waste disposal site. The mayor of the municipality in question together with the district, if you remember, had made provision for this. In other words, your administrative - political concern over the last 15 months for the Greek - is the disposal of waste. I am not talking about crocodile tears, I am not even in the process of saying what you were saying and what you are saying now about this top level of development, the signal, if you like, which will give such an investment for our country. I'm talking about what you guys did at the management level. Let us not talk and say how you are dealing with start-ups, because I see an interesting approach to the bill for small, medium-sized and large entrepreneurs. I would like to remind you that explicitly and unequivocally the Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, has spoken about a class approach to Greeks. He's been a battalionist. It has been in favour of some and others. How do you understand democracy in this country? In favor of some and others? Really? Or do you think that you are the country, when the Parliamentary representative says that it is putting against democracy and against the interests of the country, or any demonstration of a small, large, medium-sized, whichever comes from? How do you understand things like that? Mr President, I do not want to eat my time. I have a few seconds to say that it is not that the New Democracy is voting against a development bill, which, as has been said, is 'a vacant shirt'. That's a little bit of a problem. You have the parliamentary majority and you will vote for it and you will finally pass it. It is that we are now almost certain that, because of your idealism and your administrative inability, you cannot even do this, the poor bill, to implement it. You don't have the ability, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Ministers, I fear you are unable to implement what you are legislating for. And because I know very well that you are dragging about in this bill with some prerequisites to get from the fifth evaluation of subsubstance, I'm afraid once it's voted - and if it's voted - and you get the dose, you'll start the same again. In any case, the country needs to change its page. We're telling you all about it. You don't want to understand it. Close psalm, crosses! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u248	Thank you, Mr. Kikilia. Mr. Loverdos has asked for the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u249	Mr President, I have asked for a second. I had in mind the arrangements of the draft law introduced in plenary. Now, just before I got up, I had Mr Muzala's amendment. What can I say, Mr President? I don't know. We told Mr. Kaklamani yesterday...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u250	Put your hands up. It can't be done. It's humiliating!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u251	And I raise my hands up! I don't know what to do! I ask for help from colleagues and from the majority. We had said that the procedure would be going properly, unless we had amendments. We have been assured that we will not have any amendments other than that of Mr Muzala, indeed. She's pulled out and that's right now. What's that? How do I plead, Mr President? I ask you to use my tritology and, in any case, see what you are going to do with the other parties. We cannot put ourselves in a position to regulate that is nine pages and something, while it comes to us just before we ask. I would ask you to ensure that this House is informed and aware of what the government is introducing. Now, I have a more general comment. I would remind you, Mr President, that on the amendment with its view yesterday, we were in store, although it was challenging, and we did not say a word, because this is a huge issue, immigration - refugee. This is not to be understood as weakness or well - being. A very serious text is now coming here. What's that? Contact the President, to predict something special about this. I would like to ask you, the two minutes I have used without wanting to do so, on a matter which I did not have in mind, not to count on, so that I can be okay within the six-minute period given by the Rules of Procedure for my denunciation. I have to ask the Ministry, who took the legislative initiative on today's draft law, a few questions. The first, Mr President, is real. I am sorry about something, and I am frankly rather unrealistic. Mr President, in Article 8(6), you say that certain expenditure is not covered. That is what Article 8(6) says. In the case in point, you refer to an eligible cost, which is the construction or extension of buildings on the ground, which is not owned by the investment firm, unless it has been granted by the public or public sector body or has been leased for ten years. My interpretation is that it has been leased not by a public sector body or by a public body, but also by a private body. This is the interpretation of a legal provision in its grammar. I would like to have an exact answer to this real question, or if you think that the provision is inappropriate in its wording, to be completed. We shall now proceed to my rhetoric question: it is an amendment tabled by the Democratic Incorporation, supported by Mr Constantinople with great adequacy in committee and in plenary, and it is about keeping promises made by the Prime Minister regarding the product of the sales operations, the withdrawals of this supranational company, which you have created. You said 50% would go to growth. We have asked for 15% to be identified in the chapter on the assumptions of this development policy. In other words, 15% of each revenue is counted at EUR 480,000,000, that is, the limited amount of this development law. If you are honest, if you are serious, if you mean what you mean, our amendment must be accepted. Mr President, it is not possible for the National Representation to have double standards in terms of figures and data. As far as the late 2004 and 2011 programmes are concerned, we are making other calculations on the basis of the figures provided by the government and other calculations made by the majority Members. We heard majority MPs talking about three billion delays and we have only taken one table on the 2004 development delays, from which calculations are seven hundred million. The rest? For 2011, which are late, you promised to bring evidence, where are the evidence? Why do majority Members give other figures than those that the National Representation is officially informed? We are waiting for a list so that we can be placed. The seven years now, which are seven and maybe five, may be, here, Mr President, time-limited issues. But now see, gentlemen of the government, what assumptions may be relevant. I am referring to a programme of fifty municipalities from the Trikala Prefecture, who have said to make use of their water to produce energy. It was all right. They entered the procedures that you did not improve, and they come now, in a life-saving year 2016, waiting for their aid, ready to produce and tell them the public, "yes, in seven years". They're the ones you're ruining. And if your mind goes to the convenience of criticising the past, come see why the development law you are commending today, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, perhaps not knowing certain things, is almost the same as that of 2004. I said it this morning. I didn't get a reply. Explanation has not been given. I record absolute similarities: same, but reduced, i.e. worse - subsidised activities. I refer to No 3299/2004. Same financing scheme in instalments, but no advance. Nearly the same areas. Categories of eligible expenditure in a project, same. Dyspical licensing scheme and this, like that. A three-member consultative committee, and now and then. What are the innovations that will lead businesses that want to come under, to avoid bureaucracy, which in itself brings corruption? But a lack of rhetoric is worthy of the argument I have put forward. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, we have told you that you cannot speak of development and of a strategic development plan, when 15 days ago you have cancelled the application of the capital of the draft law of Maniatis 2014, n.4269, Articles 14 to 33, which provide for land use. On the basis of this chapter, which was carried out in cooperation with the then TE, Mr Spirtzi, he proceeded with a series of investments. You bring it back to make a new overall planning and the majority voted for this. We call for an amendment to that effect to be deleted, to allow things to evolve. Medium and large investments have been based on that legislative change, which has been found to be very useful and necessary. Finally, Mr President - I am closing - we had a debate this morning on the gathering that will take place shortly in the Constitution. We said our arguments. Ladies and gentlemen of the Com mittee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media have also been mentioned. While our conversation is taking place here and we are moving forward, Mr. Philis, sponsor of the event, came back and insulted our own party. He considered that the dreadful Mr. Friend, with his own intervention, made us afraid and supposed to retire. Each of us has his record. If Mr. Philis needs a record, that's the sponsor of today's event and the measure of aggregation of our own powers. Keep an eye on his words.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u252	Mr. Dendia, you have asked for the floor. Do you want six minutes or just comment?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u253	No, I would like to put this amendment, not the others.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u254	Two minutes enough for you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u255	And there's a lot of it! Mr President, I have the impression that the amendment so much, Mr Minister, and I address you, because first I imagine you are adopting it. Yes or no? Because if you do not adopt it, then there is no question. Thank you very much for your openness and I am sitting. If you adopt it, however, there is, firstly, a question of insulting Parliament. This amendment came last night and the government shrugged before Members' reaction and restored it, despite the assurances today, as no one will notice it. Secondly, it has two extremely problematic provisions, not to say insulting too. A provision permitting the performance and performance of public contracts, with the exception of the provisions of the Treaties and of the miracle, even provision for the operation of canisters other than those laid down. Mr. President, for God's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u256	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u257	I address the Government and say to it that there are limits which the Government obviously does not understand collectively and individually, the missing Minister, Mr Mouszalas, who, in this sense, thinks that he can pass such things through the national Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u258	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u259	Minister, Mr Stathakis, would you like to answer or give the floor to Mr Famello?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u260	Let Mr. Felmellos speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u261	Please, Mr. Famelos has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u262	Please, if you please, can be charged as a secondary. I take the floor first of all to give the necessary information to my colleague in the Democratic Incorporation, who asked about these issues, as regards the implementation and implementation of previous development laws. During my position, which Mr Loverdos was here - I noticed he was present - I have tabled in the Minutes for this very purpose, so that there is no discussion without proof, the framework for implementing the two earlier development laws, namely what is the integrated aid, what is due and why, if there are two outstanding technical control reports, if there is a request, if the project or anything else is inactive. In order to avoid misunderstanding, therefore, and in view of the good intention of reopening my colleague, I would like to give two tables to the Democratic Assent. Of course, this is a matter for all parties. They are tabled in the Minutes and obviously, ladies and gentlemen, I am not making any distinction. One concerns L.3299/2004 and the other concerns L.3108/2011. The total investment, aid and projects is six thousand, seventy-two investment projects with a general set of grants and tax exemptions of 6,356,000 euros. That's the first thing. The second concerns the existing plans and the timing of repayment and implementation, because you have also put this in place. I am referring, Mr Loverdos, to the seven years. There has already been intervention on the part of the Minister and it has been mentioned that we can shorten the first three steps in connection with the completion, application and demonstration of completion in an act. So, in a way, 3/7 of the plan - if it is implemented obviously - we have a shorter time, so we do not consume the first three years perhaps, someone would say, depending on the progress of the project. The time of the seven years is therefore practically four. And that, obviously, if the investor is consistent. So the government already has this plan and it responds. On the subject of Mr Nineteen on the amendment - I do not mean his, personal, alas! - the information we have is that the Minister responsible will come to Parliament. There's no absent, Minister. There will be a debate on this matter. So I reserve this when Mr Muszalas comes in. We will, however, inform you and we will then be placed on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u263	Is the problem going to be Mr. Muzalas?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u264	Mr. Dendias raised specific questions, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u265	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u266	Mr Karathanasopoulos has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u267	I wanted to put this amendment for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u268	Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u269	Mr President, Mr Famelos, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, spoke with decency. However, I would like to 'wrap him' if he allows me. I'm not mean. It is understandable that a very active majority colleague would like to become Minister. But it hasn't happened yet. You must testify, my Minister, the evidence and not your Member. The Member shall submit the information he has. I trust him and I'll take them into account. However, the Government submits the information on the issues which it proposes. Also, if, for the second issue, in the seven years, there has been a special arrangement, where seven are five or three, then we too will be able to see how objections are raised from all over Greece, Mr President. Tomorrow morning we need to know what law the House has passed. We would therefore like to see a responsible clarification from the relevant government. Finally, I would like to ask you this: among the questions which we have raised, there is one which is perfectly practical. The Minister was here, he heard it, and we really want an answer. Finally, as far as immigration is concerned, I believe that the Minister will come. Mr. Muzalas was here this morning. But then, when he buys, we want to open a circle of discussion about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u270	I would like to clarify this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u271	Mr Karathanasopoulos has asked for the floor. Don't have an interactive conversation, Mr. Famele, it's not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u272	And Mr. Loverdus has taken the floor, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u273	Yes, but there is an interactive debate and he will ask for the floor again. I give you the floor for a minute, but we'll finish here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u274	I shall refer to the position of the Parliamentary Representative of Democratic Independence. I think that as a parliamentary representative and an experienced parliamentary representative, Mr Loverdo, you know that a parliamentary representative does not just speak as a parliamentarian, but represents the President of the parliamentary group. With this institutional role, I was also placed with this role by the parliamentary group and the representation of its President is the one that gives me the right to table the table to which the Ministry had already referred. I think you're drawing the wrong conclusions. You, probably, were trying to become a minister, and we weren't!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u275	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u276	Minister, because Mr. Karathanasopoulos has asked for the floor, may I give you the floor immediately afterwards to answer a whole question?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u277	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u278	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u279	Wait a minute, Mr. President. I shall simply refer to the amendment. The question is not whether the Minister will come to explain the amendment. The question is that this is unacceptable. An amendment, unrelated to the draft legislation on immigration, was tabled not an hour ago. It is not the question of whether the Minister will come to explain it or not or open a circle of speakers. We cannot continue this process. In fact, a part of this amendment was tabled last night? And he's retired. We therefore say that this amendment should be withdrawn. It has nothing to do with the bill. It cannot come shortly before the debate on the specific bill of the Ministry of Economy is concluded. From this point of view, it should come in accordance with the normal procedure. This amendment cannot be debated by such procedures.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u280	Minister Stathakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u281	Mr President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u282	I would also like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u283	I too, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u284	The Minister has asked for the floor. Mr. Papadopoulos, you can't talk. What can we do? Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u285	I don't have anything to add. I'll make a clarification. It also applies to individuals in eight or six at the same time. For the five years, I think that legal technology has solved the matter. 3/7 are paid on completion 100% and they follow four years. It is clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u286	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u287	Mr. Danellis is your parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u288	Mr. Danellis is not present at the moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u289	He has the floor. We are applying the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Thalerite has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u290	Mr President, I want the floor. There has been a debate which insults me as a Member and I would like to place myself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u291	What do you want to say, Mr. Papadopoulos? You can't talk. I do not give you the floor because it is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure. It's not personal. You can't say anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u292	Such insulting words should not be heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u293	No one offended you. Don't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u294	Why shouldn't I say it? Shouldn't I be heard?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u295	The parliamentary representative has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u296	Don't I have the right to be heard?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u297	The Rules of Procedure do not allow it. Mrs. Thalerite, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u298	Ladies and gentlemen, the main objective of the draft law we are debating today is to provide a tool for the development policy of the country in order to avoid the mistakes and failures or the specific policies of the past that have led us, in many cases, to known results and to known shortcomings. But what were these features of previous development laws? The absence of a clear target and vision. Previous development laws have had little influence on the structure of the economy. They limited their role in a liquidity facility in the economy by strengthening specific and established branches, which were of low added value, because they did not require significant knowledge, design and implementation of innovative methods. On the substance of the matter, the previous governments have not so far seen the need for an investment environment, which would make it easier for entrepreneurs to invest. This approach had negative results both for local communities and for public administration, because both could not see the importance of the competitiveness of products produced and balanced sectoral development. What is different from this developmental, investment law? In the first place, innovation concerns sectors and sectors which are supported. I will not expand in detail on the innovative elements and characteristics of this draft law, but I will identify specific areas. Firstly, it does not strengthen existing trends, as previous laws have done, namely hotels and energy. What's he doing? It selects two branches, which are considered extrovertible and internationally competitive - the information and communication technology and the agri-food chain - precisely because they are strategic goals for the country's development, in line with the government programme. The government's intention is therefore that these two branches, which have high added value, should acquire a distinct name and label. However, apart from the above, I think we should identify five elements in this bill. What are these? Firstly, support for small and medium-sized enterprises. It was said by most colleagues and colleagues. Secondly, aid for synergy and networking of enterprises. Thirdly, the integrated spatial and sectoral plans. I will insist here, for precisely these integrated spatial and sectoral projects concern local production systems and value chains, that is, they set the framework for integrated investments and are potentially changing the overall and occasional approach, which have so far been taken by previous laws. The fourth point is the strengthening of social enterprises, producer groups, municipal enterprises, agricultural partnerships. This possibility is given for the first time. For the first time, the different development approach is focused, which is now changing and targeting and including. This development is not only about specific and a few business groups, but also about cooperative ventures and rural partnerships. Finally, I will dwell on the fifth point which I consider to be the most innovative of this law, in the integration of the spatial dimension into aid. What I want to stress is that this development law strengthens locality. All legal aid schemes have as a reference the local framework and recognise the importance of regional innovation and balanced development. The aim is to eliminate differences and disparities between different regions, and that is why the less favoured areas are identified as specific areas and are included in specific categories. In this way, an additional incentive is given to enterprises located in remote or less developed areas. These areas are located at the lowest possible level, i.e. at the municipality level, so that we can identify the needs and real problems of these regions near and next to these areas. These are defined in four categories: mountain, border and island regions and those with a decline in population. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me two more minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u299	Please, you have one more minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u300	Finally, I would like to point out that, apart from locality, there is an exception to this law that we should see, what we call 'culture', the so-called 'creative or orange industry'. That is why I recognise the problem with the CSCE. I think, however, that if we really want to give another innovative element to the approach that exists in this development law, we should see it or see from other laws in addition, because precisely this extroversion that this cultural industry needs to have, can help to create a new extroverted identity of the country and another development process. Finally, I would like to stress that this bill aims to create conditions and conditions for a growth strategy based on the development of the country's human resources. It is therefore one of the - most importantly if you like - high added value activities that we have today as a country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u301	Mr Apostle, the Minister for Rural Development, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u302	Ladies and gentlemen, we now have a development law in our hands, although it has been designed under the conditions of operation of the Greek economy and with all the constraints of the fiscal crisis, we hope it will be a backdrop in the country's economic recovery and will help to get out of the crisis. Our optimism is justified and is based on the following factors: Firstly, in the negotiating determination and capacity shown by the government in the previous period. It has brought the first evaluation to fruition and is gradually becoming a new climate at financial and budgetary level, as well as at structural change level, to ensure a stable macroeconomic environment. Secondly, the main feature of the law is the concept that passes through it and called equitable growth. This means that the benefits of growth will be shared fairly, that social considerations will be respected, that the social state will be strengthened. It is distinguished, in other words, from moral documentation, which is essential not only to any democratic political system but also to any political or economic project. This is especially the seal of fair development that particularly characterises this development law. Thirdly, it is not, ladies and gentlemen, a repetition of previous laws. It is an innovative law, because the tools it provides for, such as tax exemption, leasing subsidy, interest rate subsidy, a subsidy for the costs of the job created, a fixed tax system, a rapid licensing, business risk financing, tax offsetting, are tools that respond to the modern requirements of restructuring our country's economy with high added value activities and, of course, to the exploitation of human resources, in order to prevent the bleeding of outwards in particular of our young people. Fourthly, he's not subordinate to the work of the artificial tendencies of the time. It responds to the real needs of our country's economic and employment relief. It is clearly oriented to help small and medium-sized enterprises with organised dispersal of investment projects to set up and support returns on business. Fifthly, the principle of any aid, ladies and gentlemen, is the truth of the outcome, in order to ensure that the money will get a place and not be entangled by some scientists, as was so often the case in the past. The aid will be granted on the basis of the results rather than of the planned plans. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not need to argue because it does not mean growth in our country, without putting particular emphasis on the development of the agri-food chain. The agri-food chain is foreseen as one of two main levels of law enforcement. Cooperatives, social-cooperatives, producer groups, agricultural-company partnerships, cooperatives, companies operating in specific areas, mountains, border, islands, etc., all have the possibility of going into development law on the basis of a business plan that we are going to submit. Our aim is for the agri-food chain regulations to be integrated into the overall agricultural policy of the government and through development plans to contribute to strengthening the country's nutritional adequacy with healthy and quality products - of course also at affordable prices - and therefore to improving the agricultural balance of trade in agricultural products by replacing imports and supporting exports. Ladies and gentlemen, the figures show that in 2015, this deficit was reduced by 48%. The aim is also to increase the employment and income of rural households, the social and economic reconstruction of rural areas and the upgrading of public services and infrastructure supporting rural development, the promotion of exports based on the qualitative nature of agricultural products. As I said before, the evidence already shows that there is an upward trend in exports in 2016. Sixth, to make better use of the EUR six billion of Community investment funds for agriculture, livestock and fisheries in the 2014-2020 programming period. We are talking about the Rural Development Programme. Of course we hope that, through this process, at least fifty thousand jobs will be created or maintained in the rural area. Our strategic choices in conjunction with development law are horizontally permeated by the introduction of innovation in all forms with advisory structures for the scientific and technical support of producers from geotechnics, geopolitics, veterinarians and economists, of course, because there is also a need for economist support, with innovation partnerships, promoted through operational groups, set up by farmers researchers and consultants, with the establishment of producer groups and with 100% of their operating costs. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have said before, we are serving a deep radical reform that will take advantage of all the comparative advantages of rural areas. In this effort we will do better for another reason. We are already working with regional selfgovernment. We have allocated 37% of the resources of the Rural Development Programme, not only because we have a common target but, above all, because the government believes that cooperation is a one-way path. We would like, ladies and gentlemen, to make the commitment that we had in the run-up to the election. Decentralisation by self-government, marrying our own strategic design with knowledge of their own approach to local capabilities. I mean in terms of regional self-government. All of this is going to give a fresh air to the entrepreneurship of the rural economy, which is now evident that in the coming years it will have a leading role in the recovery of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, during the debates in Parliament's committees as a whole, the bodies - despite some of their objections - were positive towards the development law and the regulations it contains. There were few people who saw nothing positive and stood in a zero way in the law - I experienced it some time ago - particularly as regards the framework of the cooperatives, where you imagine of six thousand cooperative seals operating, economically viable, only ten. We went to make some intervention and was completely vaguely treated when the problems are running and they have to be solved. I fear, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, that you are out of place and time and that you are still going on with the foolish dams and the political micro-consciousness. You will not even succeed in responding to the tactics you are following. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Your attempt to create a climate of indignation for the government, the so-called demand for elections, the 'demand' and the related ones, cannot, ladies and gentlemen, find a resonance on society. Of course, ladies and gentlemen of PASOK, we have not said that you are the ones who adopt the slogan'resign'. You have a permanently negative attitude, which smacks into the day-to-day waters of anti-government disinformation. Your misunderstanding really deserves a prize. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, no matter how much you do not wish, this government will succeed. You will go out of waiting, expectation in expectation and will eventually be disappointed, waiting for the failure that will not come. The development law is here. He's going to be tested in the real economy tomorrow. It would also be useful for you, but especially for the place, to all set back to recover the land, to recover the economic life for the good of our people and our country. Then we find time for any differences between us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u303	Thank you, Mr. Apostleu. Mr Kavvada, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u304	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the development law is now coming to a debate in a difficult economic environment. It comes at a time when there is a tragic lack of liquidity. Businesses have to deal with a hostile business environment, which is even worse with the new taxes imposed by the government in recent weeks. The bill comes at a time when the country and regions are able to survive needing support, practical support. She, no matter how much we look, we won't find her in this development project. You have ridiculed the citizens twice with the election and once with the referendum. Stop these communal tricks at last. Do not mock every honest businessman, every man who supports his hopes in this law. Many healthy businesses in the country had supported their hopes in this law. Unfortunately, you disappoint them. But it seems that government officials are addicted to lies, to big words and delusional ones. Ladies and gentlemen, once the Greek economy needs 100 billion euros to invest in the next few years, you bring in a law that, if everything goes well, will throw into the country about 600 million euros a year. Is that what you have to make available to the private sector that is suffering, when the state's dues to private individuals amount to EUR 6.7 billion? You have overdue, ladies and gentlemen of the government, to bring this law to the House. This is something I could justify if, in the meantime, you had set up an integrated information system in the Ministry for Development Law, a system by which all transparency rules would be respected and the investment file would be properly ensured from the date of submission of the application by the last date of payment. But you didn't do that either. There is no guarantee that the evaluation process will be transparent when two assessors now have only one for each proposal. In addition, the evaluation criteria are unclear and the selection of the immediate assessment lacks documentation. Another insane aspect of this bill is that it punishes investors of the previous development law, effectively abolishing the continuity of the state. The extensions to be made for investments in previous development are suffocating. You do not take into account the real economic conditions, the capital controls and the lack of funding from the banks. I think, Minister, that you should see the deadlines and criteria again. In addition, instead of simplifying the procedure, you are strengthening bureaucracy by giving the relevant Minister overpower. I note that, in order for the law to be activated, some thirty ministerial decisions are needed, more of which are common. Ladies and gentlemen, you are completely out of marketplace. This development law is not developmental. Most importantly, you don't understand that this bill comes in a climate of recession, zero liquidity and tax storm. You should at least be aware of the economic circumstances of small and medium-sized enterprises, the protagonist of the Greek economy. You should have understood why existing companies do not want and cannot place new funds in the country. You should have understood why no new investments are coming. On the contrary, those who still exist in the country are looking to leave as soon as possible. You haven't taken any of the conditions you've created. You do not even recognize even now that companies have survived in conditions of recession, absolute economic suffocation without liquidity, with bank racks closed, with capital controls strangling even more small and large businesses. I ask you, Minister: in this environment, is it possible to bring about a development law that does not give advances on the implementation of investments? Are you asking every businessman to find money in the crisis and, in the first instance, to finance his investment? Where'd he get it from, Minister? You're out of reality, because you're also putting a profit clause on it, which is completely inappropriate. You're asking for seven years of profit. Really, what company can have seven years of continuous profitability in the crisis? You have no contact with the market. Ladies and gentlemen, the knife has reached the bone. The private sector has broken down, business is closing, tourism is not going as well as you think and the unemployed are growing. You tell us you will create jobs with this law. You're not just deeply late, you have ideological obsession and you have no idea how the free market works. You have no idea how the economy and society can recover. It proves every day your words and works. It seems that your aim is not to develop the place, but to strengthen the poverty of the Greek people, in order to continue to govern. You're hooked in power and you don't see the damage you're doing to the place. You do not see that the country is emptying from all its productive powers. You can't see it's drying from young people leaving for abroad. You don't see that in the private economy oxygen is over. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, with the bill you brought, only growth won't come. This bill alone cannot be said to be developmental. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u305	Mr. Karras filed an application for unconstitutionality, for the provision of Article 496/25 from 15-6-2016 Ministerial Amendment, that it is contrary to Article 94(4) of the Constitution, which excludes the participation of ordinary judges in administrative committees. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the House, which I read to you, "the President of Parliament and any Member of the Parliament or of the Government may request that the House give a decision on specific objections to the constitutionality of a bill." The Rules of Procedure do not include anything about the amendments. Because if that were the case, Mr Kararas, then every amendment would have to be made to the unconstitutional process, so in practice the House would not discuss. In any case, if the amendments are included in the new Regulation, there will be no objections. As the Rules of Procedure have now, unfortunately, never been discussed on an amendment or unconstitutional to date. To date there has been no debate on unconstitutionality on an amendment to this current Regulation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u306	Mr President, may I have the floor on the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u307	Mr President, I too request the floor on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u308	Please, Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u309	The Rules of Procedure when they provide for the objection of unconstitutionalism, Mr President, at the stage of the first debate, refer to a specific bill which has one section, one beginning, one middle and one end, similar to that which Parliament is trying to adopt. In this case, it has been abused by this House - I do not know from the previous ones and I am not referring to the Bureau, I am referring to the Government - which, in the form of amendments, introduces autonomous legislation, such as this one. This is of no relevance, Mr President, to development investment. It has nothing to do with the transitional provisions of the same law concerning the settlement of matters of the past for previous development laws. It now has one self-interest, which refers to issues of procedure, the provision of asylum and immigration policy. In this sense, therefore, even if the Rules of Procedure are invoked, Mr President, I have a feeling, and I shall say so with all pity, that we now have a double violation of the Constitution. The first violation of the Constitution is that we refer to the Rules of Procedure and are covered by the Rules of Procedure, Mr President, who has not taken it into account in this case. Because the Rules of Procedure did not know or wanted to know that there would be a misuse of amendments and a bill, supplementing it at the last minute in its title 'and other provisions', would be a bill. It's a new term. At least I at my school in law school and later in the exercise of my profession did not meet the term "multi-project". I've learned him here at a great age. So I insist, Mr President. In the sense, therefore, we have a violation of Parliament's Constitution and Rules of Procedure, because an unrelated amendment is accepted. Secondly, we also have a violation of the Constitution, when the Rules of Procedure do not regulate the case of anti-constitutional amendments - we say that we exclude Parliament from taking a decision on constitutionality or not. I am not going to actually, Mr President, just say that. I can assure you that if we proceed with voting on this provision, there will be no union of judges in one month. There will be no judge who will want to participate in an administrative committee, such as in the last five years no honest judge is involved, so that it is not subject to any administrative official appointed by the Minister. I will insist on the objection of unconstitutionality and I would ask the House and you, Mr President, to put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u310	Mr. Carras, I listened carefully to your speech. I'll read the relevant...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u311	I heard. But the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, Mr President, are being violated.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u312	As regards what you said, I am reading the relevant passage from the Constitution, which says that a bill or a proposal for a law containing provisions which are irrelevant to their main object is not introduced for discussion. Add or amend unrelated to the main object of the bill or the proposal for a law is not introduced for discussion. However - the text continues below - in the event of a dispute - that is to say if this is called into question, as you say - then the House decides. In the event of a dispute, that is, the majority of the House resolves the matter. Do you realize that he is relegating the matter to the majority? What I told you before is that it does not include the procedure for the unconstitutionalisation of the amendments. You realise that if he had included it, it would not be possible for every amendment to have this debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u313	I have explained my view that it is not an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u314	He's respected.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u315	It's a cloaked amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u316	But I'm telling you, what the Rules and the Constitution say. So, in fact, I have to apply the text.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u317	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u318	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u319	I would like to speak on the application of the Rules of Procedure. By addressing the government, I would like to tell them that whatever we want, you do not allow us to sanctify. Where the House is calm and trying to see its issues, you come in a thousand ways to upset her. You now need the President of Parliament and the Bureau as a whole to make interpretations of the Rules of Procedure and of us to oppose our own interpretations. I am sure, Mr President, that the majority principle resolves matters. Definitely that. But why don't you let the debate take place on the objection that my colleague and the Centroon Union have tabled? This debate will give rise to the issue. Is it possible to be seen as unrecognised of the issues that may be created? The majority will vote on it, but it will have suffered the suffering of a debate that we would have had if you did not raise these matters with regard to the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure now. Article 100 says that. I would say, Mr President, that we still have a debate in principle, because the debate is a single one. Above all, however, I am opposed to the amendment coming now! So, by interpreting your Rules of Procedure, can you allow a government or a majority, to bring you a draft law that does not have the anti-constitutional provisions, to go beyond what you say in the Rules of Procedure of this House and, after overcoming it - because no one raised matters, why did it not have to take into account the provisions - to bring amendments and thus to withdraw from Parliament the right to exercise a right of this House? Why do you make that interpretation? It's an abusive interpretation you're making. Indeed, Mr President, there was a provision, a withdrawal and a return. We consider this to be a hunger for Parliament and an attempt to avoid specific debates? Why is the majority afraid, and why is the President afraid? Finally, I call for my experience, like you, to be elected together in 2000. I do not remember - I do not know the services of this House, if they can tell us - on an amendment, indeed, that a question of constitutionality has been raised in order to have been rejected.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u320	It's never happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u321	Listen, my President. I do not remember being put to the vote so that you would be rejected so that you could invoke a motion of censure. It has not been put, because it has not been put. As it has not been put, it does not mean that this is the interpretation of Rule 100 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. If it is put down and rejected, I would ask you to invoke this experience, because we will also take it into account. I would ask you to proceed with the debate on the objection. We'll deal with it quickly. If you insist on the Rules of Procedure, you simply add problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u322	As you can see, the Bureau is discussing with the legal services of this House and is not deciding on its own, to make this clear. The second thing I have to say is that it has not yet entered the bill, Mr Loverdo, is that the amendment is for discussion. That could - you know better - be another reason for discussing legal matters. He hasn't joined yet. It's for discussion right now. Mr Mouszalas will now have the floor, as the Minister responsible for immigration policy, to support the amendment. It has not yet been joined to have the debate on unconstitutionalism and if the regulation that does not allow it, as you see it, still allowed it. So he hasn't joined yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u323	So, Mr President, you say that it is proposed and that we re-examine the debate on the objection after it has been put forward. We agree with that. So you're keeping this up for later, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u324	Mr. Muzala, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u325	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the amendments tabled by the Ministry of Immigration yesterday caused legitimate reactions, in my view. That is why we have decided to bring in as an amendment what is really urgent. As you know, right now on the islands and inland we have a huge number of people in Greek data. On the islands we have eight thousand people who have all applied for asylum. This has never happened in our history, and it is certain that 90% will also apply for appeals. In order to deal with the situation, we invited committees that existed from the back lock to work. These have an obligation until the end of the year to examine thirteen thousand older appeals and we have eight thousand. So the new appeals had to be made. Something that could be blamed - and if that happens, I take all my responsibility and give me my indebtedness - is why we didn't build these committees from the outset. We didn't predict the situation, we didn't see it directly in the depth it might have had. As you know, the agreement had just begun to be implemented and so we created some committees, which, yes, had evidence of independence, but had an incredibly long bureaucratic process to build, the service actors calculate at least two years. However, ladies and gentlemen, the game on the islands is played in the next few months. We don't have that luxury.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u326	Having become wiser than my contacts in Europe, we are making an amendment to the way the appeal committees are to be set up, which guarantees independence by putting two judges on the presumption of independence. The third member will be a member of the High Commissioner or a member of the Committee on Rights. And if he does not accept or if he cannot, then he will be appointed by the Minister. We are still setting up educational criteria, while they were not and had to come out by ministerial decision and no one is more qualified in the Refugee Law than the administrative courts. So these committees are really an urgent necessity. Fifteen days back to go by getting into a new bill, it's going to be a damage to the country. They have their independence, they are fair to refugees and immigrants in a much better way than they did. They have a speed in their creation in relation to earlier and a possibility to make decisions faster. I could tell you a lot of things, for why this establishment of the appeal committees is better. I just want to tell you that there is no other country in Europe, where the appeal committees, those of the backlog, have been set up in this way. The committees that we are now building are committees which are very similar to the French law and which are fully compatible with the law of Germany, Sweden, Denmark and the Netherlands, countries known to defend human rights, but also with the effectiveness of their mechanisms. That's what we aspired to do. He was involved with other things, and that's why I'm sorry. In conclusion, I would like to tell you that paragraph 10, which says that design needs, the conclusion of an amendment to public contracts, following my decision to download only the issue of the appeals in today's plenary, incorrectly intruded. I already withdrew her...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u327	Is he coming out?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u328	Yeah, I've already withdrawn it from the law school. I apologise for that. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] For constitutionality and I end with it, there are decisions of the Council of State. The committees operate like a court. They have all the things they need so that the active judges can be. It's specified...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u329	What paragraph does that say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u330	Ten or 11, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u331	The planning of needs, the planning process, the conclusion and modification of public contracts, and the implementation and implementation of public procurement, irrespective of the amount, may be carried out by way of derogation from any general or specific provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u332	What are you reading, Minister? So we can read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u333	Paragraph 10.4. She's the one you're withdrawing?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u334	Paragraph 10.4. Yeah, I withdrew that with legal improvement, Mr. Loverdo. He delivered from the above. My pursuit today and the great need for our country is to unite as much as we can in the appeal committees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u335	Thank you, Mr. Muzala.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u336	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u337	How many minutes do you want, Mr. Teddy?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u338	Four minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u339	What happened, Mr. President? Since we have an issue of the objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u340	Excuse me, Mr. Comrade, I didn't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u341	We have the issue of objection pending. Will the debate be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u342	Oh, on that!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u343	Mr President, we are asking for the floor on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u344	Mr President, I have asked for the floor on the Rules of Procedure a long time ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u345	I have no objections to the President-in-Office's precedent on the Rules of Procedure. That's the class of the thing, I'll listen to him and I'll be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u346	Mr Amyras, you have the floor on the Rules of Procedure. How many minutes do you want? Wait a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u347	Just a minute. Under Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, no amendment can be introduced if it is completely irrelevant to the draft law or the proposal for a law. First of all, Mr Muzala, I honestly understand the pressing question of the committee being set up. Last night, however, twenty minutes before midnight, with seven people all measured in the Chamber, this amendment comes to us, which does not only have the urgency of setting up the committees but also has a line of many issues, even for divorces between Greeks and not Greeks. We requested in your absence last night, despite the Rules of Procedure which require that you have introduced the amendment, its withdrawal. You did it. I understand, I can tell you this again, sincerely - and the words you have said show a man with reason, open horizon and a spiritual desire to help and not debate it - that in the way you introduce this regulation through the amendment, you are wrong in what you want to achieve. We see some of these as positive, but why do you not bring it in the form of an urgent draft law tomorrow or Monday, to discuss it both through the committee, through the suffering of questions, to give the answers you can see that all our colleagues are looking forward to obtaining them, because we do not have time, in five hours the debate is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u348	Last time we voted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u349	Yes, last time we voted. In other words, we have the positive and open attitudes. I suggest you withdraw the amendment otherwise, otherwise yes, to support the start of a debate on the objection of anti-constitutionalism tabled by the Union of Centres and to settle the issue, even with Article 76 of the Constitution, for this House to decide. Of course you, the ruling party and we'll meet at the same point. I call on you, Minister, to withdraw the amendment and bring it with a bill in the form of an emergency, to discuss everything here openly, nicely and responsibly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u350	Mr. Dendias has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u351	Mr President, the order of things is, I imagine, the first place on the issue of unconstitutionalism and infringement of the Rules of Procedure which have been put forward and then, if rejected, on the substance of the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u352	He doesn't accept it. Because it is an amendment, we cannot discuss unconstitutionalism on the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u353	In any case, it is clear that there is an infringement of the Rules of Procedure here, so I do not think anyone needs to discuss it. You will, of course, tell me the government's permanent argument is that this was the case. That does not stand as a argument. In any case, the present case has an additional feature of provocativeness towards the national Parliament and the national delegation. Yesterday's tabling and withdrawing and not at all - I say again - lacking selfish addition of articles, which do not honor the author. I would like to ask you, Minister, to name the author if it is not you. The provision that says that we can do projects in breach of any provision of law, whenever we retrospectively do what has happened since 2015, has not intruded here by mistake. The fact that you are withdrawing it today does not relieve you of your responsibility, because you have tabled it first and reinstated it. These are not things that honor no minister, how much more of you. As far as the issue raised for the participation of judges is concerned, there is a question here, ladies and gentlemen, as follows: The act granting asylum is not a judicial decision, it is an administrative act. As a result, the participation of judges is likely - and I say this in the mood to help - afflicts the Constitution. In order not to think that these are afterward legal paradises, there is a decision of the Council of State or 3036/15, which we found in the ten minutes of the time given to us, with which a judicial officer is involved in committees for the resolution of forest disputes, as well as an administrative act, has been judged to be unconstitutional. We therefore risk what happens? To declare all the decisions of these committees unconstitutional and non-existent by the courts and to engage in a new cycle. I have to say that on immigration, Minister, the sloppyness of the government you have directly confessed to - you are aware of this - is well known. What is happening and what we are under is not from God, is not predictable. We had all predicted it. If you look at the Minutes of the House, in the speeches of most of the parliamentary representatives, everything is written. What's gonna happen, who's gonna make asylum applications, how the system's gonna block, what's gonna happen to us. Since the beginning of 2015, since the first day, when with the so-called advantage of the heart, we have opened the borders and said "those who come" and even burned the previous ones when the athletics of Idomenos was not visible and started talking to Amygdaleza. On the point of order, Mr President. The only thing that can be done here, to be serious, even in what is left in it, is that the Minister withdraws it, that we look at the legal issue, and I am glad - I am glad to say again - to help him with what he needs. Because regardless of the huge errors of the government, we do not want the country to suffer the damage, and in any case, we are witnessing the human rights of those who are unfortunate fate that have brought them to live in Greece in these circumstances at this time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u354	Mr Stathakis, Minister for Finance, asked and has the floor. Mr. Stathakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u355	Mr Tindemans, I propose that we reduce the tone and not analyse the immigration policy of the country, the government and not open up issues that do not exist. The data is simple. In this bill the only amendment that has been accepted is the amendment concerning committees, a major issue of national importance for many, and in this sense, it goes further in this draft law. I repeat that is the point. If you agree that this is an urgent matter, we must move on to it - and there is a broad consensus on its feasibility and necessity - and discuss the substance. From there on, I do not think we need to raise issues of more general immigration policy or other issues. It was also made clear yesterday and for today that this debate does not make any sense. The clarifications have been made. That is the issue at issue. I am making it very clear that it is an amendment that we said yesterday would be accepted. It is a matter of urgency, and it is a matter of much wider importance. It is strictly specific, and it is only for the committee to be set up, and that is what we can discuss. If there is a question of the anti-constitutionality of the committee being set up, I think we can continue this debate on the substance and on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u356	Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u357	Mr President, I would like to turn to the amendment. Because I was the one who first raised a question of constitutionality or not, you will allow me to say just two words. This amendment, as it comes, goes beyond the issues, whether or not it is relevant to the bill, has the following content. That independent appeal committees are recommended, which are responsible for discussing, taking and adopting a decision on appeals against which they shall take a position on administrative decisions, on decisions of an administrative authority. I'm on my way to the next one. The independent Boards of Appeal shall operate in a three-member composition. Good. The independent appeal committees shall be formed by a joint decision of the Ministers for Home Affairs, Administrative Reconstruction, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, and shall consist of two judicial officers of the ordinary administrative courts, designated upon request by the Commissioner-General of the ordinary administrative courts, and one Greek citizen. I am therefore going to Article 94 of the Constitution, paragraph 4. Any other jurisdiction of an administrative nature, as laid down in the law, may be delegated to the civil or administrative courts. Administrative nature, yes, but not with the participation of a citizen. Here is the unconstitutionality, Mr President. Either we entrust a court, tactical or administrative court, to judge decisions on appeals or we cannot have an institution consisting of a citizen, even if it has the majority of all of us and two ordinary judges. Why am I saying that and I insist? I do not want to hold a sterile opposition, Mr President. I want to protect this and I want to help resolve the issues. I would remind you, Mr President: at the moment, it is not possible for the commissioner of the ordinary administrative courts to propose judges. It should be the plenary session of the courts. It must be made by decision on the whole. This is my first observation. My second observation. Have you ever seen in your experience, at least I didn't get used to it, some of the willingness of regular judges to participate in administrative committees and interact with citizens? That's never happened. I would like to remind you of something else, which is more serious. The decisions of the independent authorities referred to in the appeals are challenged by the previous law of Mr Mouszala before the administrative court. In fact, I asked Mr Paradoxopoulos, and I asked him this: why should we be the administrative court and eat five years to judge a asylum dispute or not take it to one-member administrative courts to finish it in ten, fifteen days? Mr Paradoxopoulos told me - these are in the Minutes of the House, Mr President - that he has the impression that there is no such possibility. So I say to you, and I close, that there will be no court to designate judges on this matter. I'll remind you of something else that's not present. Tomorrow there is a panic meeting of all the associations that want to solve their problems. Are we coming today and telling them that in violation of the Constitution, will we invite you to take these actions with non-judicials? Mr President, if we fail to reach a solution today, I assure you, with all due respect, that the government will not be able to resolve any asylum issues. They'll be conspired. There'll be people who deserve it. There will be people who have the right to the protection of asylum and you will not be able to give it out of ignorance perhaps. I do not know if the government has any other purposes, but it will be a criminal matter, because if it were to be judged for fifty thousand asylum cases, I would say to you, already with the previous law that Mr Moussalas proposed and granted a right of residence to those from the past five years, it had not been possible to judge their asylum issues. To give a solution, to say administrative committees, to plead appeals, to remove the judges and to move forward to resolve the matter. I also know the meaning of the independence of the judges from within, if you like. It is a very serious matter for judicial associations to accept participation in administrative committees under any lullaby, whatever name, because they are not even independent. It does not say anywhere that there is a regulation proposed by the government, which will be in the form of an administrative procedure. He doesn't say anything about how the committees work. I therefore propose - and I say this very seriously - that the provision be amended and that we move forward. We will not object and vote for it if it does not cause these problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u358	From the government's point of view, does a minister want to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u359	Then.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u360	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u361	Mr. Loverdo, let's hear something younger, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u362	We have asked for the floor, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u363	Hey, I didn't see you. Excuse me. I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u364	We have no problem talking to Mr. Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u365	The Bureau looks to the centre and does not see the wings. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u366	First of all, this amendment is completely irrelevant to the bill. It is therefore against the Rules of Procedure of the House and cannot be discussed. That's the first. Secondly, we should go to the essence of the matter. This is the big problem, in our view, and the unconstitutional. First of all, what are we going to do about the substance? It designates these independent appeal committees in the composition of two judicial officers to carry out administrative tasks which, by the Constitution, cannot do so. It can't be done. This process is confronting the Constitution. It is the administrative tasks, other functions and other duties of the judicial officers. In this respect, there is a very big issue in our opinion. Where does this amendment lead? Secondly, beyond this issue, it leads to a change in the composition of the appeal committee, which was envisaged. The three committees will now have two judicial officers appointed by the general commissioner, namely the government's representative and not the Court's plenary. So the government wants to control the committees with fire and iron, because so far their work has accepted all the appeals on the substance - except in two cases - that the Syrian refugees were entitled to asylum. In this respect, the government wants to check the composition of the committee in order to implement the agreement between the European Union and Turkey by fire and iron and to further restrict the right of asylum for refugees, such as Syrians. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We had expressed our opposition to this bill, which was passed, that it restricts and violates all concepts of right of asylum. From this point of view, through this procedure, it wants to limit this right in any way. For this very reason and it imposes the specific composition of the committee, which is unacceptable. We say that this amendment should be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u367	Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u368	Mr President, the debate on the substance is beginning now. You rejected an objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u369	I didn't reject anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u370	I would like to place myself on the amendment to the substance, in the needs of the legislative work that determines...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u371	An objection of anti-constitutionalism has been raised here under Rule 100 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. I read that Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure. You heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u372	But let me say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u373	It does not talk about unconstitutionalism on the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u374	Let me say. We've been through this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u375	Not to tell you something that can help. Article 100 does not speak of an unconstitutional amendment. Article 101 speaks of unconstitutionalism and says another, if you like, form. It says that 'disputes pursuant to Article 74(5) of the Constitution, as to whether an amendment relates to the main object of the bill or of the proposal for a law - another thing, that is - submitted by the relevant Minister or in writing by 1/10 of the total number of Members. In the debate on the disputes... etc.’ We're talking about another issue now. No such objections have been raised. The objection is made to Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure. He answered here. Article 101 speaks of another thing and wants another process that you know better than I do. So we are not talking about the objection under Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure, we are talking about another thing. This has not been submitted on the basis of Article 101.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u376	Yes, sir. Mr President, as far as the functioning of the House is concerned, the Government has not allowed the House to function as it should and nothing should be left standing. At a meeting today exemplary, with regard to the course of the legislative work, we have a disturbance and you are now leading to a failure to implement the Rules of Procedure of this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u377	Who is she?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u378	What you are saying now about Article 101 is other than others.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u379	I told you, it's a different matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u380	Allow me!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u381	The Rules are clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u382	I would not raise the Rules of Procedure. I'm on it. You rejected them in a way - how can I say it - without any support and you are now coming back, at the end of that debate and your rejection of Mr Carras's objection, completely legitimized, to tell us more than others. Mr President, with what you have done today - if you wish, I did not intend to speak - which the President of this House and you, have done so far, what have you thought of the application of the Rules of Procedure of this House? That if a government wants to bring an anti-constitutional provision, it will bring it an amendment to avoid the suffering of the debate. Finally! There goes this one of the prisoners. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Second the prisoner. Minister, for you, on the day following the regulation you bring here, there is Article 89(2) of the Constitution. Parliamentary spokesman of the Centroon Union, Mr Karras, referred to it. Mr. Amyras invoked it. Mr. Dendias invoked it. Mr. Karathanasopoulos invoked it. We cannot have anything to do with each other, regardless of political positions. Let me read it to you. The Constitution tells you. By way of exception, judicial officers shall be allowed to elect members of the Athens Academy or the teaching staff of the AEI and to take part in councils by committees exercising disciplinary, audit or judicial powers. It does not refer to administrative committees! Mercy! We tell you, take it back, discuss with the Presidents of the Supreme Courts, say that your order can walk and equip the law with those typical, at least, conditions, which will make the courts say that the subject of their work is auditing, it is judicial, it is something that is permitted. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] On the substance, ladies and gentlemen, I beg your pardon very much, because we are seeing you in a good eye, we have voted on you. We voted for the draft law you brought us a moment ago! We voted for it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u383	Please, Mr. Loverdo, complete!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u384	You come after a while and you change the committee! Why do you change the committee?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u385	Please, finish!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u386	Because the committee stipulates that Turkey has issues and does not return the applicants. You're coming now to say that to cure this, you're going to make bigger!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u387	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u388	What will the individual Kremasti say here when you bring this amendment back? So gather for your own good, not for our own good!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u389	Mr. Loverdo, please! You don't have infinite time. The question concerning Rule 100 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure has been closed. I've read it to you a hundred times. You don't have to be a lawman to say there's a question with Article 100. I told you that on another point, which has not been objected, there could be a debate, but not on it. This issue has been closed! So I come back and give the floor to the President of the Union of Centres, Mr Leventis, who asked for it. Mr President, you have the floor for 15 minutes, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. But we'll have a tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u390	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, good evening to everyone. We are talking today about development law and one would expect that after the development law is heard, there will be some smile and some optimism. With the current climate, i.e. with capital controls and banks, which suffer additional losses of EUR 2 to EUR 2.5 billion monthly due to red loans, can we discuss growth? If you think we can, we're making fun of ourselves! After today's law, does anyone think foreign investors will come, making sure the country doesn't come out of the euro? Oh, no! Did you see anyone else say that they passed laws, after which is it stupid not to go to Greece and go to Cyprus, Bulgaria, Romania or anywhere? I therefore believe that this law will end up useless, as the 2014 Act concluded. As of 2014, there was a development law. In my recent visit to my hometown, in Velica Messinia, next to my village, which is Messini, they gave me an investment model for a person who bought three hundred acres, has entered into the previous development law, deposited the required guarantee letters, amounting to 18.5 million euros, and the investor was caught in the projects and permits that involved an investment of 100 million euros, and the Ministry was unable to disburse 1 euro, due to the procedures and bureaucracy. This investment concerns the construction of a five-star hotel with many villas, which will accept VIP American tourists. This investment does not go any further and will run down because this gentleman is not able to carry out 50% by the end of 2016. This investment won't be made. It's an investment of 100 million euros. You may not know it, but of course the relevant ministers must know about this investment, because they also visited the Prime Minister in question a long time ago. I'm sure Mr. Tsipras knows what I'm talking about. In this country where we look for investments, there is a man ready to invest and we do not extend for a year the opportunity to do so, while we are the perpetrators of the delays that have occurred with the existing bureaucracy, which the government is trying to make through other statements. This is an example. I would like to say a few words about Messinia, because in Messinia I had gone three months ago and was asked by the mayor to help me in two or three things, on a new road that takes place, on Risomulos Kalamata road, and on the beach, so that there can be regeneration. Also Kalamata and Rhodes are candidates for a cultural capital. Three regions of Greece are candidates. I, in my attempt to help with this, speaking to some journalist in Thessaloniki, said that the beach of Kalamata is lower. In fact, I used a little bad word for which I apologize. I said that sometimes she's disgusting, as there's overloading with tables and chairs, to overuse the local businessmen on the beach, on their anguish to make money for people and to make them live under the present difficult economic conditions. While the interview was twenty minutes, a Thessaloniki journalist took a two-minute and sent it down to Messinia and said that I curse Messinia, I, who was born in Messini, and I am commanded by my father to help the Messinians whether they are communists or right-wing people, or whatever they are, when they come to my office, to think of my brothers and sisters. Because they said some phrases against me, I have to say: the mayor asked me to regenerate the beach and the beach of Kalamata is one of the most beautiful beaches in the country. For many years, 1 euro has not fallen on the beach and I wanted to help. Take care of the local players - because both SYRIZA and New Democracy have a very tough local establishment in Messinia - to take care of how they are specifically expressed for Vassilis Leventis, because so far the Messinians, when they enter parties offices, are only asking for rosphets. The only one who dealt with social issues in the region - and for all of Greece that applies - is me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u391	I'm sorry. The Messinians requesting ruffelettes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u392	No, to God! Never.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u393	Generalization hurts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u394	Don't interrupt. Go on, Mr. Leventis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u395	Especially when the Messinians enter your offices, they talk about the Cyprus issue. You talk about Cyprus all the time. Don't doubt the euro, they're talking about it. When you visit your offices, they talk about the Cyprus issue. Yes, sir. I accept it. It's not their fault, because they're just people who have problems. I didn't blame them for that. Besides, do you know why you're being taken away from each other in different areas? Because you have promised them personal demands, especially because large crimes of a huge social range have not yet been committed by you, since not only have any chance of developing it. The promises you made by the various parties - and by the New Democracy - at a personal level have angered the world and made it use heavy phrases. That's my opinion. After we solved the Kalamata issue, we're going to the KIC. I want to say a few words about the JRC. Mr. Koutsoubas appeared yesterday in the "National" and listened to what he said, talking about me: "We said "lodge", because from the first moment that was elected in Parliament, he began to propose anti-grassroots measures, to make proposals that played the role of "lodge", so that the government could open up a number of issues. The insurance policy has opened it first. Kutsubas says that now. I want to say to the JRC and Mr Koutsouba - and I deliver to the Practical Publications printed by the enikos.gr - that if he believes that from me he has opened the insurance policy, this reveals that the JRC is sleeping upright. I'm kind of saying. Didn't you hear that if we don't open the insurance, soon no Greeks and no Greek pensions will be taken? Did you hear from me? If the Centro Association hadn't entered the House, would SYRIZA not go through insurance laws? Because that's what Mr. Koutsubas said, I started asking for it. [[At this point, the President of the Association of Centres of Vasilis Leventis presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I asked that the trags thirty thousand triple pensions of some people merge into one. One million two thousand double pensions to merge into one and no one to be more than 1,500 euros. Yes, I did. Why do you think I asked for that? In order to save money, not to put URBAN, not to put VAT on the islands, to have a comfort in reforms. Then I asked for the eighty thousand pensions of the rich to be abolished. Is the JRC saddened that the Union of Centres is proposing to abolish the pensions of the rich? Because even days ago in Patras where TEBE held a general assembly, they rebelled - and were several - of the JRC, because I am asking for a reduction in pensions. What pension reduction am I asking? In the name of one and a half million unemployed, in the name of those eating metropolitans, I ask for sacrifices. You in the JRC appear as supporters of wealth when you say that I am asking for a reduction. Mr. Katrugalos left at 3.078 a month the maximum pension. Is he good to leave her? He says: "They gave us contributions." In Australia they paid contributions, but they were cut off from pensions to give the only parental mother, the disabled, to the tenant. We cannot support all the defects and, at the same time, support poverty! It's not practical! Investment does not come to create new revenues, so we mock the world when we keep the maximum pension at 3.078 euros. That's my opinion. The JRC did not understand why I am asking for some cuts. What am I asking? These cuts in the name of some people who are unemployed. You tell me what kind of JRC programme you've got. I heard Mr Koutsuba in the same interview then saying that if communism prevails, there will be no other parties. They don't need, he says, other parties. You guys are nice! Very nice! Let's reward you! I would like to say a few words about Thessaloniki, which gave about 7% of the last elections in the Central Association. The DEAD was presented there. It is a company of the Municipality of Thessaloniki which has the local TV "TV 100". I, in my speech recently in Thessaloniki, said that he had four hundred old employees and became two hundred twenty. That's what I said in my speech. A announcement was made by this municipal company, the PPC, that it's not like that, that the real number is two hundred ten years old, and now it's a hundred nine and that I'm a liar, a slander, I'm like that, I'm a different. I apologise for the mistake I made. I didn't remember the numbers well. I'm sorry. They used to be two hundred and now they're a hundred nine. What does that mean? That about half the employees didn't need it. What if we extend this to all the municipalities in the country? Because elsewhere they have radios, services, sewers, etc. These employees are old. So it was at a time when it was two hundred ten. Why didn't they try to denounce the supernumerals? They didn't make any effort. So, here we have a clue, that there were double employees on a service, and half of them stayed and this service works wonderfully with half. Is that what it means? That the Centro Association, which calls for research to be carried out in municipalities, in CECE and in the public for the responsibilities of officials, does not ask for it to be made redundant. Officials are wrong if they think I'm asking for this. My agony is to limit spending and overnumbers to transfer to other services, to make their bread proudly, with dignity. Because so far we have put all the burden on the private sector, and almost the public is 'early cows'. My anxiety about spending cuts made me deal with Thessaloniki. I don't have anything with any employees to excite me. My agony about the possibility of being overnumbered and some of them useless and therefore, not giving up, this anguish made me interested in Thessaloniki. And I'm sure that now all Greece is listening to it, that a hundred nineteen employees are working on Thessaloniki's TV. All the private TVs in Thessaloniki, even the "MAKEDONIA" that is all Greek, do you know how many employees they have? They've got fifteen, thirty. So, if it wasn't for the city's TV, would it be a hundred nineteen? Aren't we going to protect the city's money? So, because the municipality pays them, isn't that the money of Greek citizens? Okay, it's not. After they pay the city fees, it's a problem solved. They should know, therefore, that I do not want to fire the conscientious, especially the conscientious. But I can't, my conscience is not picking up when one and a half million people are unemployed and when a great crowd eats at metropolitans and from there and with tips, we can't tolerate slow public payrolls. I'm asking for control. Let me apologize for what I said, because the courage of apology has always had it as a human. Research on how many people work, where they work and what responsibilities they cover will all burdens ever be done in the public or private sector alone? So let's get this started. That's all I want. I'm not turning against the employees, as some people thought. And what was the result? While I made a speech with a great crowd, and the same day George Papandreou did another point, and he went on to have a hundred people, the next day the newspaper "MAKEDONIA" only wrote about George Papandreou and the Centroon Union didn't even write if it exists. This is the hatred of some. But I'm over it. Thessaloniki 7% knows how to do it and 17% and 27% for the Centroon Association. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And I don't create personal vendettas. I'm putting the newspaper on the record. It's from the next day of the gathering, June 9th. [[Mr Vassilis Leventis presents for the minutes the above-mentioned newspaper, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] There is an ALCO survey which says that more than 80% -82% of the world believes growth will not come in this world. The whole world is crazy, crazy, and you guys at SYRIZA are the great people you're good at telling the truth? I wish we could see it. You'll be national heroes if you can. If you don't make it, what's wrong with you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u396	You'll be justified.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u397	What's going to happen to us? Are you threatening us?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u398	Am I the problem? Is that right? What's gonna happen to you? A government that says the second semester will come growth if it doesn't come, will it not? Then there's another form of emotion. I'd rather not express it. Please. In any case, I wanted to say a few words about Mr Stournara. In the past, I was the one who said that I considered him among the people, the technocrats of a value. Stournaras came out and said: “3.5% is too much. It has to be 2%". Why didn't he say so before the evaluation, and the relevant ministers should know how far the surplus can reach and said so afterwards? Mr Stournaras also ignores that the less surplus we have will remain the Memorandum. Do you know that in SYRIZA? If foreigners accept to become 1% of the surplus, have you now signed a Memorandum by 2018, do you know until the memorandum goes 1%? You know that means more years in the memorandum? Mr Stournaras should have said so. I don't forgive him! I don't forgive him! I would also like to say something about the simple analogue, because you say you will simply act proportionately. It must be a simple analogue if you want to vote for the Centro Association. It must be, that is, the bonus must be zeroed, the bonus must be terminated, because in here if you are a hundred and forty-six of SYRIZA, the fifty are bonuses. You understand without a bonus how many you'll be. One of the prisoners, unless you don't know arithmetic.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u399	Others made him the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u400	First, the bonus should be abolished. Secondly, 3% stay because of Muslims. We do not object to that. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] You don't want to? I don't know. It's my opinion. I don't know what the Prime Minister will say, let him do whatever he wants. Third... [[Noise in the Chamber]] I don't even hear what you're saying, because you don't say anything. You have to say something to listen. If you really want a simple analogue, say it sincerely and we will vote. When Leonidas Kyrkos spoke of a mere analogy - and if I am not mistaken, Leonidas Kyrkos - he was talking about an inappropriate, simple analogue, that is, 7% he gets a party, seven times three, twenty-one MPs. This is what Leonidas Kyrikos meant and that there is no self-powered government, if you don't have 50% plus a vote of the valid ballots in the elections. It's clear. So, that's the message I'm sending. No debate and no transaction will be made, just proportionally. Andreas Papandreou betrayed her. He put it in "September 3rd" main article and then found the golden chairs on the right and remained the reinforced one. So far you have betrayed her. Here's the challenge to show diversity! Suggest it and we are here - I do not know what the other parties will do - to vote on it. And the change in the constitution is that the President of the Republic should leave the people. If he comes out of the people, ladies and gentlemen, even with low responsibilities to remain, he will be strengthened. If he is reinforced, have you imagined what will happen if we have conflicts of Prime Minister and President of the Republic? They are foolish those who propose to come out of the people because they want us to return to Julian 1965 and clashes. Watch out for that. This debate has to end. The Constitution doesn't suffer because it's wrong and we have to fix it. The removal of the law on the liability of Ministers and something else, because it is a requirement of society, but the Constitution does not, because we have a wrong constitution. The Constitution suffers because we break it, because we don't keep it. Since his failure to respect, he has the Constitution. Furthermore, you must know that the Constitution - I am not a legal person, a political engineer - is wiser and only wiser you can do so. If you try to tear it down, it'll cost you, you'll pay for it. Watch out for that. Do not the government play with the Constitution, in order to impress, unless the only purpose of the government is to get people's attention from the essentials, the great, the cut-off pensions, wage cuts, the other, and to turn it into winds and water in talks meaningless, unless this disorientation is the only purpose. The debates have begun and I see that the newspapers are developing many pages about whether the President is coming out of the people. And Constantine Mitsotakis has been saying that the President of the Republic should leave the people for thirty years. It seems that Mr. Mitsotakis is involved in the 1965 events and wants distances again. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the President is ringing.]] That's what I have to say. I have no other explanation, because he is the first to go with his actions and to do with the ERA government and then the junta came, it became the tragedy of Cyprus. We paid this very expensively, and a man at Mr. Mitsotakis' age had to be more intact. I have nothing to say except to show a sadness about Mr. Voutsi. I'm going to tell her that sadness, since she's come to honor me and listen to me. One night, returning from Thessaloniki, I heard you give an interview. A journalist asked you: 'Does the state grant need to be reduced?' And you started and said that we were in the European system, that you took out a whole lot of money, so that the state grant would not be reduced. He asked you: 'Do you think the honourable Member's salary should be reduced?' So you said: 'We want independent MPs and so on, so that it does not fall'. Mr Voutsis, let us say straight: the people are now calling for sacrifices from Parliament. He doesn't ask for any excuses, so there won't be any sacrifices! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u401	Thank you. Mr Pavlides, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u402	Ladies and gentlemen, the new development law is being tabled at a time when the Greek economy is already in six years of stable recession and restructuring of the Greek productive model. At the same time, in the 2006-2016s gross capital investment fell by 65%. The annual formation of net fixed capital in the private economy since 2011 has been purely negative. Even the most conservative estimates refer to capital requirements of at least EUR 79 billion. To bring about a return to 2009 levels, you understand that it is too forbidden for the country's economic potential. That is why the law that the government is tabling today is a law that has no general and vague features. It has a specific form and is a law aimed at and seeking to solve specific problems with specific targeting. It establishes specific areas of intervention, sets priorities for specific categories of enterprises. In the previous development laws a significant concentration of investment costs and aid to a small number of enterprises was observed. A small group emerged and only a small group of companies were always permanently eligible, limiting the dispersion of aid to more extensive layers of Greek enterprises. The last three development laws identified six business groups - five in the energy sector and one in the tourism sector - as occupying a large part of the pie of total aid. In addition, only ninety-five companies and groups absorbed 25% of the total aid in four hundred investment projects. That is why the law we are tabling goes back to the level of aid that individual investment projects can receive in order to open the umbrella and disperse the development benefits of a much larger number of companies and groups. At the same time, development law aims to make use of the main competitive advantages we have as a country. In other words, it aims at developing the dynamic sectors where we have a comparative advantage, such as agri-foodstuffs, information and communication technologies, tourism, health services, the chemical industry, energy and shipping. It also aims at making use of the resources we have, in high-quality human capital and in exceptional climate conditions in the country. Greece has ranked sixth worldwide for 2015-2016 in the availability of scientists and engineers. A key, too, in my opinion, of the law's innovation is the fact that, contrary to what has been happening to date, we are mainly strengthening the performance and not the existence of expenditure, regardless of the end result. Finally, it is very important to define specific categories of aid based on spatiality, where the basic nature of the own contribution is removed. But here, Minister, there is a serious objection on the basis of the explanatory statement on page 9. It is right and good to note that at regional level some of the least developed regions in the country, such as the regions of the North Aegean, Epirus and the Ionian Islands, do not manage to raise significant investments over time. And indeed the data from Enterprise Greece indicate that per capita GDP of the Ionian Islands and especially Corfu lies several places below the Cyclades, Boeotia, Kozani, the Dodecanese and Florina. The Ionian Islands have many times been considered by the previous governments as second-speed islands to all favourable aid schemes and island interventions, as I would remind you - in VAT. In relation to Corfu's exclusion from its designation as a border island region, I would like to mention, first, that almost half of the island lies above the boundary of the expansion of the Greek Albanian border and second, we have six miles away from the saints of the Saranta with a closer distance to the area of Kouloura, just one nautical mile and the capital of the county, the city of Corfu is only five nautical miles away from the Albanian authorities. Also, the Municipal Units of Kassopalion, Thinali and Phaikon and almost all the northern part of the island are located in a mountain complex, in the area of Pantokra, at an altitude of nine hundred and five meters. And, unfortunately, even these municipalities are excluded from being characterized as mountainous on the island. I will testify for the Minutes and the map and certain elements of the distances, because some people obviously have the view that Corfu is not the most northwest part of Greece and that it is perhaps across from Patras. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Pavlides, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The chronic exceptions to the island from favourable political support from previous development laws have unfortunately led to a very low level of investment, at heavy cost to the final product produced, whether it is tourist or agri-food. I think that this exception is unfair and in no way understood by local society. So I think you should take this very seriously and show this interest in the final drafting of the bill, especially when there are serious objections raised by local society, local government and the chambers of the island. In closing this remark, I would like to say two words and finish the policy of Officerial Response. I consider the statement by the President of the Civilian Operations to be dangerous, that he personally makes the Prime Minister responsible for the security of citizens at today's gathering. Regardless of everyone's view of the political motives and the demand for this concentration, it is our position that no government should dismantle concentrations, even those who applauded when two and a half thousand chemicals fell into the Constitution. Let us not forget, however, that Mr Mitsotakis was the minister of a government that at a time of brutal police violence in the Constitution attacked thousands of citizens, and even two "dangerous" citizens for national security, Mickey Theodorakis and Manolis Glezos. A little shame doesn't hurt. The lessons about democracy, political responsibility and personal responsibility towards society are good to do them towards his party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u403	Mr. Beyalas, member of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u404	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it closes a six-day debate on a bill which clearly and we should have brought it to the House beforehand. However, we all know that the previous period was a time when the entire government and also the Greek society had its eyes turned where it should be, at the completion of the evaluation. This six-day debate has heard a lot and a lot of things. And as usual we heard the Civic Anti-Civilization taking us into account things that he was accusing us of before we brought the law. We have a different situation today, because, that is, we did this law which is not good. But, before we bring him, we were accused of bringing a development law in order to give this necessary line to society, but also the necessary message that Greece must go ahead. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] These reciprocating movements of Officer Opposition isn't the first time they've been happening. You give up on each other, when we do what you initially give up on us, again tell us that we do not do it properly and you don't want to vote on it. How can that be translated? But it's simple. There is no political direction from the Qualified Opposition today. There's a strategic planning problem, and that's your big problem. Why can one explain the fact that almost all the productive operators were positively opposed to the bill, with their comments, with their advice, with their proposals, and New Democracy? We have also heard the rapporteur from the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs saying: "But, you're giving them money. What are they gonna say? Do they not want them?’ That just sounded like a begging. If some people consider that entrepreneurs and investors are awkward, they are making a big mistake or, rather, they are deliberately doing so to justify this refusal and a shift towards the investment project and the investment law that we are going to vote on tonight. The absorption of the NRP has been reported so far only 1.3%. And the question was whether this plays an important role. But, ladies and gentlemen, the question is how much is the absorption of the NRP that has just begun, or how much has been announced by September? In any case, when will we have to see whether the money has been used up, whether it has been proclaimed or whether we should give them without a notice, so that we can give them to both public and private undertakings? We are coming here to respond to a matter. They're blaming us that we don't believe the investments. It's not in our philosophy. Obviously, ladies and gentlemen, you are not aware that we believe in other types of investment, not in those which you believe, that is to say in oligopolistic or monopolistic investments or in public investments, which are only to be made in order to create decals, to take sea-loving and to make them out in various tax havens. We believe in investment by small and medium-sized enterprises, where the heart of the Greek economy is. We believe in the investments that the Greek citizen can make and not the big capitalists, who only invest, do not do, but take the money for their personal pleasure and increase their personal property. Ladies and gentlemen, let us make one thing clear. This bill is certainly a tool. It's not panacea, it's not the mother from heaven, it's not the magic wand that will automatically solve the issues of the country's development. It is, however, this tool which, with the reluctance of private capital, will give the message to the Greek society that, yes, Greece, by closing the evaluation, is moving forward. It goes on to see a different kind of growth, a growth that will also have a social face, which respects industrial relations, will respect the Greek citizen. Friends and friends, I would also like to give another answer to something that has been heard: what is our government's plan? Do we really want to go to a capitalist development or something? But it's simple. The governments that ruled so far have not succeeded either. They have not succeeded in our country in a fully capitalist system in Europe and in the world making a capitalist economy either. It was an underdeveloped economy. We want to modernise this society, modernise this economy and drive our country's economy and our country into a socialist transformation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u405	Thank you, Mr. Beyla. Mr. Barriots has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u406	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it once again appeared in the debate before - and it relates to Mr Mouszala's amendment - how bad it is for someone to legislate on the knee and how bad it is that things should not be discussed in the way they have to be discussed through committees and in the way they have to. Despite all the goodwill of all, it is clear that the amendment, apart from being outside the Rules of Procedure, is also very problematic. And even though we would all like to help with the refugee issue, I fear that we have again reached a dead end on this particular issue. I, too, would call on the Minister to withdraw this amendment. I think that no matter how urgent it is, it can be voted on next week, after being discussed and thoroughly analysed, without any opposition. I think, however, that what needs to be left and after the extremely traumatic debate on Parliament - particularly, as it has evolved on the famous offshore issue, we are again in the face of a deadlock that is mainly caused by sloppyness and hasty moves which have no meaning. Since February 2015 - I think it was Flevaris - in the programming statements of the first left-wing government - a fresh Member of Parliament at the time - for some reason that I cannot understand him I have a very strong picture of Mr Stathakis in this Step to promise at least two things: one that the shops will close on Sundays of the year. With great vigilance he assured us that all the stores will be closed off on Sundays of the year. And secondly, that a development law will soon come that will be innovative and which will take off the country and development. Seventeen months after a government which, with post-multiple statistics, is rather middle-life, has reached about its mid-life, and under the terms of the Memorandum Governments, is probably close to the west of its career, it finally lays down a development law. Is he innovative? Is he subversive? As long as the stores close all Sundays, in my opinion. Today we have heard from the Deputy Minister of State, Mr Haritsis, a wonderful report of ideas, in which he has developed the question of how it should be a development law if it were not the way we have tabled it. That's what it was all about. Among other things, he assured us that it was the first developmental law that had no benefits, which indeed characterised the previous ones. Is that so? We read in the explanatory statement and listened to Mr Stathakis yesterday and many of SYRIZA's colleagues celebrate the fact that the law aims to strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises, small businesses, cooperatives, the GPSD, essentially aims to break down as many as possible because - it says - the previous ones have led to the concentration of subsidies on groups. What is the development objective? He's got a target, and who's that? Is the aim of strengthening competitiveness, the choice of enterprises, small and large, which have potential for development or are they a subsidy policy, as Mr Haritsis assures us that it is not? Because if it is aimed at growth and extroversion, you will allow me to note that it does not matter whether they were groups, big interests or small interests. Mr Stathakis said yesterday that you measured them - and you did well - and you ranked the investments of previous laws depending on the extent to which they were executed. Well, it matters what they did. Groups or small, large or small, matters what they did with the money they took. How many jobs did they create? Did they have any profits? Are they reinvesting them? Do young or old do what they have to do or consume the payroll, as did the subsidy logic in previous years? On the other hand, do you seriously believe that in Greece of 2016, seated by the crisis and disinvestment, small and medium-sized companies and social cooperatives will make the country out of the crisis and will create economic growth of 5% and 7% over the next ten years, which the country needs in particular to cope with its damage? Does anyone really think that's the way? I have nothing against small and medium-sized enterprises. It's the trunk of the Greek economy. And they'll do better, by criteria, and by choice, to strengthen themselves. But without large investment, is it possible to move forward? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One more minute I'll need it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u407	Soon, please, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u408	I'm done. I think the law has the same preferential logic as the old one: Mom pauses, as a food food, distributes small amounts. The transition to socialism has nothing to do with what you have signed, Mr Colleague, nor is it done under these conditions. It's a good story, but it doesn't work. The other problem with the law is, in addition to the problem of a lack of vision and a modern European concept, that it is free of charge: 0.5% of GDP, along with tax relief, spread over seven years, obviously makes him what the Anglo-Saxon irrelevant, in other words, has nothing to do with it. He has nothing to offer growth, because he has no money to throw, no motive. So we are talking more about arrangements and how, in seven years' time, the old investments that had entered into old laws will be repaid rather than actually new law. This development law is actually trying to manage a Gordian bond and of course it does not. Development without public investment and without attracting foreign large private capital. Without at least one of at least two at a skilled rate, it's not going to work. The main problem, therefore, is unresolved and has to do with brave decisions that the government, which have to do with the tax environment, has to do with the relationship between public and private, that the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group finally decides whether we are going to socialism or whether we are completing capitalism. That would be a good step.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u409	Finish it, please. Don't get any further.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u410	I shall conclude with that, Mr President. A friend of mine sent me a sms a moment ago, telling me growth requires confidence. "Tell them to legislate trust," he said. But, ladies and gentlemen, trust is not legislated, won every day and I think this is a struggle where conflicting messages do not help at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u411	Thank you, Mr Barriotta. The floor has been asked by the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights by Mr Paradise. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u412	Thank you, Mr President. I shall refer to the amendment that has been tabled and which has as its subject-matter rules concerning immigration policy. I'm not the expert on the needs and purposes of immigration policy, but from a legal point of view, I think I could...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u413	We are not listening, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u414	A little quiet, ladies and gentlemen, so that we can hear. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u415	I will try to say a few words about the legal basis of the arrangements concerning the independent appeal committees in the context of immigration policy. The amendment which has been tabled is unsuccessful, and has nevertheless been studied and provided that the independent appeal committees are set up by two judicial officers of the administrative courts now, as well as by a Greek citizen who is qualified by the law. The subject of this amendment, regulation, is the attempt to upgrade the qualifications of legal experts involved in the three-member independent appeal committees. As far as the appointment of members is concerned, what is foreseen is that these members are indicated by the Commissioner-General or by the Commissioner-General. I would remind you that the Commissioner-General is involved in judiciary and the head, the Commissioner-General, is chosen in the way in which the top of all the highest courts in the country is chosen. It therefore has a guarantee of a judicial officer that the members of these committees will be appointed. These committees are administrative committees, where judicial officers can also participate in so far as these committees are carrying out judicial work. There is a case-law in our country and in other countries, which decides when a management committee can have administrative work and therefore justifies the participation of a judge in it. This is the case in this particular case, because the members of these committees enjoy functional independence as required in this case. There is a procedure in which there is an inconvenience, that is to say, the possibility for the parties to bring their views into line and of supporting them, and of course there is a guarantee of publicity to the extent that, if the applicant himself wishes to do so, the procedure can be open. So all the requirements for the recognition of judicial work in these committees are met and therefore the Committee of Judges is legally and legally appropriate, I think, in so far as they have increased experience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u416	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u417	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u418	What about, Mr. Loverdos?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u419	The Minister's intervention as a parliamentary representative is entitled to two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u420	Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u421	Minister, there was a debate - you were not here - some time ago and we raised some objections to Members and parties that we had voted for the previous regulation and which we want to make it easier here too. The debate on the substance is not the subject of my reaction to your speech, it was with Mr Muzala. Now, however, you have reiterated a number of arguments, which can be upheld and respected, but with regard to the subject of this committee and the relevant prohibitions of the Constitution. Article 89(2) of the Constitution - and here we want you to be - states that only if it is a task outside their official duties, can a judge be allowed to take part. And we have doubts and strong objections as to whether or not examining the request for a return is an act of an administrative or judicial nature. We have sought the amendment, which has been tabled lately, and we have not been able to see and see it, which can provide arguments that some of these three exceptions - disciplinary, auditing and judicial - are fulfilled, i.e. whether the conditions for exemptions are met. We did not have time to see the provisions of the amendment. As long as we read them, we didn't find any results and we asked the Minister to say it. You're coming here now, you're arguing, but that's not what you're talking about. I would ask you to give this time, because it is up to us. We told Mr. Muzala that he has a history a little strange. In other words, the previous regulation came in a while ago, the three-member committee was maintained as constituted in its earlier arrangement by Mr Mouszala and we told him that if in a week or ten days or a month he would have a problem. So support the majority opinion, at least, but also our minority, with some arguments concerning Article 89(2).
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u422	Good. Before you answer, Minister, Mr. Karras also wants to speak and speak on the subject. Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u423	Yes, Mr President, thank you. I would like to put a few questions and questions to the Minister, following his speech. He told us that the independent so-called appeal committees would be doing judicial work. But then why is the law that we passed about three months ago and the appeal before the Administrative Court of Appeal? Are we going to a second degree and to a third degree to the Council of State where you had foreseen an appeal against the decision of the Administrative Court of Appeal? I would remind you, Minister, that a timely question we discussed on this issue of competences. A second question I have, which relates to a purely constitutional dimension, is this. Article 94(4) of the Constitution: any other jurisdiction of an administrative nature as defined in the law may also be delegated to the civil or administrative courts. So I ask myself, of course, in agreement with Mr Loverdos's views, but by extending this question: Since the Constitution says that it will carry out administrative tasks such as the law means that we will take the judges and incorporate them into administrative committees, such as the Boards of Appeal, or does the Constitution say something else, which I believe says, Mr Paradoxopoulos? That is to say, the administrative courts can be entrusted with administrative powers when they are composed entirely of judicial officers and we cannot have the involvement of a non-judiciary, even if an administrative court is carrying out administrative tasks. And we cannot have it because it is then moving into an administrative committee, because it is responsible for the administration. Furthermore, I do not want to remind you that in practice the fullhearted or chief of the courts are appointed, in accordance with the old provisions that you and I are aware of. The Commissioner-General, who has other duties under the Rules of Procedure, even if he is a senior judge, how is he involved here? I think, therefore, that we want to support the solution to this suffering, but with the involvement of a judiciary we will have unconstitutionalisms, we will have a series of issues which will be delayed further. I would remind you of the issue of the topical question I asked you, Mr Paradoxopoulos, which I asked for the first and last instance to be facilitated at the Single Administrative Courts. Now three points are made of at least judicial work, the first of which is inconsistent with the Constitution. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u424	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u425	Thank you, Mr President. The questions are interesting and I'll try to answer them. First of all, I would like to say that the delegation of administrative work to a judicial officer is something that is happening in too many cases, even the involvement of the administrative boards in the court is an administrative task, which is entrusted to judicial officers. I should also like to say that the existence of a circle of complaints, depending on the subject matter, in the administration and then in the court, based on the right of legal protection which the citizen has, is something that is also provided for in many cases and which is why it is not going to happen here for the first time. I think that the key element here to see whether the function assigned to the independent appeal committees with its specific composition is well founded, whether or not it is in line with the rule of law and our system, is, above all, the content of the work they are doing. In my opinion, as I have tried to say before, I believe that this is primarily a task or, in any case, a judicial task. It is not the only example we will have. Already in ASEAD, in the sports courts, we have boards and organs of administration carrying out judicial work, where a judge is involved. Furthermore, the fact that, under the Constitution, the judge may participate in administrative audit or disciplinary bodies, particularly in disciplinary matters, is due to the fact that the nature of the disciplinary work is also judicial. He's judging if someone's disciplinary elephant or not. It seems our Constitution, our state, what it wants is the judge's basic work to be judicial. I think that this work, the judicial, this nature of the project, is given, is described by a regulation that gives this institution, which is made up of officials with independence, a possibility of crisis with guarantees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u426	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u427	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u428	Let's not go any further. That's not how it works. You have asked, said, answered and closed the question, because then you will also say, the Minister will say again, and it makes no sense. Let's move on. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that we said about 9 o'clock at night we will be done. I would suggest, if you have no objection, that we go to four or five Members at the most, then that the rapporteurs and the special speakers speak. Anyway, we're gonna break the time we said and go like that. Because on the list as I have it in front of me, even though there's been a lot of deletions, there's more than twenty-five people, so we're going around 11:30 to 12:00.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u429	That is unfair, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u430	He can't go tomorrow. It'll be over today. I would ask you very much to accept this proposal in order to proceed with and complete the process even at a tolerance of half an hour. Mr. Aihan Kara Yusuf will speak on the list and then I will inform you of the names of the speakers so that the Chamber can be informed. Mr. Kara Yusuf, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u431	Say the names now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u432	We want to see if he's in the Chamber. We won't make any cooking, don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u433	Don't cook!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u434	There is no special preference. Don't worry, nobody's gonna be wronged. Besides, we're going to reach a consensus. It's not a matter. Mr. Kara Yusuf, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u435	Thank you, Mr President. I must say, of course, that the debate on the procedure that Parliament has been working on since this morning is completely depreciating the role of Members. The MPs and the three hundred are elected by the Greek people and they are people who have an opinion. They have an opinion and that is why they have been elected and sent from the Greek people here to the Greek Parliament. I share and participate in the reactions of Mr Papadopoulos and not just. We must pay due attention to the presence of each Member here in the Greek Parliament. Colleagues and colleagues, before I begin, I would like to express my full support and support for the people affected by the unprecedented theorem that has affected my own region, namely the Municipality of Arrianes, its settlements, but also cultivated areas. Indeed, it was a biblical disaster without excesses. By taking this opportunity, I would also like the Greek people to know, because unfortunately - I regret to say this - the images of the disaster were not covered by any Greek-wide television channel. I hope and believe that, in cooperation with the local authorities, the damage-recording services and the government, damage-recording will soon begin, so that the farmers affected can be compensated for their majority in a reasonable period of time. Speaking of the municipalities, local government and local authorities, I would remind you, because I was a Municipal Councillor and President of the City Council of Maronia - Sapphires of the Rhodope Prefecture, we know what difficulties this grade - and not just - has gone through. I believe that after the development bill that we are now discussing, our government will submit another bill, which will really solve the hands of the municipalities, making important and positive changes to the "CALIKARATI", so that the municipalities can now cope with the daily lives and the needs of the citizens, the citizens. The aim of this government was, is, is, and will remain, to restore injustices against small and medium-sized groups, whether by regulating taxation or by implementing programmes of social solidarity. We are aiming at the establishment of the social state, which has been destroyed by the policies implemented in the period of crisis by the previous governments. Generally speaking, the bureaucratic procedures brought about by occasional development laws were ultimately dissuasive for all kinds of development. The only thing they could do was build large iron structures, which now, in front of our eyes, rustle without any activity. Why am I saying that? I know that very well because I live and I am elected in an area which is the Komotini industrial area, which is supposed to be the third largest industrial region in Greece. Would, as former Minister of the New Democracy had said, development in this region would come with the change in the demographic character of Thrace? We see - and we will see - our beautiful region of Thrace as a single set without splitting it into pieces. I would like to refer to some of the points contained in the new development law, although I do not have much time to speak. First of all, I'm going to talk about the special support areas. The border areas are now 30 km from the border. This covers a part of Greece in which more than two million people, Greek citizens, live. Another criterion, in order to strengthen a region, is to have suffered a significant reduction in its population. Who are responsible for the immigration of new Greeks to look for good luck in foreign countries? Do you remember that, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK, when you ruled a year and a half ago?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u436	Please complete, Mr. Kara Yusuf.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u437	I'll be done in a minute. Although none of the last three development laws had an explicit wording on the size of the investment projects that would be created, there was a very significant and time-increasing absorption of funds from large groups and even large companies, significantly reducing the dispersion of aid to wider strata of the Greek companies. Surely the development law cannot alone change the country's course, but it gives a clear signal of the direction we want to move. It is a crucial tool to achieve the country's development planning with vision, a social law and a economically viable development model, with a view to exiting the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u438	Thank you, Mr. Kara Yusuf. Ladies and gentlemen, with all the time we have been able to do, the proposal is to speak - on the basis of the list, that is, no choice has been made - Mr Papadopoulos from SYRIZA, Mr Sahinidis from Golden Dawn, Mr Koutsoukos from the Democratic Association, Mr Arvanitides from the Democratic Association, Mr Gassis from SYRIZA, Mr Kyriazides from New Democracy and Mr Gregos from the Golden Dawn. Mr. Papadopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u439	Thank you, Mr President. In my opinion this bill is in a positive direction. It's one of the good bills. But what I would like to say and insist very much - and I am in favour of this - are the investments of the Greek locality. I shall refer specifically to the agricultural sector. I think we shouldn't expect the big investments from Qatar and anywhere else. We have a place here that is blessed. With the proper tools that this law puts, I believe that the achievements can be made huge. I will insist very much on the agricultural sector and I will give you, Minister, to see some figures before the crisis by 2009. Let us see this: I believe that if this is the case and we can do better, we will have a great deal of growth. I have here a note, a paper we've done with SYRIZA Larissa, the Development Department, for Thessaly. I'll tell you some numbers. I have a lot of numbers, but time won't come, so I'll say the most specific ones. In Thessaly we have about an income, which comes out for all agricultural products - arable crops around three million acres, horticultural, trees - with an amount of irrigated area in Thessaly near 54%. We're talking about a very dynamic area. What's it look like here? In 15 years' time, the net income earned by the Thessalonians is close to 400 million. If you see this on its own, it's too little. Let us now see the gross values we have in arables, horticulture, trees and vineyards. We have a total of 628 million. In animal production, in livestock units - pigs, cattle, chickens and all this - we have a total here of around 350 million. The value of total animal production - take note, Minister - in milk is 190 million - these are the elements of 2009, probably a little less small - in meat 152 million and in total livestock production is about 600 million. Of these, the cheeses - because I myself shall refer to the feta - are 283 million. What do we understand from these numbers? That the volume of agricultural production, created in Thessaly, is largely found in animal production, especially in cheeses. But there seems to be something more, the great cost of production that we have. So to go to a competitive agricultural production and competitive products we must have less costs. I read to you quickly the three conclusions we have drawn and I want them to be heard: the income generated by 400 thousand, which receives all the farms of plant production in Thessaly, comes from an area of about four million four hundred thousand acres - we said the irrigated one is 50% - and from animals of three hundred and fifty. This result, compared to gross return, which is close to 1.7 billion, gives a very low return on holdings. If we divide this out to the thousands of farmers who have this advance, we will see that a dilemma of EUR 13 per wage per hour is coming out in the eighth. Approximately the same happens in livestock farming. So, as a second conclusion, what seems to be the high cost of inputs, which is around 574 million. This means that they are leaving feed abroad, fertilisers and medicines, that is to say, most of which are outside supplies. Therefore, if we manage and reduce the major inputs we have to agriculture, whether they are stable or related to energy, this means that we will take a big step towards growth. However, the development of the primary sector in its production base is essential in terms of water. Water is one of the largest tariffs, which is currently in the agricultural sector, and there needs to be investment, so that we can see growth as a whole. I will give you all this information, Mr Minister, which we have collected, so that you can use it as best as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u440	Finish it, please. Your time is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u441	I'd like to say a few words about the feta. About two years ago I followed the debate on a question that some Independent Members had asked. I read their names: Mr. Kasapidis, Mr. Paris Mootsinas - was Independent at the time - Mr. Christos Eidonis, Mr. Parastatides, Mr. Odysseus Buddouris, Mr. Andreas Loverdes...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u442	Don't consume time on names!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u443	They asked Mr. Metarakis back then and he told us about the feta that it was well done that regime that exists for the feta now. And now the Larisi MPs and others are coming to tell us about the feta. They voted, regulated, were Ministers and ask a question to Mr. Apostle, while we disagree and disagree with the fact.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u444	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u445	Anyway, I have all the evidence here. And I could read a phrase by Mr Mitarakis, but at the moment he's not here. But it's okay. Next time, I'll give it to you so we don't get to work in cold blood. Do you know what the matter is? That we caught you being with the goat on your back, but stealing and booze!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u446	Thank you Mr. Nikolaos Papadopoulos from SYRIZA. Mr. Shahinides has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u447	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard almost all the parliamentary representatives that they raised an issue of unconstitutionality in the amendment tabled by Mr Musala. It is not just a question of unconstitutionality. The question is, Minister, that you have referred to it as urgent. What for? This matter has been in existence for over a year. What is the reason for the emergency? Clearly we as Golden Dawn consider that there is indeed an issue of unconstitutionality for this amendment and for all the reasons mentioned above by all the parliamentary representatives, as I have said before. In fact, where does this amendment really aim? The creation of electoral clienteles? The permanent establishment of all these things in Greece will only succeed, Minister, is the enlargement of all the problems that exist and are related to the phenomenon of immigration for you, illegal immigration for us, unemployment and all the known problems. I did not hear anyone in this Chamber all the time when development law is being discussed, referring to the well-known Brexit, which will directly affect not only growth in Greece but also whether there will continue to be the well-known European Union in the near future. We're talking about Brexit. What do the facts show? What do the last polls show? That the British people have already decided to leave the European Union. More than they knew in Great Britain when they didn't even enter the Eurozone. But where do we get there? What's gonna happen? In Greece, the memorials signed by both today's and your predecessors are governed by English law. So, what's gonna happen? If Greece fails to comply with what it has signed and what it has to do with its own data, it will have to account for a third country outside the European Union outside the euro area. Mr Ministers, if this is not a concession of national sovereignty in economic matters, what is it? We have heard the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr Twelfths, propose tax exemption for large companies. Very good. They show their attitudes, both of them and of them. Eventually in this country, a left-wing capitalist government is ruling. He ruled a left-wing capitalist government before you and it appears that there is a deal of character and not an inconsistency, as the Greek people have learned. In other words, it was not enough for Mr Nineteen to have a stable fiscal framework for the next twelve years for the large-scale investors. As I said a few days ago, this is where Article 4 of the Greek Constitution is explicitly stated that all Greeks are equal to the laws and the Constitution of the state. That's not what's going on here. I've told you several times from this step to tell us clearly who the small and medium-sized ones are for you, because as a word, when a simple citizen hears it, he imagines it's a small business, a little kiosk, a small shop in the neighborhood. We have repeatedly said that all the development laws that have passed through this country were for businesses employing between one and fifty people. They're not small- and medium-sized. Take the hammer. The Greek people are literally hungry, and we are not talking about the gentlemen who are outside and are protesting at the moment, because if one of them lifts their hand, a lot of Rolex will fall. Exploitation by taxes and measures you have imposed does not exist. Forget that. Neural branches are excluded from the development law. It is a challenge that services of tourist ports and marinas are being strengthened, which we know very well that they have been sold to Turkish individuals. They are also excluded from the tertiary production sector very important activities such as scientific research, development and education. I have heard too many honourable Members and ladies and gentlemen here mention that there is a migration of the new Greek scientists. But when there is nothing subsidized at all, when there is no area of research and work to be absorbed, it makes sense for foreign markets to be more attractive. That's what's happening. If Greece by magic tomorrow somehow solves all its problems and wants to get into a development process, tell me who will do it. If he does not have a new scientific staff, how will this well-considered development eventually come? I should not fail to mention Article 12 and paragraph b for border regions. Here is the choir: Set a limit of thirty kilometers. It's completely unfair. You are all very well aware that it is very bad for an area to be part of the development plan and the countryside not, because that is how some have decided, and it divides them just one bridge or one river. It's gonna have to change that part. In the border regions a prefecture must be characterised entirely, as is the case with our remote islands. In conclusion, I would like to mention that in general the draft law is not a bold section or one of the previous draft laws brought by your predecessors, with few natural exceptions. No development can wait for the Greek people if it does not cut off the balance of the memorials, if it does not immediately stop voting for existing measures from this particular House, if there is no release from the international loan sharks that drink the blood of the Greek people, growth will never be possible. Emphasis on the primary sector, make use of energy sources and create strong new alliances with the national interest alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u448	We move on to Mr Ioannis Koutsoukos from the Democratic Responsibility. Please respect me in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u449	Thank you, Mr President. [[applause from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] Mr. Stathakis tried yesterday to present us with the new government's vision and to convince us that once we have voted on this law, growth is coming. But, ladies and gentlemen, development does not come by law, nor by decrees, nor by wishes. There is no more to come when there are not too many things to do with growth. One is the budget. Mr Statakis explained that we are going to a soft financial adjustment. Therefore, compared to the EUR 30 billion in the first memorandum, the EUR 20 billion in taxes, expenditure cuts and cuts are very little. And Mr Stathakis compared the country's EUR 36 billion deficit with its surpluses and balanced budgets when it became government. Therefore, the government was financially forced, because it followed a course of expedition, mainly in the first half of 2015, to remove from the real economy EUR 6 billion taxes. They'd go to development. He managed to deprive the government of EUR 10 billion from GDP in 2015 and EUR 10 billion from GDP in 2016, according to the forecasts of all agencies. So it lost 20 billion euros wealth. That is why I said in the debate we recently held here in this House, in the timely question of the Democratic Incorporation that the growth tombstone will write EUR 6 billion more taxes and EUR 20 billion less GDP. But the professor, among other things, forgot to mention what all economists and ordinary citizens say, is well aware of. Ladies and gentlemen, development beyond budgetary and macroeconomic is a matter of climate. I would like to refer him to the studies on the configuration of the economic climate, which was in the hundreds of units - if I remember correctly - in November 2014 and has fallen to ninety. It has a continuous decline in the economic climate as opposed to what is happening in other countries. And much more, of course, I should like to refer him to the increase in the delays in how they went out to EUR 86 billion. Today he told us that only EUR 15 billion could be recovered. But the EUR 15 billion is a two-year increase, Minister. Is that just what they're able to collect? Mr Stathakis has forgotten to tell us about the public's delays towards the citizens, which reached EUR 6 billion, and we expect the dose, to get something, when we have liquidity. Obviously, he did not answer us how the question of liquidity will be solved since we are not attracted to deposits, since the index of deposits goes down too. The general development issues are therefore negative. This is recorded in the actual climate, in the index of the fixed capital formation for 2016, which is -8%, and in what the National Statistical Office says about what the growth was in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the last of 2015 or the first of 2015 that was about -1.4%. However, if we were all to remove these and examine the development law independently, could the development law with the rest well give a huge start to the development process? Ladies and gentlemen, this development law is poor, it is of low expectations. This is a low flight because it does not commit resources. The General Accounting Office of the State says in its report that it is around 380m euros. I do not remember exactly what our rapporteur, Mr Constantinople, said in detail. And tax is minimal, because they come afterward. We have tabled a proposal that is very specific. There was a debate here very long and political confrontation over the excess that was binding on the public property for a hundred years. And we were told by SYRIZA colleagues, and the Prime Minister told us that part of them would go to growth, 25%. The other one's going to the debt. We have tabled a proposal, we have tabled it, and we have seen that the New Democracy has embraced it, and I imagine that other parties have no objection, which says we should commit 15% of these funds to the objectives and purposes of the development bill. Otherwise there will be no funds, so investment projects cannot be served. It's too clean. We have tabled a number of specific proposals. Some have been accepted by the government, they have taken a few half steps. He accepted what we said about Tier 2 books, what we said didn't punish the old investment projects. But, Minister, paying seven instalments of old investment laws is punishable. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. You've taken a few small steps. We have approached the issue positively despite our reservations. And I would like to end with this: I have heard you closing your speech, Minister, say that you will walk on your own. Are you not taking into account what I have said to you, that climate, political consensus and social consensus are factors of development and will you walk on your own against society? I think it's a bump, and I'm sorry about that. I do not want to combine it with the other members of the government who do not understand that the democratic citizens who have been lured and voted for SYRIZA have not been mutated, such as the government and the majority. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u450	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuko. Mr Arvanitides has the floor. I would ask you to follow Mr Koutsukou's example of time consistency. Then Mr. Gassis will be prepared to complete the circle of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u451	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think the debate these days in this House has helped us to understand that development law is an individual tool and not the strategic development plan that the country needs. In the absence of such a plan, the government is confined to generalities, which make development tools weak and their failures a rule rather than an exception. Of course, if the tools you use fail when the economy is strong, it is a small evil. But if they fail when the economy is in the state of the Greek economy, then the conditions for exiting the crisis seem to be high and bad. The new development law is weak, not because it concerns aids only EUR 35 000 000 per year for new investments, but mainly because it looks like a book titled, it has content, but the text is missing, it lacks substance. The thirty-two ministerial decisions that will be needed for its activation make it clear that this is a framework law that will be activated as a whole from the new year. So the country continues to lose valuable time, as always. Ladies and gentlemen, in the 2016 Greek equation, we have two extremely problematic variables. The state finds it difficult to give jobs, for reasons that we all know and official unemployment remains steadily high at 25%. Therefore, supporting entrepreneurship, attracting investment, focusing on production, processing and exports are a one-way path to creating new stable and well-paid jobs, which are a one-way path to increasing GDP, are a one-way path to increasing the income and purchasing power of citizens. The solution may seem obvious, perhaps it is simple, but that is not the case. To create a friendly business environment, it is not enough for Mr Tsipras' big words and professors - let me - to approach Mr Stathakis. It requires work, consistency, objectives and programme by the government, joint effort, a clear message to the citizens from the whole political and economic world. But to convince the citizens that the goods are being groomed, you must first set an example. Minister, people hear the words, but the example is followed. And, unfortunately, the example you give of the country's progress towards development is an example to avoid. Recently, I had the pleasure of being with you at the Northern Greece Association of Industries Assembly. The link presented the results of the global year of competitiveness for 2015, in which our country was in the fifty-sixteenth place in a total of sixty of a state, from the fiftyth place in 2014. The impressive thing is that this curse is due almost exclusively to one of the four key indicators of the investigation, that of business efficiency. In this indicator, our country came down to ten and a half in a year, reaching its fifty - seventeenth place from the forty - third, which was in 2014. I'm filing the table in the Minutes. [[At this point Mr Georgios Arvanitidis presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This fall, Minister, is due to three main factors, for which you are solely responsible. Our country is the last in the financial risk and operation indicators of the financial sector, it is the last in its availability index to businesses. These are the results of the capital controls of the tragic way of recapitalisation of banks, for which, of course, neither the previous ones are to blame, nor the complication nor the strangers. They are solely due to your own choices and your own policies. And as if this were not enough, with the banks closed down for a year, you tell us that you are planning the new development law to help small and medium-sized enterprises, which, after all, cannot be involved, since you have excluded small businesses from the second-class books. However, if you accept, according to the debate and as we are now, our proposal and eventually include it in the law, the question is where will these companies raise capital, when the funds of the investment law will be raised in a period of seven years. Do you think it is easy for small businesses to find access to investment funds or to use complex financial instruments? Of course, you do not only fail in development law, but also in individual issues, which are very important: the regulation for the hundred instalments, the amendment we tabled for the failures of spatial planning, the issues that Mr Tsironis has to deal with, the adoption of ministerial decisions to draw up locally specific spatial plans and town plans, so that every investor who, and in what area, can finally know about his investment, the regulation we have brought you to pay for the drivers' remuneration, the regulation on the staff of the ELGAs. All these are serious issues, which we ask you, at least at the last minute, to take them seriously as amendments, in order to facilitate particular categories of citizens who are suffering. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Since I have no more time to testify to a number of point changes that you can make in the law, Mr Stathakis, which I think improve the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u452	Thank you, Mr. Arvanitides. Mr Gatis has the floor and then Mr Kyriazidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u453	Thank you very much, Mr President, and the opportunity to speak. Ladies and gentlemen, the development and exit of the crisis is based on four initiatives, which seek to mobilise our national economy in the direction of implementing the new visionary model created by our Government. Our guidelines are clear. The factors that will cause the electroshock of mobilisation are the new development law, which we are debating today, the resources of the NSRF 2014-2020, the Juncker package, but also cooperation with international development institutions, such as the World Bank, in cooperation with which the study is being conducted to improve the business environment in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the bill we are debating today is to create new jobs and to create a modern and socially just model based on investment in the real economy, in priority sectors such as agri-foodstuffs and new technologies. However, extrovert actions, with an emphasis on innovation, are needed to reduce regional disparities and, above all, to help small and medium-sized enterprises increase their competitiveness. Only then will the country finally come out of the austerity, recession and unemployment spiral in recent years. After the successful completion of the evaluation, Greece is taking a dynamic step towards restoring market confidence and increasing the productivity of the country by promoting a growth based on the development of human resources and strengthening small and medium-sized enterprises, especially those located in the border and island regions. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not claim that this bill is a universal plan, which will address and solve all the problems left behind by the austerity of previous development laws or all the deadlocks that Greek society faces today, after six years of austerity and economic crisis. We cannot, however, let the country plunge into the recession, without exploiting our productive potential, our central geographical location in the global routes of trade and energy resources and the high level of education of its human resources. We aim to stay young scientists in our country and return to those who have already migrated abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to do all this, we need to overcome the mechanisms which contribute to maintaining existing suspension structures. These mechanisms are very inhibiting innovation, which restrict the variety of forms of social interaction and hamper growth. It's still the customer mechanisms that were dominating so far. At the same time, we must maintain the high value of the human measure, which is a characteristic of the small and medium-sized enterprise in the Greek regions. That's the bet we're supposed to win. I would also like to emphasise an important issue facing the new law with targeted interventions in less developed and favoured border and island regions, with additional incentives for the establishment of business activities in border areas, with concrete measures to achieve economic, social and territorial cohesion for small and remote islands. Once again, the Government recognises the importance of aid to address the specific social and demographic problems of the island regions by sending a message of support to the Aegean islands. Ladies and gentlemen, we are putting an end to the insecurity of the choices of previous governance. We have fought and continue to fight, to fight in a difficult European environment, claiming space to implement actions that will mitigate the consequences of monuments in society. A circle has been closed for the Greek economy, in which, a key point was the first assessment, and a young man who can lead to a sustainable recovery and development course. We will move forward with strength and determination, setting strong foundations for the economic and social recovery of our country. And we will do this in terms of social justice and long-term sustainability, to turn into a country of development and creation and to leave behind the image of misery and national devaluation, which you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK have shaped in the European and international area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u454	Thank you, Mr. Gaki. Mr Dimitris Kyriazides from New Democracy has the floor. Then Mr Gregos will speak and so the list of speakers closes and then we will discuss what we will do. Here, Mr. Cryazides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u455	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a great gathering of protests outside the Constitution, despite the efforts of the government to dismantle citizens' protests on measures, on the course of this government. Of course, for the first time in political times - not only in our country, but also worldwide - there are anarchists' announcements supporting a government. But that, unfortunately, has happened nowadays. As far as you are concerned, Mr. Deputy Minister, Mr. Musala, since October we should deal with immigration and refugee issues. It has been a number of months and we have arrived in February, so that there can be a re-enforcement of the Armed Forces in order to create the reception centres. Once again, the government or, if you wish, it has imposed by its amendment, a regulation which, by way of exception, makes it possible to set up reception centres as far as the whole operation is concerned. The same is happening today. It's been a long time. The e-mail minister, of course, in his way, apologized for the fact that there was a delay over a year. And it is necessary to involve all the factions here in Parliament in order to accept this amendment, which was withdrawn yesterday and which came again today, in the way it came, insultingly to all of us, with regard to the upgrading of Parliament, as has many times been sought from all the sides of this House. Not only that, but there are provisions - fortunately, the provision that had to do with the settlement of matters two years ago has been withdrawn, in breach of or above what you want to do, legal provisions - and still the question of the participation of judges in committees where they will adopt administrative acts, which will be a particular delay. For anyone who thinks he is wrong will appeal against these decisions, so there is a huge delay. After all, the Council of State has acted accordingly on relevant committees of participation of judges, with regard to the addresses of forests, where such committees have been held. So we have a precedent and we know what will happen. As far as the very bill we are discussing today is concerned, its content has been exhausted by everyone here. As far as the result is concerned, zero equals zero. Unfortunately, this is the result of the relevant bill on the development of the country. In particular, I shall refer to Article 12. Minister, I come from an isolated county, border, a diaspora county, Drama. As you know, there were special regimes to strengthen these border geographical parts of our country, such as Drama, Pella, Kilkis, Serres, Xanthi, Rhodope, Evros. They had a wage cost in terms of work, which was subsidised by 12% in Thrace, 4% in Drama and Kavala. You have recently removed it, so that companies, which, unfortunately, had hired staff, subsidising or donating this addition of workers, remain in debt, as far as Drama is concerned, with 4%. Unfortunately, you have recently removed it. Similarly, we are now dealing with the designation of these regions and, in particular, of Drama, as a border and problematic one. It's a huge matter. You know the bleeding of entrepreneurship in our county. Bulgaria's next door. Unfortunately, more than 70% of enterprises have relocated to Bulgaria. This will continue. It is not possible for any business to remain in this tax regime, if you like, of this treatment. Minister, you have a burden for these prefectures, and in particular for a county isolated like Drama, without connection to Egnatia. Its margin continues, and we must all stand together to the extent of the circumstances, to ensure a prefecture of bleeding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u456	Last speaker is Mr. Gregos from Golden Dawn. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u457	Thank you, Mr President. You're confused. You're in panic. And, indeed, you remember the former government of the New Democracy - PASOK. She did the same thing. And when Samaras was referring to growth, the same things were said, which are not true, and they are not even going to apply. On the occasion of the amendment tabled a moment ago by Mr Mousala, I would like to inform you that the day before yesterday I was in Basilica - it is an area outside Thessaloniki - where residents of the area of Vasiliki, Sodomis, Nea Raidesta had gathered. There illegal immigrants were transferred from Kilkis and I saw really shocking images. I saw these illegal immigrants throwing bits of asphalt to the people who had gathered across the street, I saw the police right in the middle, I saw despair on the part of the inhabitants, who, of course, were anxious to find the mayor and MP Famelos. I don't know exactly what they wanted to tell him. I heard some words about tanning. I consider it to be the elections when they take place. I saw really shocking images, such images that we see in all the most famous hot spots around Greece, where right next to them are facilities, because most of them are close to residential areas. There are too many businesses there, and not only will there be no growth in these areas, but poor land and nothing else. I also saw the Minister responsible for rushing to table this amendment in order to legalise them, of course illegally. The Minister responsible is well known and his sensitivity to the issues of Constitution and democracy. It has nothing to do with it - unfortunately, many of you - and it has been demonstrated on several occasions. As far as the amendments you are proposing - as the New Democracy used to do - are concerned, we are using them in another way to show the Greek people exactly how you act within Parliament. And with the amendments tabled by the Golden Dawn, such as the one we tabled today and you did not accept it - we knew that you would not accept it - we simply owe you, through these amendments, to unleash you before the Greek people. I will go on with the previous issue, because it is very serious and it is not at all secondary, as the Minister said. The inhabitants of those areas were talking about lawsuits, they were talking about lawsuits. Of course, every citizen can testify and sue, especially against Minister Muzala, because there is no need for immunity to be lifted here. They have even filed complaints before the city, the municipalities and the police. I hope some way out of there. Because - I repeat - all these areas are affected. I say this because you are talking about growth, when in all these areas all the businesses have closed down, they have increased the cases of robbery and infraction is given, according to official police data. Also, residents demand that people be arrested - as the law says - all those acting illegally. And, of course, if you dare - which you will of course not dare - to make a referendum, to see what the Greek people say, you would understand that the Greek people are demanding here and now that deportations begin immediately. You really remind the government of Samara and Venizelou, as I said before. And they were talking about growth. No growth can come. When such economic data are available, no one can invest. You too, if you dared to invest, if you intended to invest, you would not do so. Of course, there is growth in your bank accounts, especially some ministers. Some have also invested, because they know very well what is going on about investment. No investment, however, can be done right now. And not only can investment do and develop can't come, but every day business closes and people drive to suicide. It is a matter that other Members of the Golden Dawn have raised. Every day there are suicides. If you look at the newspapers, you will see that even today there has been a suicide of someone in Crete. Of course, these are perhaps secondary issues, like the previous issue, as the Minister said. They're not secondary at all. They're primary issues. There can be no growth, when there are late debts. There can be no growth when capital controls exist. There can be no growth when there's a sale. We have also heard nothing about the AOZ. It's a crime you're in charge of, along with the New Democracy and the PASOK. You know very well what's going on with AOZ. We're afraid you're gonna sell that too. We have repeatedly touched on this in the House. With the EOZ Greece could become an economic superpower. You do not do that either. We make you responsible for the country's financial destruction. Also, to say that the Golden Dawn and only the Golden Dawn can now speak on behalf of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u458	The list of speakers has been completed. I would suggest, if you do not object - and I am referring above all to the rapporteurs - that the Minister should now speak to him, so that they can, if they want, give a second answer to what the Minister will say. And if he wants, then add something as clarification to the Minister and close. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u459	Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the criticism made by the Opposition Committee on the occasion of the presentation, for our part, of the economic and political context, of the current government's strategy for the exit of the country from the crisis and of the framework in which it is incorporated development law, I can classify it in four categories: Firstly, the Left's DNA is incompatible with entrepreneurship, investment and development. Secondly, the economic policy of the Left is incompatible with entrepreneurship, investment and development. Thirdly, the way in which the present government plans its development strategy. Fourthly, the development law itself, which cannot reverse or contribute to the reversal of the economy. Left-wing DNA and incompatible with growth: It is obvious that left DNA is different from right-wing DNA. I regard this as a given, self-evident and recorded two centuries ago in a very methodical and systematic way. It is in the Left's DNA to ensure that schools are uniform, universal and public, accessible to all families, regardless of the income of each child, creating education for all and equal opportunities for all children, to develop their educational capital. I believe that it is in the Left's DNA that access to health services is not dependent on income, but that every man's right is self-evident. It is in the Left's DNA to see not only for business indices circulating, but also for simpler indicators, the indicators of social inequalities in one country. And let me remind you here that Greece's social inequalities index today is one of the worst, if not the worst, in the European Union. It's in the Left's DNA to see to it that it respects the environment. It is in Left's DNA to develop in income distribution conditions, mainly through the relationship between profits and wages, which balances things and represents the world of work adequately. It is in the Left's DNA to form a geographical unit within a national state that cares for regions and regional disparities. Therefore, with regard to this DNA, the repeated argument that entrepreneurs, investment and private individuals, where there is a left-wing government, make them incompatible, is an issue that must probably be answered on the other side. In other words, we have no historical presumption that when the Right is in power, suddenly growth happens at a frightening rate and when the Left comes out is suspended. It has no historical precedent, it's not acceptable to anyone. And the reason is much simpler. In the right-wing DNA the idea of growth is identified with a number of data on this and the obsession with three main themes: 'Reduce taxation'. The reduction in taxation means a reduction in the social state. There's no other way, no other way found. ‘Reduce insurance contributions’. The reduction in insurance contributions means a reduction in pensions. There's no other way. Reducing the state means creating more markets, and these markets are health, education, construction, public works and many other things, to operate on private economic criteria. Therefore, the differences are data and I consider them to be self-evident. So let's keep the Left's DNA and see if it's compatible with a development strategy, which is compatible with the data available. I am going to go to the second point in economic policy. Because of all these things, the way we are dealing with the economic crisis today, the agreement and the way we are shaping both the fiscal adjustment and the stabilisation of the economy, obviously and expressing these elements of our economic policy. We have not cut the social state, despite what is said by the Opposition. We have created a framework for a balanced increase in contributions and tax revenues as far as possible, in a fair manner, more burdening the upper income groups and we have created a framework for budgetary adjustment mildly and, in our assessment, as equitable as possible under the circumstances. Does this economic policy create conditions for the collapse of the economy? The answer is: no. It has appeared from the data that this economic policy, like the dna of the Left, and many other things, forms stabilization conditions and consumption because of care for the distribution of income, so they stabilise the economy and at the same time shape better conditions in order for there to be private initiatives to get the economy out of the crisis. However, under conditions of weakening and collapse of all these parameters, which I mentioned, we could only live on what we have experienced in previous years, namely a systematic methodological descent of the economy, year after year, depending on the intensity of the measures that the previous governments had chosen at the level of economic policy. I'm entering the third and last section. In development law, as much as I think a very thorough debate has been held, I still expect a substantial criticism. We have heard the criticism because it is not like the previous ones, which is horizontal for everyone. We have answered that question. We had to make a choice. If we left him horizontally for everyone, we would have had a repetition of previous development laws. A lot of money in a few categories of investments, tourists, wind, etc. And big ones. These are out of sight. There's another thing the economy needs. To go to another strategy, you have to make a choice. We did it in the development law, and so the criticism is why we do not go on with the previous one, I think it is in many ways unsuccessful. We have made a choice, and that is where we are gearing the resources. The second criticism is that there are not enough resources available to those who would like there to be. Of course, I am going beyond the fact that they do not exist at all. This year is 340 million committed to the old developmenters. Escalation is approximately uniform during the years. The amount is 3.6 billion, as you know. Therefore, in the idea why you do not immediately pay all those who have completed or why you do not fully release all payments to all branches, all in the horizontal system, I respond that the system would bring back exactly what was before, promises toward a development law that the State could not carry out. I do not think it creates any particular incentive for investors. On the contrary, it creates lasting insecurity, it causes permanent political mediation, it also causes an economy that is really mediated by a political situation which we want to avoid. The aim is therefore modest, namely small and medium-sized enterprises. It is aimed at production and innovation, regional inequalities. It is guaranteed by resources that have been approved in advance and are agreed. It is a law which, as far as its potential is concerned, will do what a development law is called upon to do: to support, to boost investment. I repeat that, for each of the euros, we are obviously talking about an investment of EUR 4 - a real investment, together with the investments it brings, will be of the order of eight times the amount of investment. I conclude by saying this: This development law, targeted, with the data it has, must be seen in relation to the whole other range of tools, which we currently offer for the recovery of private investment. Mr. Haritsis mentioned in detail the relevance of the development law to the NRPs. I repeat that they are complementary. A large proportion of small start-ups and very small businesses go through the NSRF - not exclusively because there will be other programmes - small and medium-sized enterprises go through the development and large businesses through an institutional framework that will improve the investment strategy. This strategy is structured, understandable, targeted. The Greek economy is at a time when no one can deny. The first assessment is closed, the financial system will take a lot of breath in the next few months, the predictions and the Cassandras of bad guesses will be disproved in the second half of 2016, as they were disproved in 2015. The economy will be back, it will get a positive sign in the second half of 2016, here we will be joining forces and going to the next day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u460	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The rapporteurs will now be seconded. I should like to point out that almost all the rapporteurs have done a scary amount of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u461	No, there is no horrifying over time because our two speeches, Mr President, have been established for twelve minutes and we have agreed to be eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u462	Eighteen. Mr Santorinios spoke twenty-one minutes, you twenty-one more than ten seconds. Please don't get into the grocery store.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u463	We will do what we have agreed, Mr President, so that we do not get involved in the cod.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u464	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u465	We're gonna do a dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u466	You're gonna do a dentine for three minutes with a little tolerance. So are the other colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u467	Secondary is half of the protology, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u468	But should we take away the time you've spent?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u469	Oh, the eighteen minutes? And who's doing the grocery now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u470	You've been eighteen, you've reached twenty-one, three minutes. Seven and a half, four and a half. All right, four and a half. If that's the way you want it, that's the way it is. Let's make the whole deal right now. I agree for five minutes. Mr. Santorinios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u471	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it was a positive message you made, but here all day long we've been discussing an investment gap that exists. We say it's 80 billion, you say it's 100 billion. To accept that it's 100 billion. When did this investment gap become? In 2009-2015. How did this investment gap become? Was it a sanctuary? Did the SYRIZA government do it? She brought a 100 billion-billion-dollar investment gap? It is a concrete answer, ladies and gentlemen. A 25% drop, which brought in another million unemployed. No one can question that. And you're telling us that yes, okay, it's a big gap, you guys, and you bring 480 million to cover that gap. Firstly, to be clear, it is not 480 million, the Minister said so a moment ago. It's 3.6 billion. They are agreed resources with the institutions and the Public Investment Programme come from 1.320, from the NSRP 616 million and tax exemptions 1.675. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nektarios Santorinios, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What does that mean? It means that old development laws have already taken 1 billion and will take 2.5 billion more and the new law will take 3.6 billion. That makes us a total of 4,6. Because, as we all know, it is not 4.6 billion, which will fall into the economy - on the basis of the regional aid map, that is about 30% - it means that we are finally going to 14 billion investments. That means sixteen thousand jobs directly from the old developmenters. Sixteen thousand jobs directly from the new development, because we are also managing better - we have said that - in relation to jobs. And in total, based on 14 billion, we count conservatively another two hundred and fifty thousand jobs indirect. That is the whole thing, that will be the new development law that we are bringing right now and we are proposing to vote on. And because we are talking too much about previous investments, they have improved legally. Basically, they take about half with completion and then another four years to complete the repayment. And who are they? They are the ones you've been letting them wait for years. Waiting for them to be evaluated, waiting to get 50%, waiting to be certified, waiting to complete. They are the ones who paid for the bureaucracy, the complexity and the corruption of yours. That's what we're talking about, 6.4 billion, six thousand, three hundred investment cases. And you say "send binding time in the bill on repayment". What was your polite time? The 6.4 billion you left it like this, we managed it. And we will put binding time and it will be in the notices of regimes. Don't worry and don't worry about investors. A lot has been said about the General Exemptive Code. Obviously, a development law supports the General Exemptive Code, so complaints that say that the steel industry or the synthetic fibres sector is not included, as is the shipbuilding sector, are not included. However, within the draft law, it is stated that a joint Ministerial Decision may exceptionally be proclaimed in the shipbuilding sector. I should like to inform you, as far as I know from the Secretariat-General for Private Investment, that there are already discussions on the creation of a group of shipyards. I do not want to eat much of the time and because I know that the President will be strict after the whole dialogue, I will close with something that we have heard today by the Chief of Staff. Two assumptions: The first is that development laws have not finally helped so much in development. He said it. And the second one: What have they strengthened? A state-owned low-growth capitalism. Refer to the Minutes. So you are asking us not to vote on this development law, which gives basic directions to the country's productive reconstruction and to follow your example, to bring back a development law and to favour a state-owned low-growth capitalism. We told you before. In fact, 14 billion will be invested by this development law. But you know why you say it and you know why you're talking about 'empty shirts'. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be a minute, Mr. President. You're talking 'empty shirts' because you're not just talking in here. You speak with your statements abroad, and that is how you want to undermine growth. You want to undermine the country, because you have a great opposition force. We won't follow you. We'll move forward. We and the NSRF, where we are, as Minister Haritsis said, first throughout Europe, because we have the NSRF and we have brought the Management and Control System forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u472	Thank you, Mr Santorinios, SYRIZA rapporteur. Mrs Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u473	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Stathakis, you've been talking for ten minutes and you've devoted the largest part of it, and the debate today was about development law, to convince us that you have left DNA. That was the speech thing? Can I tell you something? I do not know if it is time to argue about whether its policies are left, when you put 9 billion meters, when you cut off the NSA when you cut off pensions, when you put horizontal measures of 1.8 billion, which hurt the weak, when the social state is broken up. I don't know if this is the right time, but because you chose it, I'll ask you this: Who cares about this now? Why do we care if what you're doing has left DNA exactly? I'm not gonna talk about if you have left DNA, I'm gonna talk about what you're talking about and do. Suddenly, you're talking about the private economy, about entrepreneurship, about growth, about investment. You, who, all these years of left-hand DNA or not, were against all of this, were wars of these things. Now all of a sudden, you're going to wonder what happened to you. Did you come out of your delusion? Did you see the light on the real thing? Have you changed? No, you haven't. It didn't change anything at all. You are the same and unchanging in all things, you have simply brought political chameleonism into art, in simple words you make black - white. You don't care about growth or investment. The only investment you've made a year and a half as a government is to establish your status, because that's what you're doing, your people, you've invested in propaganda, and your only goal is to stay in power. But someone will tell me: You've changed. You were remembranced, and now you've become memorials. You sign them. A hundred and fifty three people raise their hands and say "Yes", you implement measures. You haven't changed. It doesn't matter the memorial or the antimony. It was nothing to you. You're just populists. These are dividing lines that you put to address the anger and convince society that you need to trust you. And you did it twice. And now that the memorial-antimony goes, because you brought your own memorial, you have new dividing lines. We have 'Being Europeans', we have 'Yes', we have 'No'. We have the indignant, who, when protesting, are not motivated, are a source of popular indignation. And if the half of today's Ministerial Council speaks of hanging in the back. It's not motivated. It's democratic. When they're outside now, right now, thousands of people are calling out to resign...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u474	Not a thousand. Don't go crazy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u475	What are those? Oh, you don't like them. They're wearing a pantyhose. They drink collagen. They have no right to express themselves, because they are far right and why they are enemies of the nation. That's who you are. This is your state-of-the-art mentality, which is the same and invariable. And we see her here, too, in this Chamber. And it is summarised here: "We will do whatever we want, and if you don't like it, that's your problem." I believe that our President, Mr Mitsotakis, has analysed your parliamentary practices very well, with numbers, which destroy Parliament's every sense of democratic functioning by means of legislative acts. Last night you came and brought us a bill of eighty-pages bill and wrote "Amendment". And when there was an inconvenience on this, you took it back. We're happy for a while, Mr. Stathakis. I told you'respect', coming out and not accepting that. So you came today, and what happened? You brought forty pages. Well, and when there was a fuss about something that was manifestly, unequivocally unequivocally, apart from the amendment that you have brought, that is to say, excluding everything from the public procurement to share it with our own people, in order to reach agreement, ah, Mr Muzalas says, 'A little consensus now'. Well, that's not how democracy works. If you don't understand, what can I tell you? Well, you haven't changed. You don't believe in entrepreneurship. You don't believe in investment. You don't believe in any of this. You're doing it to stay in your chairs. That's what I'm summarizing. And you think someone's mocking because you haven't changed to it either. You're just trying to keep making fun of the Greek people. Here's what's going on out there. You're not fooling anyone anymore. Thank you very much. And within time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u476	It's quiet. They're gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u477	There's no one outside.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u478	Thanks for being in time. Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos has the floor from the PASOK - DIMAR.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u479	Thank you, Mr President. I heard, Mr Minister, just now the rapporteur, Mr Santorinio, who, too, reached two hundred and fifty thousand jobs, indirectly and directly...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u480	Two hundred eighty.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u481	Excuse me, two hundred eighty. It's good that there are Minutes. I don't know if you're gonna get those jobs. This is not the time to say exactly what is going to happen. We talked earlier about it. Certainly, however, it is very difficult to catch so many Members talking about your bill in this House again. Today, you've reached your picnic. They have never spoken so many MPs before. And because you said that in the next few days, from September onwards, the difficult ones come, you'll have a lot less. If we had Mr. Philly's culture, today we would have told you that we had you make a lot of changes. We don't have that culture. We will tell you that for five days we have worked together as a political party and as a body, we have had proposals and positions. Unfortunately, we have not been able to achieve it so that our positions can be acted and it is in the interest of investors, but there have been several changes. We again say that we believe that soon this bill needs to be changed in terms of old investment laws. We, as Democratic Reconciliation, will raise this issue to the other parties in the next few years, so that these changes can be made and that investment can be made. But I would like you to allow me to give you two points, which I think we should at the end, all the politicians, the parties and also the figures, which cannot be reversed by one and the other. I'm talking about old development laws. As you say, you have no worship of authority. I would like to remind you, however, that I was six months Minister and you have exceeded sixteen months. I'm telling you this because you've been putting it in forty years. We weren't all forty years Ministers. I'm telling you, you're 16 months and I've been six. But now let me tell you, in this respect, about the worship of authority. You have tabled a plan for the first development of 2004, which, with what you say, is 700 million, because the inactive - you write it - is three. You write it's inactive. If we go to the other law you filed the paper, we'll make 20% of it, because we don't know in the outstanding completions, in the outstanding final control reports how many will end up. So there are 700 million. It's good not to be said because it doesn't help anything. If we go to the second regarding the law of 2011, you say: "From the first regime, with an application for control, it is 57,580, with the formation of a JOE..." - to understand those who have been prepared to go to check - "... is 11,000 and without an application for control..." - third, colleagues, please - "is a hundred and seventy eight." So if you take this painting, Minister, SYRIZA colleagues, you will understand that the amount is not 6.356, because it's red and it's right that it's red. That's why the Minister didn't testify to it, and he gave Mr. Famello to testify. Because if the Minister put it before him, he would have a responsibility to do so. It does not provide the Ministry with such evidence. So all the developmentists, Mr Minister, do not exceed 800 million in your view. So we tell you to start paying from now on and make the following equation: If today, this year you have to pay 340 million, as you say, for the ESDP, and we assume, Minister, that 50 million are from the EDP, it means that you have 290 million from the 2007-2013 Programme, which you have put it somewhere, are 'parked' and waiting to come out. I say all this, ladies and gentlemen, because it has a value if we want to speak with a common word and a common place. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, Mr President, development law - and the Minister knows that it has nothing to do with it - will not bring about two hundred and fifty thousand jobs, because there are no two hundred fifty jobs. But let it be recorded. Unfortunately, it will not be able to repay all investments quickly and quickly, and many of them will be blown into the air. And you know it. Nevertheless, to us, the Democratic Alliance, we have had the opportunity in this bill to talk very clearly about our policy, about how we believe growth can be sustainable. This is how we will go in the next few years and I think that very soon we will all come together to agree on a new development law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u482	Thank you, Mr. Constantinople. Mr. Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u483	Thank you, Mr President. I will not spend all year round on the issue of development law. After all, we, as a JRC, were placed in detail for development law yesterday and today. Nor, of course, will I answer Mr. Leventis. Besides, his anti-communism has been left from the student years. It's not worth it. I just want to sum up by saying that the government's development law is a tool subordinate to the needs of capital and European Union planning in conditions of capitalist crisis. Extroversion, which is the main axis of this model, of this tool, is the core core. And, of course, it is controversy, in direct contrast to the satisfaction of the people's needs. The result of this growth model, which is not something new - and the previous governments have said that - will lead to an increase in the imbalance between sectors even more by destroying production capacities, but also at regional level. And fair growth will never happen. How, moreover, can there be, when there are 300 euros wages, when there are flexible working relationships, when there is a tax raid, when the development law, but also the other laws and other tools, exclude self-employed and small and medium-sized farms? And, of course, it is not just the tax raid on popular strata. At the same time, Secretary-General Lambrianides, in his interview with the development law, promised that he would ensure that the government further reduces the corporate tax rates. This, at least, has been written in the improvement of the press conference. So you'll give more. From this point of view, the result will be to accumulate the wealth produced, which produces wealth, in less and less hands. I am going to be a little more detailed about the amendment, which has come in this way. Of course, we will not remain in the lukewarm criticism of the other parties and their efforts to get the government out of the difficult position, trying to better shape the amendment. We want the amendment to be withdrawn not just because it has problems with Parliament's Rules of Procedure, but because it is unacceptable. And it is unacceptable, because it is even worsening an anti-immigration, anti-refugee law, which had trampled the asylum-related Geneva Agreement and adapted to the implementation of the European Union-Turkey Agreement on Refugee and Migration. What are you doing in this way on the substance? You want, in every way, through all means, through fire and iron to implement this agreement and thus further trample the right of immigrants to asylum. That is why you are changing the composition of the Independent Committee of Appeal, placing two judicial officers, appointed by the Commissioner-General and not by the plenary of the courts, namely on the substance of the Government's representative, to determine the composition. Because with today's composition almost all the appeals, apart from two, were accepted and asylum was granted to the Syrian refugees. In this way, you want to further restrict the right of asylum to Syrians - not just to them, but to Syrians at least - refugees. Of course, this will lead to even greater deterioration in the situation. And after all - underwriting, you say it's nine thousand cases and how you do it to make it easier. And for the three hundred thousand outstanding cases in the administrative court, what about this procedure? Of course, that's not all, but you're getting worse. You are giving Europeans, who have come from the European Committee on Asylum, the right to look themselves at asylum applications and not Greeks. You are also further reducing time limits by making these deadlines suffocating with this amendment, in order to bring an action against the primary decision. You are broadening and continuing these procedures - a fast track paradox from nine months ago that was with the law, in eighteen months, and of course you are moving forward in the same time as a number of individual arrangements, such as creating towns in hospitality structures, which will then be granted to individuals, instead of free feeding, housing, accommodation and medical care, which refugees and immigrants should have. For all these reasons, we say that the amendment is unacceptable and that it should be withdrawn. We cannot accept it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u484	Thank you Mr. Karathanasopoulos from the Communist Party of Greece. Mr. George Lazarides has the floor from the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u485	Thank you, Mr President. Addressing the Opposition I would like to remind them that you can laugh a lot of people for a while, a few for a long, but not all of them forever. In any case, the Greeks have no memory of goldfish. Once again, I would remind the opposition that this government is trying to correct their own mistakes. Societies and economy have brought her into this situation. They picked up a patient with a heavy cold and made him severely ill in the intensive bed. The closed stores we see outside are their own business. This is not the task of this government. Of course, they closed the Greek businesses and made sure to set the ground for foreign businesses, these shopping centers, with which Thessaloniki and Athens were filled. They were trying to convince the Greeks that Greek merchants were counterproductive and accused. Okay, I'm not going to comment on the PASOK, but at least the New Democracy should be more careful in such positions, because this sector traditionally supported New Democracy. They were supposed to be trying to set up the ground, create a climate for investment. However, we did not see any investment from foreigners who had shaped an environment very friendly to foreign interests either. You've been acquitted, gentlemen, one-third of the Greeks. And the revelations that come, most of them are from your "friends" from abroad. They revealed that from the loans of 220 billion you took in these five years to save Greece, under 5% came to Greece. 95% more has gone to save European banks. We are now coming to the articles of the development law. It is stated that the minimum investment fund, which can be governed by the law for micro and small enterprises, is EUR 100,000 from EUR 150,000 and for social cooperatives EUR 75 000 from EUR 100,000. Investment projects are required to ensure the conditions for accessibility of small and medium-sized enterprises. That is something that we should point out. Indeed, it is very positive, because we care for people with disabilities to have comfortable accessibility where these investments are made. It is clear that a profitable use is needed in the seven years prior to the management use of the request for access and tax exemptions of 45% of the total aid, and so far it has been 10%. In particular, the provisions of Articles 1 to 3 set out the purpose and individual objectives of the draft law, including support for disadvantaged areas in the country, increasing employment, increasing the average size of enterprises, improving competitiveness in areas of high added value and intensification of knowledge, attracting foreign direct investment, etc. Articles 6 to 9 define the beneficiaries of aid for investment projects under the law to be approved and identify the sectors of activity covered or excluded from the aid schemes. I would like to speed up my position, Mr President, because time is going on. Articles 10 to 12 refer primarily to tax exemptions of 45% of total aid, and until now it has been up to 10%, as they are supported by them, and not, as has been the case to date, the existence of expenditure irrespective of the final result. And I'm not going to comment here on what we've got. They were familiar with the phenomena that appeared. Articles 42-46 define the aid scheme for new independent SMEs. The conditions to be met by undertakings are laid down in order to be regarded as new, independent, small and medium-sized enterprises and the eligible costs are listed. Provision is made for aid types, tax exemption, grant, leasing subsidy, etc. Articles 47-51 describes the aid scheme for innovative small and medium-sized enterprises. As you can see, this law places particular emphasis on small and medium-sized enterprises, which traditionally constituted the vertebral column of society and the economy of our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u486	Mr. Lazaridis, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u487	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. I go to Articles 62-64 where provisions are laid down for integrated spatial and sectoral projects. I'm hanging up here, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u488	Thank you, Mr. Lazarides.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u489	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u490	The SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Famelos, has been speaking for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u491	For two minutes, Mr President, if you will. Since much has been said about unemployment - Mr Constantinople is not here - I think it is worth tabling the communication of the 'ERGAN' system in plenary. It is a communication which we have today in our hands. Our country has a 15-year-old record on job creation in the first five months. From the beginning of the year to the end of May, there have been two hundred and one thousand jobs of employees, and only in May, the 'ERGANI', the official system that Mrs Asmakopoulou also knows, because we have contributed to its creation, had seventy-seven thousand jobs of employees. There are therefore new prospects for job recovery, which, obviously, together with the reversal of deregulation and the intensification of controls, give another environment to the development of work. We are sorry that, unfortunately, the New Democracy is not interested in the development DNA that the Minister has submitted at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u492	Left...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u493	Unfortunately, you don't care about the Left's point of view on development. For the Left, therefore, development, like all policy, is the reduction of inequalities, Mrs Asmakopoulou, which is of great concern to society. Of course you don't care, obviously because you don't even care about society. And on development issues you have accused us that we are not consistent and that we were against the former developmentists. But that's exactly what proves our consistency. We were against your proposals, because we knew you would freeze six and a half thousand projects and benefit only your own children, the 'Panama papers' and the tax evasion lists and that you would never strengthen the real economy and real work. And in this, then, we are consistently proving ourselves. But it doesn't matter what you think. It is important what the market thinks, what labour thinks, what society believes. You, we know you've resigned. You only deal with pot movements, you only deal with splitting. That's too bad. We didn't want you to quit. We just wanted you to get together.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u494	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds. He referred personally to me. He said my name.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u495	Mrs. Ammakopoulou, please. You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u496	He referred personally to me. I'll be very brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u497	There was no question of staff, but in any case, because you do not have a parliamentary representative in the Chamber, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u498	Thank you. I would just like to clarify, Mr President, that I have said that it is not about the world if it is cut off by pensions, that the ECHR, if you are taxing it, if you are taking out the professionals, if you are shutting down businesses because your DNA is left. And I said that because that was the argument of the Minister. The Minister from the ten minutes he had told us about DNA, trying to convince us - who I don't know, rather himself or you - that with all you guys are entitled to be called Lefters. "Resurrect" don't tell me. I have to tell you not to fool. And the "resign" that has been heard by you is very interesting. Aren't you listening to the thousands of people who are yelling tonight for you to resign? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u499	Permission is the square!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u500	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament under Rule 86 of the Constitution and the n. 3126/2003 "Prime responsibility of the Ministers", as currently in force, on 15 June 2016, criminal case law concerning the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks Mr Christos Spirtzis. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism is hereby concluded: 'Institutional framework for the establishment of private investment aid schemes for the regional and economic development of the country - Establishment of a Development Council and other provisions'. A request has been made for a roll-call vote on and on Articles 3, 7 and 67 by Members of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, which will take place tomorrow 16 June at 12.00 hours after parliamentary scrutiny, as well as the vote on the other articles and the vote on the whole. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-15-S1-commons.u501	With the consent of the House at 22.00 noon the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 16 June 2016 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate and b) legislative work.
