ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Good evening to everyone and everyone, until all the parties' representatives are together, I will read a few announcements. The Ministers for Foreign Affairs, Economy, Development and Tourism, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic, Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Maritime and Island Policy, the Deputy Minister for Economy, Development and Tourism, and the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, tabled a draft law on 15-1-2016: "Structuring the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on the promotion and mutual protection of investments". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. I also have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and the v. 3126/2003: “Prime responsibility of the Ministers”, as in force, on 14-1-2016, criminal case law relating to the former Deputy Minister of Economy and Finance Mr. Antonio Besa. In today's debate, by the People's Association - Golden Dawn, the Member of Parliament, Mr Evangelos Karakostas, is appointed as special speaker. Parliamentary Group of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR is appointed as a special speaker, the MP, Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou. The JRC defines as a parliamentary representative the Member, Mr Manolis Syntakis. The European Parliamentary Representative, George Amyras, is appointed from the River as a Parliamentary representative. Of the Independent Greeks, MP Mr. Kokkalis is appointed as a special speaker. The Union is designated as a special speaker, Mr Dimitrios Kavaleslas. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK A sole debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: 'Preparation of corrigendum amendments to the Convention for the Verification of Credentials between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Canada by exchanging financial communications'. The draft law was passed by a majority vote in the Standing Committee and is brought to the House under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of this agreement. However, since a ministerial amendment has been tabled to you in the bill, I would suggest that, if the rapporteurs so wish, special speakers or parliamentary representatives for five minutes each from each party and on the second issue, and even the first one, if they wish, even if they had agreed in the previous debate. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. So does a colleague want to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u3	For what?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u4	For the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u5	For everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u6	Is everything in it, or does it have any objections?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u7	We will not separate them, because there is the amendment. I propose to this five-minute period, apart from the amendment, if one of the parties that has agreed to ratify the agreement is to be placed on the agreement. Let us not have two debates, namely that the ratification should not end first and then enter the second part, but that the debate should take place once and for all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u8	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u9	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u10	I am sorry, because I have just entered the Chamber, and I see that an amendment has been distributed, which, Minister, if I am well aware of, is absolutely irrelevant to the legislation to be discussed and which, again if I understand it, has been tabled in due course for the National Broadcasting Council. Excuse me, what kind of legacy is this? In order for us in the Opposition to be able to understand and work together to legislate properly on what is this, which, on Monday afternoon, 17:30, before five minutes, requires, in a debate on the ratification of the Treaty, that an amendment concerning the National Broadcasting Council, which no one reads, be adopted? I'm glad Mr. Pappas has come here. I imagine Mr. Pappas will tell us what this is all about.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u11	I didn't hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u12	It's okay you didn't hear me. I repeat. It doesn't bother me at all. We expect an explanation from the government, what this is all about.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u13	I think it has to do with tomorrow's meeting of the Conference of Presidents, where the Board of Directors of the National Broadcasting Council will be elected. I therefore hope that the Minister will say so better than I do, it is a matter of urgency that his exact number has been decided. Minister, would you like to place yourself? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u14	Madam President, I do not know whether you would like the other opposition parties to take the lead.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u15	Let's hear the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u16	As you wish, with your permission, I may have to come back if this is necessary. As you know, Greece is the only European Union country where there has never been a competition for the licensing of television stations. I think the House, in a creative, tiring way, voted in favour of this bill. We are now shortly before the end of the process. I said at the time that voting in favour of the bill is only the beginning, because - as you know very well - the establishment of the National Broadcasting Council is required, the legal form, beyond doubt, for the competition to take place. There is provision for the need for a majority of 4/5 at the Conference of Presidents of the Parliament to agree to set up the National Broadcasting Council. It is clear that this extremely increased majority responded to a parliament which had far fewer parties and only required the agreement of the old mighty parties to the once-ever bipartisan, PASOK and New Democracy, so that this majority would be formed. You realise that in a multi-party Parliament environment and precisely because we are consistent with what we said during the debate on the bill, that is to say that we want this process to proceed with the widest possible consensus, we believe that this amendment is necessary in order to incorporate proposals for members of the National Broadcasting Council from the Anti-Population Party. With a multi-party parliament, then, there is even greater need for compositions, for balances and for political armouring of the National Broadcasting Council. I think that this amendment should be accepted - and I hope - from New Democracy and I say this in the sense that I would remind the House that when we discussed the bill - and once again, without half a word, I would like to welcome it - the provisions concerning the competition were voted for not only by the parliamentary majority but also by the Central Association, the PASOK and the Potami, and that is what I would like to say as a very positive starting point, a very positive legacy, which I think all the Parliament's wings should be safeguarded and not injured. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u17	Thank you. What other colleague would want to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u18	Madam President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u19	Here you go, Mr. Syrigos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u20	I would like to say a few words on the subject of the amendment. First of all, I would like to say that we as SYRIZA consider that it is facilitated by the procedures and, in any case, does not conflict with the constitutional requirements which provide for the procedure in question. I still have to say a few more words on the subject of the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u21	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u22	Here you go, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Madam President. We should discuss the matter of the late Ministerial amendment, bearing in mind, in mind, our minds and our perspectives the real potential of the National Broadcasting Council. So the PSE, with the law of Mr. Papa, Law No.4339/2015, is in fact the couch on the essential element of the licensing of the channels. It simply needs a reasoned opinion under Rule 2. His role is not decisive. One of the prisoners. So, I just want to say that there's been a talk just how a scarecrow a little bit we're going to enclose it. The decisive competence had to be at the PSE and not the Minister, the Minister concerned, who can decide how many licenses he would give and how many...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u24	The competition is being held by the PSE.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u25	The tendering procedure shall take place in the practical place. The EPP does not have the decisive authority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u26	No, you're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u27	You have it and it is an opportunity to tell us why you said the day before yesterday that licences will be granted to less than five channels. With what reason? So how do you anticipate the thoughts of the PSE members when the composition will finally be legal and complete? There is this: Why didn't you wait one day? Tomorrow at the Conference of Presidents you could very well put it so that openly we can discuss what anyone thinks of this late amendment to go from seven to nine PSE members, "we are raising it just to share the pie and so achieve consensus". But that won't be a substantial consensus. You must deepen consensus, not share more positions in parties. Which parties have you consulted, which would you like a member more or less? Tell us. And on what criteria? Why nine, Minister, not twelve, not five? Or maybe five understands it on your own logic. Why not nine? Why not eleven? We are talking about this, but at the same time today we would simply judge, we would shake hands on the Canadians, Canada, the friend country. In real life, when you give a handshake, you weigh the other one. So you weigh Canada and what do you see? First of all, the Canadians are more than us. Thirty-thirty-five million, we. Forty-three years old their Prime Minister, Trido, forty of one of ours. And then chaos begins. Thirty Ministers all have the Canadian government with a wide variety of diversity, and we have forty-seven Ministers for the eleven million Greeks. I say this to see a little difference in political perception which, to a certain extent, seems to me to be spreading over and reflected in the fact that you are bringing us an amendment to the ESS one day before the substantial debate in the Conference of Presidents and 'the glutton'. I conclude with that, Madam President. I expect to speak in a second round, if necessary, after I hear the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Papatheodorou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, I would like to ask two questions concerning the amendment, but also what you have brought us here today, namely the debate and the vote on the corrective measures, which have been made in the agreement with Canada. Mr. Poppa, since you're here, when did you actually discover that it needed to strengthen the PSE to respond to the modern-day digital age? Today when the amendment comes late, last minute, five minutes before we enter the Chamber or two months ago when we were discussing it? We have told you that you will reach a dead end, because the way you have been dealing with so far is an indication of an unreliability that you are walking around this House. This unreliability has to do with a political plan. You say from the outset what you want to check and there we can make the criticism, but at the last moment, Mr Pappa, say that this will strengthen the operation of the National Broadcasting Council in the face of the challenges of the digital age, at least - at least - I would say - inconceivable and childish. The second is this: it is important for the way this House operates, it is important for the ministries as well. It is also important, Minister of Justice, that you have accepted to introduce such an amendment, and I can tell you that because, when I was in your place, I did not accept the ratification of a treaty. So the question is that we have an urgent operation right now. We've been talking for two and a half months. You have effectively abolished the independent administrative authorities and we are discussing their reconstructing with various pirates you have occasionally made out, Mr Poppa. However, this is neither an urgent one nor an amendment that can be described as an amendment. Also, if you really wanted to have debates and open procedures tomorrow, you should have opened this up on your own, you would have explained why we should go from seven to nine. It's nothing secret. Everything can be discussed in a democratic function. Why should you, at the last minute, bring in such an amendment, which I think does not offer much to the quality of the parliamentary work? What's the point? Composition? To be more consensual? Is there to be greater representativeness? Why can't that be done in the normal way? There is a normal way of working democratic dialogue. You can announce it, get the reviews, get what we believe would be positive or negative on everyone's part and normally come to another bill after Parliament has been informed. I believe that in other cases you have acted in the same way and I have told you that this is not a way of operating the parliamentary work. I shall return, Madam President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u30	Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor. I haven't put time, but don't exceed the five-minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, you are bringing an amendment, namely, as soon as we have entered our Chamber, you are giving us a document and you are saying 'take a position'. Is that the creative way you said before? Is this a creative way? And you bring it - take note - of a bill concerning certain amendments made to a contract. We don't understand this practice. That is the issue. Secondly, let us leave what the amendment says in it, namely that the proposed provision comes to meet the current requirements and the new data, etc. These are the sauces - let me have the expression - and they are inconsistent with what you have said. At least what we understood from your position is that there is a crowd of interest in the PSE positions. Obviously, the specific number that is planned is not enough for all these suitors and you are coming to increase the number of PSE members. That's the reality. These come out of your position. You are therefore underestimating the intelligence of ours and the intelligence of the world. For these two reasons, therefore, we welcome and vote 'the present'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u32	The President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u33	Tomorrow morning, I'll see you better. The Conference of Presidents will be more clear on the issues and with names for the entire proposal to be tabled. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, on this amendment, which the government has brought to bear, and which would, in fact, facilitate the role of the President of this House - in this case, because I do not like to speak to a third party as if it were transcendent institutions elsewhere - in making the relevant discussions with the parties. In order to put forward a proposal, the representatives of all the parties in the House outside the Golden Dawn party, with which I did not have a debate, were informed, because they have in any case formulated the view of not participating in this procedure and the composition of the council. I am telling you this not to abdicate you - because this is a primary debate - that you may not have been told by a number of parties representatives that they were aware of and have discussed with them that this amendment would come from the government, but I say it is not to be regarded as suddenly, surprisingly, at some point as having come to put on a subject that can feed on. We all realise that the debate is essentially not about seven, nine, eleven or five. As far as I am concerned, if the House does not want to make it easier for the government, so that it does not make it easier for me and the Conference, let us not move forward. That's not the point. It's the point. And the substance, let me say - and I was referring to this when I told you that tomorrow, the debate, which will be closed tomorrow morning, is that we have two and a half months, perhaps more, than the adoption of this law, now. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please watch, to be, at least in the facts, agree. The Constitution, the constitutional legislature says - and rightly says - that we need to look for the widest possible compositions for the independent authorities and that is why 4/5 has entered. We all realise that this is extremely difficult with an eighth-party parliament - it is very clear - when two parties do not participate, after the Golden Dawn - which has directly said about the independent authorities - and the JRC says'residents' in these procedures. So of the twenty-three members of the Conference of Presidents, only twenty would be willing to enter this debate and the eighteen should agree on the independent authorities. It's extremely difficult. Unless we don't want these compositions to be made. In the previous period, for three years - and I can do with them, but it is not today's debate, to refer to people, to things, to dates, to proposals - and it has been very difficult not to vote in favour of an independent authority, but to add a member or a president, etc. This, although from the point of view of the Officerial Response - us at that time, SYRIZA - to each of these authorities and to specific names - I can speak, but I will tell you that I will not do so - there was an excellent intention to recognise that the majority has a first word and that is why the proposal is made by the President of the Parliament in the establishment of the independent authorities. He does not veto, block, and undermine the establishment of independent authorities, the Civic Opposition. With this we have moved for three years - I repeat, look at the Minutes, if you like - and there has been no composition on them. For my part, because I had this jurisdiction, the New Democracy colleagues are very well aware that I have not only respected the successive procedures needed in the statutes, until the Head of the New Democracy is elected, but in a way that is very special and without any leakage, with great discretion, I have formulated and proposed, which I have given to the representatives of the parties - in the final phase now, when it was for the second round, awaiting the election of the Head of the New Democracy, as was explicitly said to me that it was the only not typical but essential obstacle, because we are talking about consensus, it is not a question of formulas and I think it is acceptable that this level of coexistence with us - to reach agreement in any way, not to veto. So - because I have read at noon various information which has been available, which I hope will also be disproved in Ethiopia, I would like, in view of tomorrow's debate - which is a prerequisite for a consensus on the part of the Officerial Representation - possibly of the other parties, which I understood from Mr Amyras, from what he said - to remove whatever responsibilities the Minister has already given the Minister of Law, namely the number of permits, etc., to enter a debate, let me say that this is a procedure which leaves the institutional procedure that we have been politely in the House for two months now. Obviously, it's a political debate. Anyone can say what they want and what they want. I repeat, however, that the institutional process that we have reverberated has remained completely open, and - if you like - the essential procedure. Because, when the proposal was made - the names of the persons, I repeat, under no circumstances have they leaked from my office or from me, but obviously because they have come to the attention of the representatives of the parties, in a way they broke into two weeks ago - no one has said that the proposal is a proposal - allow me the bad expression, but I say it - a party tube or anything else. It was and is an open proposal for further processing and acceptance of proposals. For example, a party has already made a proposal that has been tabled in writing and because it has been tabled in writing, it knows its representative that he has been accepted and will be in the proposal I will table tomorrow. Tomorrow, for my part, a proposal will be tabled either with seven or nine members. Already one member of the PSE is present because he is in his composition. It's Mrs. Papadopoulou. So we shall either go with six or eight people, if we accept - I repeat - the amendment, which gives a greater opportunity for consensus and composition. The rest of this, namely the figures, is around the debate, do not talk about them. Let's actually go. Will we accept three months later, which is the law for a new television scene in our country and for a new competitive procedure, this process of blocking and maintaining this present blurred and to some extent folding television scenery? That is the political issue. And on the political issue, every political force tomorrow will be placed in favour, against, possibly by making a counter-proposal or a composition for additional participation. I have been waiting today - and I want to be upright, and I am speaking in public - for a further proposal to come for one or two persons on the part of Officerial Response so that a broad composition of the proposal can be made. Instead, there may be a blockade. I hope that by tomorrow at the Conference of Presidents, any objections will be lifted and there will be a unanimous decision on this critical issue, if possible. In any case, I believe that this procedure will end tomorrow, and in this regard I ask you to speak on the matter of six or eight, because it is much better to do this with more members. And you are wrong when you say to Mr Pappas that the ones in the rapporteur's report are overlaps. Do you know why? Because the PSE has a lot of work to do. It has a daily control of compliance with the provisions of the Constitution by all broadcasting media. It also has the possibility and the obligation to remove licences or control the financial resources of the licensed complexes and a number of other things. Being more members of this class, that is, it really will help. It will help a lot in their work and in their operation every day. Perhaps it is not - and you rightly pointed it out - the first one that was in our minds. I was very clear and detailed on this issue and I would ask all parties to have a spirit of consensus and composition by tomorrow morning, in order to move on to this independent authority and the others that then come, such as the ASP, the Citizens' Counselor, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u34	Before we continue I would like to make a statement to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the top Western theories we are attending our meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, and toured to the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", forty-three students and students and three educational attendants from the 5th Patras High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Dendia, Mr Cavalellas has asked for the floor from the Centroon Union, which he has not spoken about. Mr. Cavalella, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u35	Firstly, our position is positive when it comes to extending the members of the National Broadcasting Council. We welcome enlargement, as long as it is done in a good way, with democratic thoughts and not for alteration. We call for this enlargement to be possible for all parties to have at least one member, because that is how much more ensures the position that we have, more guarantee democraticity and proportionality. We therefore call for at least one member to be present from each party. However, we have a serious objection to the way in which licences are to be granted. There is the government's position to be given by means of a tender, that is to say, whoever gives most. This doesn't look very left, whoever gives most to get permission. In other words, the croissants only get permission, without any other criteria. We in this enlargement, which we welcome, also call for members to be able to judge on different criteria, on the basis of social criteria, with quality criteria. We also call for more molecules to be taken seriously into account. Because a station, which has made some investments and has employees, would be unreasonable to lose its license from someone who gives 10,000 more euros. In any case, we're positive. I would also like to point out that, because today is difficult, there should be the possibility for channels to pay back their demanding paradox, their demand for participation. As far as the second case is concerned, the possibility of one of the two countries, between Canada and Greece, issuing any person, is one of our reservations. It concerns the possibility, with the consent of the person concerned, without an official extradition procedure. This can result from pressure on the subject, by extortion. Of course, we recognise that Canada is an advanced society, a democratic society, but here there is an ambiguity, at least as far as the description is concerned. What would this non-formal extradition procedure be? We would like to have more information on this. In any case, we have voted in favour of it, that is to say, and we are waiting for a response on the issues that we have raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Teddy, come on. Now I'm going to start putting time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u37	Now you're gonna put time? You're laughing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u38	Madam President, I will respect the time you put me in, even if I am the first to have the time limit.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u39	Because the second round begins.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u40	First of all, I would like to point out that introducing an amendment to a sanction is not customary. I am not saying that in the sinful Greek Parliament - to be honest, no sinner - has been observed in the past. I say, however, that in any case it is directly contrary to the way in which the Cyrosis is introduced today - that is to say, Articles 108 and 112 of the Rules of Procedure - and therefore also includes an element which is incomplete. We must also add to this the element of the election, namely the sudden, because of course I fully respect the President of Parliament and personally. Of course, as far as I am concerned, there have been rumours of impending legislative intervention by the Government since this morning, but I must say that this has become so common that it does not concern anyone. The government now and on a professional basis is a surprise to the national Parliament. In any case, this very unrealistic situation cannot be the ground on which the consent of the national Parliament will be built. I would also like to say that it does not exist here - the few minutes I have had time to look at this cloak - a table of amended provisions, as the government is required. The necessary evaluation report does not exist, in fact, which clearly states that it creates expenditure to the detriment of the state budget. In addition, it directly opposes - and we have said so before - not only in the Rules of Procedure, but also in Article 74 of the Constitution. It is well-known that there are no amendments to be discussed. Indeed, the Bureau of Parliament and you, Madam President, have been kind enough to deal with the problem, you have widened the limits of the matter, but honestly the way in the current Act, in any way, a broad interpretation of this amendment has been completely escaped. I would also like to say that there is, of course, a fundamental issue, ladies and gentlemen, because the President rightly said that, behind all of this, there is a fundamental issue - and I would like to say that there is, of course, a fundamental issue, of course. What's the matter with the substance? What do we have to deal with here? Here we are dealing with - you will forgive me the phrase - something that reminds me of a bazaar of the greedy kind. And what do I mean? We put two other positions in place so that we can succeed in putting two other parties in place so that we can finally achieve the 4/5 projection. Was this the prediction of the legislator and the constitutional legislature? To extend indefinitely and to magnify the compositions, to have one's own, so that we can achieve consensus by the position of the two? Is this the spirit introduced by the Government of the first time left and to which we of the Opposition are also invited to consent? I want to say frankly: I do not know what position the parties of the minor opposition will hold, but I am sure that much stronger and stronger than we in the New Democracy will reject this provision, because this provision exposes us to the Greek people. That is to say, if we agree to this provision and if we agree to discuss it first and then vote on it, that we are ready through a bazaar, to put one of our own, to accept anything. There is no point in that. The substance lies in being our own man in the place that we want, in order for our own man to exercise control. We in the New Democracy reject this logic vertically. We believe that it is completely contrary, in any case, to the logic itself, as is the case with Mr von Wogau. Mr Pappa, provision of 15(2) of the Constitution. But the constitutional legislator wants it. But beyond the constitutional legislature, Greek society is now being envisioned. This layout is a set-out display. It sets out the whole of the national Parliament and is in no way the foundation of any consensus. I tell you very clearly, ladies and gentlemen, and if I may turn to you, Madam President: the New Democracy has no intention of agreeing to such disgrace.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u41	Madam President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u42	Mr Karakostas has asked for the floor, who has not spoken in the first place. Mr. Carachosta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u43	We have heard of democratic pluralism. Of course, there is neither democratic nor pluralism, because for at least three years the third political force of the country, the Golden Dawn Association, has been excluded from every media, while the National Television Council has been vigilant. In the media, therefore, we have a peculiar agenda against the Golden Dawn, which we must denounce to the Greek people, stating that we are voting on the amendment'residents'. From that point on, I have heard the President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi, referring to an intermittent television scenery. Of course we agree. However, specific parties have contributed to the formation of this intertwined television landscape. And what I would like to note is that in this interconnected television scenery they are participating, parading, they have found a stadium of MPs and SYRIZA and executives. It is therefore somewhat contradictory what has been said before. That is why we consider the intentions of the government to be anything but good. And, of course, we believe, information pimps will continue to be not the fourth, but the sovereign power of this place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u44	Mr Nindia, because you referred to me for the irregular, in any case, of today's amendment and, because I am much younger than you, before I came here in the debate, I would also mention a ratification of an agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Qatar, on 28-2-2013, which, on the same day, voted on an amendment - ad hoc, in fact, as with today's issue - which extends the term of office of members of the independent authorities for a period of two months.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u45	Why are you up, Mr. Teddy?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u46	When I get to me, ladies and gentlemen, when I'm older, I get up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u47	Did it have anything to do with Qatar? No relationship. It was considered to be an extraordinary event, as the Government today considers it to be an extraordinary event to raise the members of the Broadcasting Council with a specific reasoning, which you might disagree, but if you read the recently adopted law, the Broadcasting Council will examine the files of all the contestants. It has to do with the whole competitive process. Because someone mentioned - Mr Amyras, who was wrong - that in Article 1 it says that the broadcasting board is responsible for the competitive process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u48	Not for the number, I said...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u49	Do you understand, seven people, one missing, one absent or anyone displeased, who will do all these tasks? I have here, therefore, if you also want for your own use, at least fifty sanctions for agreements, where there were amendments which were irrelevant to sanctions. And of course, everyone has a subjective view of what is extraordinary, what is urgent, etc. I wanted to tell you that because you referred to me and my kindness. It is not only a kindness, it is also an understanding of parliamentary practice, which, as you can see, has been a practice over many years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u50	Madam President, may I tell you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u51	Yes, you can tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u52	First of all, thank you for going to the trouble of answering me and, of course, on the subject of obviously a parliamentary youth, I intend to make no comment. But I said to you before, Madam President, and I also said to my fellow Members there are no sins in the Greek Parliament. The Greek Parliament has been in breach of its Rules of Procedure on several occasions. And many times he has violated the relevant provision of Article 74 of the Constitution. The fact that you invoke a whole series of violations of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House will allow me to say that, in no way eliminates any further infringement. I would like to remind you of something that I did not mention in the protology - because I had no reason to do so, on the contrary I confessed to the mistakes of the previous ones - that the current government and the present governmental majority were elected, precisely invoking the failure to repeat the errors in question. So how, now, is it possible for a government elected by this project and a parliamentary majority that came here to legislate on the grounds of its moral advantage, to legalise its actions on the basis of - you want unconstitutional? - anti-constitutional - I agree with you first - the practices of the past? And of course, Madam President, even a first-year student of law in the example, which you were kind enough to read to us, he would find and understand the enormous discrepancy between the two arrangements. Because it is another matter to prolong the existing and other issues for reasons of urgency is to introduce a provision to the Conference of Presidents, which, as I said before, is intended to take over the parties' attitude, that is to say, to close the eye to the parties in the Olive Group and to tell them that they do not have any concern, it also has for you here. This, Madam President, will allow me to tell you, the right-wing people do not understand. To you first time left, maybe they say something.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Dendia, the constitutional legislator did not know when he had the 4/5 arrangement that there would be a crisis in the country, that memorials would come, or much more that Parliament would have eight parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u54	Come on, Jesus Christ! Are you forbidden? What are you talking about? Aren't you not going to get any better out of this Parliament?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u55	So you understand that there are issues on which politics is called upon to deal with reality. And as long as he doesn't deal with it, but he makes declarations of principle, then we can't regulate reality, because what politics does is that. If he can't do that, he can't do anything. There are independent authorities that have no members. How do we deal with this? That is what you are calling on you to answer, as parties and a Qualified Opposition, and that is what you are not answering. I'm sorry, Mr. Dendia. You say some things about principle. What principles? Here's the thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u56	Do you want me to answer again?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u57	Does the amendment answer that? By choice of the people, do you answer...?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u58	I shall now give the floor in the order of the parties. Mr. Dendias spoke, Mr. Giolas will now speak on behalf of SYRIZA. You all have five minutes, and you won't three times, to talk to the Minister, to see what else can be added next. Mr. Gillola, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, it is not one of the happiest moments to defend amendments which have nothing to do with the draft legislation under discussion - a convention. But you have already responded - and I think it was a good thing - that it was at the moment that they are now being done, especially if there is a need unavoidable. I did not see that being understood by the colleagues of the Staff Regulations. Of course I understand both the constitutional and the reasons for the others. However, I cannot understand why, for two and a half months, the EPP head, the downturn situation, the situation of non-government in reality is not understood and it is not necessary to replace and supplement the PSE members, so that it can in the end manage such a sensitive area for which a law has been passed for two and a half months and it cannot be acted upon. That's what they're actually answering? Why are they escaping? And another thing: if we degenerate Parliament on these terms, that with two members the government will be able to find two people to serve the board where they are paid - listen! - with the astronomical sum of EUR 43,000 both, uh, I think this thing should not be called from serious lips. We are also speaking every year, of course, of the amount of insurance premiums. It must not be over 1,500 euros a month. If, therefore, Parliament is not able to do this so low and you think that all our choices are made only for that reason, then there is no need for another response. Answer you, why would you want the PSE head for two and a half months, while you knew it, and it was said by official lips that this amendment will be passed today or at least will come to plenary? So you're aware. Answer what you are proposing, in order to decide, with this large majority, the required 4/5, so that these independent authorities can finally acquire management, which is so necessary both for this reason and for the assignment and determination of television frequencies. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Theocharopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u61	With a great deal of surprise, indeed, we have today seen this amendment in the draft bill "Principle of corrigendum amendments to the Edition Convention between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Canada by exchanging financial communications". And I stress that the bill we would have been discussing today - or at any rate, since the agreement was in place - would have gone ahead, but suddenly we learned that an amendment is coming late in such a draft law that has nothing to do with it. And we are talking about the procedure, because this is not a point of order, to be discussed, so that we can discuss this particular issue. Because in advance we could not be negative - for example, the increase in the number of members - if we could discuss with a more normal process. And, of course, Mr Minister, Mr Papatheodorou told you before and on behalf of the Democratic Alliance, you could not accept that amendment in this bill today. Look, we were saying - and we are clear - that this procedure went hand in hand about three months ago when it started. In order to reach consensus, because consensus is really necessary, and we want it to be pursued on these issues, we must not take it as a mockery. And I think that with today's procedure, for no reason, on a point of order at the moment, but this point of order may also be very substantial, they are blocking the process that will follow at the Conference of Presidents. Because the Conference of Presidents is responsible for the issue of composition. We are therefore not entering such a debate today. Today we are discussing whether we should all of a sudden discuss and vote for this change. So I say to you that since the consultation has not been carried out - it seems that it is not mature at all, according to what has been said so far - that this process of consensus, which is also necessary to deal with the process of the Conference of Presidents tomorrow, should not be taken away from it at the moment and that it should be discussed. We've been waiting so long for all of us and all of a sudden there's something like that coming. We have heard a argument that differs from the argument and the explanatory statement. We have heard before, for example, that this increase is coming from seven to nine people, in order to achieve consensus. Nowhere is that written in the explanatory statement. The explanatory statement states that this increase requires the transition to the digital era and in particular in view of the start of the authorisation process, which will be conducted under the responsibility of the PSE. I imagine that everything in the explanatory statement did not understand half an hour before today's procedure. It is therefore funny to discuss that this amendment is being put forward for this reason at the moment. The numbers may not have come out, for whatever reason, maybe some of them here could have talked to them, but there is no debate under this procedure. I therefore think that a solution which unblocks the process aimed at the Conference of Presidents should be able to achieve, without such defects as today's, the consensus procedure is to withdraw the amendment. And if there is and mature the consultation process, you can reintroduce it in another way and in another way, which will also have the consent of the parties, so that the process can proceed with what we all want, the redefinition of the new broadcasting field on transparent terms. Madam President, I would like to point out this: it is not possible for every procedure which we say is in the wrong direction, for example, that an amendment is coming late, an amendment that is out of hand and irrelevant of the bill, to say here that this has been done before. The Greek Parliament cannot continue this way. We now need to decide that we are going to legislate properly. The SYRIZA spokesman also said that he does not honour the Greek Parliament at this time, but he will enter the debate. So either we decide or we will continue in a process that does not honor any of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u62	Mr. Synthraki, would you like to place yourself? Because then I will give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u63	Madam President, on the same subject?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u64	For whatever you want. It's on both issues together. Talk about the contract, the ratification, whatever you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u65	In any case, the procedure became a ‘grass’. We were placed as a Communist Party of Greece in relation to the amendment that came. I have nothing to say about it. We are voting on the motion for a resolution. In relation to the draft law of the Ministry of Justice on the contract between Greece and Canada, we were placed in the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice. But let me briefly say the opinion of the Communist Party of Greece. This draft law, in fact, introduces some legislative improvements to the contract and seems to be roughly formulated. Of course, it had come back in 2002 on a PASOK government, and then we voted against it and expressed our opinion there too, namely the reason why we voted against this convention. First of all, let us say: these improvements do not change the substance of the convention at all, namely, the reactionary content, in that these proposals which are made have no meaning or - if you like - there was no need to draw up this convention since there was a legislative framework covering the cases of people who really had to be adopted by one State in another, ensuring certain conditions for a fair procedure for them. We have again expressed some serious disagreements with this convention. In relation to Article 1, it is stated that the Contracting Parties between Greece and Canada undertake to deliver each other, which is located on their territory, including their nationals, namely Greece. They are obliged to hand over nationals and third countries, regardless of whether they are refugees, whether immigrants, people, who are struggling for their freedom, for democratic rights and who have fought in their own country on these issues. In Article 2, the limits of the threatened or residual penalty of at least six months are very low, which provides for extradition. In our view, this provision reduces rights, reduces civil liberties, since for someone who has committed even a small offence it may be necessary to extradite it. This is paragraph 2 of the same article. In our view, there is an unacceptable generalization. No account shall be taken of the essential elements of the offence, but of all the acts, of all the offences attributed to the applicant, i.e. the one whose extradition is sought. The point is that it is not defined who and how it will assess these criteria in order to determine the whole so that there is no arbitraryness. Paragraph 4 of that Article provides that 'crime' may be granted for acts, as corrected in the bill, which do not fulfil the conditions laid down in paragraph 1, where the application for extradition provides for a 'professional' - as is once again corrected - which justifies the extradition of the person. This means, in practical terms, that the prosecution authorities of a State are able to build or exploit such an offence, for various reasons, to obtain the extradition of the person they seek and then judge him for the other offences for which they have not been able to seek extradition to date. It is also Article 11. It is particularly negative and, in our view, introduces the dangerous principle, namely the consent of the person sought in his extradition. We all know what instruments are used to get such consents. It is also Article 16 which annulls a democratic authority which has been conquered and guaranteed some guarantees, the specialty principle, and Article 22 where judicial review for the extradition procedure is excluded, thereby creating serious risks of arbitrariness. For all these reasons, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are reconstructing our opposition to this convention and that is why we are voting against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u66	Golden Dawn spokesman didn't talk about the contract, while they're in reserve. And because you have not finished your time, Mr Caracostas, I give you the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u67	The "Principle of amending the Convention on the Version between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Canada by exchanging financial communications" will vote 'present' in principle and 'present' in all articles, indicating again, as we did in the debate that took place in the committee, the fact that the whole debate is hypocritical. We mentioned a concrete example, which relates to the Italian authorities' request for the extradition of five left-wing citizens who were identified as participating in incidents in Milan, Italy, and who, after apparently political intervention, did not issue Greece in Italy. As I mentioned in the committee, no one condemned these defendants. On the contrary, Golden Dawn has been convicted by all political parties and journalists before even being tried. So what we are saying is that every rebel should take responsibility for his actions. They should therefore have been extradited to be tried for their actions, taking their responsibilities into account. This as an example of what kind of power these sanctions have are signed and voted on within the Greek Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u68	Madam President, I ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u69	Madam President, I ask for the floor. I haven't talked to him for the second time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u70	Say what? Same again? Is there anything new?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u71	I will talk about ratification, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u72	May I speak on the Rules of Procedure, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Voridis, Mr. Dendias told me that I have goodness. You are neither a speaker nor a parliamentary representative in this procedure. So it's not predictable, but I'll see it until that moment arrives.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u74	Madam President, may I? I would like to speak on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u75	Now Mr. Amyras will be speaking for three minutes. You have the floor, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I will try, with all due respect, to enrich your information and your knowledge, Madam President, about Mr.4339 on television licences. Article 1 states, in general and vaguely, that the procedure for the opening of the tendering procedure shall be carried out by the PSE. But the junk and the substance are in Article 2. In Article 2, therefore, the law stipulates that the PSE merely provides a reasoned opinion and not a responsibility for the number of licences, for example.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u77	In relation to what?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u78	Number of permits. That is the essential, great difference and that is what we want to denounce. We say that the burden of the decision must be shifted by a Minister, the Minister concerned, to an independent authority. What independent principle are we talking about, when the amendment to increase the number of PSE members, from seven to nine, becomes clear, as we have heard, to share some positions with the parties? So, is this how we're going to deal with the independent authorities as a party grouper? "Take a proxy and fill out the 4/5"? That is, a level downwards, a levelling-down towards the customer state. No, the consent to filling, the legal composition of the PSE can only be done if we find the excellent ones and deepen them, not by sharing positions in clienteles. One final comment. The annual cost of EUR 43 000 for the two extra members of the PSE, from seven to nine, proposed by the government, I have the feeling that it would get a lot more space if the PSE could be served with people on the front line - and I am referring to officials - because it subordinates and cannot have a seat on the entire television scene, as well as if, at last, we decided not to leave the institutional process exposed, as the President of Parliament said, by having all the independent authorities headless and orphans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u79	Mr. Amyuras, with these two people, we don't fill 4/5. Do the arithmetic. There's no such matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u80	The deal is...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u81	Leave that now. Mr. Voridis, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u82	You're acting like Mrs. Konstantopoulou, commenting on everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u83	There are limits. I can't stay voiceless.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u84	Madam President, excuse me. I would like a minute, if possible, to address Mr Amyras and to reply, because this is a plenary session. We are all aware that it is neither television channel nor amphitheater. He directly spoke of a client system, on the occasion of both of them and others. I repeat, without having leaked anything from me or from my office, that the first basket of nominations we had thought about has been known for 15 days. I would ask Mr Amyras - I am using the verb 'please' and not something else - to say for which of these eight, nine people, or for the other two proposals, three who have come from other parties and from his party, he imply that he has anything to do with a client system or that he is not of high value. Evidently ten worthy compositions can be found. Alas! But because things have been denominationd for 15 days and because they have been seeing us now, and that is what the world is going through publicly, it is not right that the names, which have already been deposited, insinuate or say about a customer system and customer relations and so on. This corn, if it has no name and surname, other than what it contains, will be stopped in this Chamber. I would like to ask you very much about one - one of the names that has been tabled, regardless of whether we agree or disagree, Mr Amyras - I am not talking about anyone else - to say whether even one is the most serious charge that has been brought to me personally and possibly the majority has launched. These things can no longer pass without explanation when, for our part, we follow 100% of the institutional process and, unfortunately, do not have a past on this by others in the previous phase.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u85	Madam President,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Amyra, here you go, come in.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u87	Of course, I will reply and say: First of all, I expect the President of this House officially to present now, here, the names he proposes and not the debate to take place on leaks which have been unscrupulously or deliberately taken out. One of the prisoners. And, secondly, the client-like smell - not to look at the wider environment, are appointed brothers, cousins, mother-in-laws and acquaintances, in the context of the general context - emerges because the President of Parliament says, in part, replacing the Conference of Presidents tomorrow, "I will give the PSE more positions to propose the parties, to reach a consensus". Is it quantitative or qualitative? This is the difference between excellence, which we say must exist, whether it is five EPPs, seven or three. If the parties are really responsible for getting this independent authority out of the lethargy, they will be able to agree. It certainly has the initiative of the government, but I expect Mr Voutsi to present here, for the Minutes, the official names of those who he proposes and very gladly to put forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u88	We will not now replace the Conference of Presidents here and everyone understands, Mr Amyras, what you have said and what you have answered. Here, with you, Mr Vorides, I say that you have not been designated as rapporteur or speaker. It's Mr. Georgios. Is he giving you his turn?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u89	I am not asking for the floor in this order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u90	On what arrangement? We have no other provision for speeches. I announced it before.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u91	Article 67. I want to talk about an incidental matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u92	By the way, good. You have two minutes. He wants two signatures.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u93	They're telling you he wants two signatures. I'd suggest, before I get into the process, that I collect the signatures, you give me the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u94	Okay, well, you'll also get me the signatures. Thank you. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u95	One point which is created and seems to be typical - and I say it to the President but also to you, Madam President - is that an amendment has been tabled. What text has the amendment been tabled? In a text of ratification, which is discussed by what provision? With 112. With Rule 112, as you know, the debate is limited. The Heads of Parliament or the Parliamentary Representatives, or those who object, are speaking. Hence, Madam President, you have followed this procedure. This is only about sanctions for international conventions, because they are negotiated texts and the House cannot intervene. But this is a substantive provision, a provision on which debate must take place and, indeed, an enlarged one. Members must be registered, there must be a broad debate, we must see their desirability, we must see what it is. So there is already a point of order here. I say, therefore, because this is obviously a provision that is completely fragmented, which is now a limited issue - I am raising the seven members of the PSE to nine - take note of what is being created. You say, Madam President, 'but, you know, the House has become an eight-party and so now what to do?' 'To increase them, in order for them to be and be built', says the President, 'the necessary consensus'. Isn't that what you say, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u96	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u97	Do you know what the Constitution says about it? First of all, the Constitution doesn't want 4/5. Do you know what the constitutional legislator says? Unanimity wishes. The consensus wishes for a major reason. He wants a 100% consensus. So, what does that mean? That we will constantly increase the members in order to achieve this consensus? The meaning of the 80 % consensus is for the political forces to agree on integers, to persons expressing the whole, to persons of wide and wide consensus. That is the debate you must demand, the broad consensus on persons. I wonder, Madam President, whether this consensus is being built, when the government, on an issue which, from our constitutional interpretation, seems to want, our constitutional legislature and our legal order, a broad consensus, comes and is being legislated by the Minister, not least with regard to the thoughts, objections and proposals of the Opposition. That's how you build it up, Minister? Secondly, is the broad consensus that the legislator wants, when he actually comes to tell us to conclude - good Mr Dendias said - saying: 'E, will we give you two more positions to say 'yes'? Is that the point of the constitutional legislature? Obviously, that's not it. I would therefore say, Madam President, that this legislative intervention, which does just before the Conference of Presidents, does not help the Minister. It's getting worse. He's still arrogant. He's still acting unilaterally. I conclude with the most critical and critical remarks made by the President-in-Office of the Parliament. What's coming and he's telling us? If you do not agree with us and our proposals, you agree with the maintenance of the opaque and intertwined licensing regime on television. That's what you're telling us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u98	Tomorrow, these.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u99	Yeah, that's what you'll tell us tomorrow. We therefore need to reply to you in advance. We ask for a broad debate as much as you want and a wide debate, but the Minister did not make or take into account the comments of the Opposition. Also - be careful - we are, of course, asking for people of prestigious and improper and independent staffing of the PSE, but we are not going to have our consent to the construction of the SYRIZA party state by the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u100	Mr Voridis, you raised an incidental point, on which the President decides - the President here - whether or not he will put it to the vote by lifting the vote. So what's the matter? What's the matter with two words?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u101	Allow me. It's what process it applies. At the time of introduction - this is the incident - of the bill, the procedure whereby the Conference of Presidents decided to discuss the bill is the procedure under Rule 112 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u102	Article 108
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u103	It shall apply Article 112, which shall refer to 108.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u104	That's right. That's the intercept.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u105	I am therefore saying that this procedure is a limited debate. But it only applies to ratification of international conventions. Here is an essential provision of formal law. Will you now apply the normal procedure for this debate?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u106	Oh, no. But I explained it at first. You weren't here, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u107	But you are, Madam President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u108	We therefore have a position here that, if the House agrees to overcome the delay, it will have to open up the debate in full, open up a list of speakers, so that Members speak, that the parliamentary representatives speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u109	No, in all the corresponding procedures, Mr. Voridis...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u110	You are violating the provisions of the Rules of Procedure with which we are voting on provisions of formal law!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u111	Only special speakers, rapporteurs or parliamentary representatives have spoken in all their respective procedures.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u112	Only in sanction, Madam President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u113	We're talking about the conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u114	Come see them here, Mr. Voridis. You have done so on your own government's behalf, so that you know how you have made the corresponding amendments to matters regardless of the sanctions of the agreements.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u115	Madam President, I would also like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u116	Mr. Georgioda, we have time. You won't have a problem. I shall now give the floor to Mr Pappas to put him on board.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u117	Mr. Friday to speak, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u118	I would just like to raise one point, Madam President, on the extradition contract. Unless you judge that Mr. Pappas must finish the matter and I should like to take the floor afterwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u119	All right, say what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u120	For just two minutes, I would like to say that I think we should not talk about 'bazaar', but about facilitating consensus, as far as possible having an expanded composition in terms of the national broadcasting board. The enlarged composition is this, which enables not only dignity and excellence but also politics to express itself before the choice of the composition of the PSE. I have nothing else to add to the amendment. Therefore, we can move on to the issue of the extradition contract. The extradition contract was signed in 1999 between our country and Canada, without the necessary consideration and without the necessary time to deal with adequate translation problems. This means that there was a need for this translation process too. The speed was due to the Greek Foreign Minister's journey back then in Canada. The Convention was therefore signed without answering the translation issues of the three languages and the problems were resolved and the necessary changes were made in time after the signing of the Convention. However, the Convention was finally ratified by the Greek Parliament in 2002 with L. 3008, without any translation interventions. Then we reacted both countries and only in 2012 Canada notified our country that there are translation problems, which create substantial difficulties in the implementation of the Convention. He invited us to see them together and we saw them in a teleconference. The translation interventions were agreed, and then Canada, first, ratified the convention and then today, we come to ratify the amended text on our side. The fact is that, before the signing of the amended text, the Edition Convention is the old one, that of 1910, which had been signed between our country and Great Britain, Ireland and those of the British Seas. So, I think it was obvious that there was no possibility of extending the old regime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u121	Following Mr Voridis' position on the incident, that it should be discussed in another procedure, that is to say, a list of speakers, etc., because I consider that it has already spent an hour and a half on the subject of the debate, that most representatives of the parties have been put, that arguments are repeated and that are at the same time the same, I think I can put the matter to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u122	Madam President, it has not been heard...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u123	Mr. Georgiod, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u124	As a whole, Madam President, I have not been put to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u125	Here, you have the floor for three minutes. Are you going to place for the bypass or total?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u126	Can I have the floor, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u127	Yes, Mr. Georgioda.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u128	Madam President, as the committee has mentioned, the New Democracy has no objections. However, I am also obliged to say two things about the amendment and on the substance of the amendment. The explanatory statement to the amendment mentions, as a reason for the increase in the PSE members' powers, which it is intended to have on the basis of n. 4339. That is the official justification for the amendment. However, it has been heard here - and I think we all understand - that the essential purpose is to enable me to express - transactions and agreements to reach an agreement on the composition of the PSE. He admitted it as a party spokesman for the minor opposition. Madam President, when the government formally says that it is difficult to reach an agreement for seven members, imagine how difficult it is to find an agreement for nine members. So in its own right, what the government is bringing today is contradictory in relation to arguments, that is, we are unable to find seven members, but we will be able to find nine. Why are we going to be able to find nine members? Because with the nine members we can also give other parties the opportunity to appoint one of them. The consensus required by the Constitution is not quantitative, it is not numerical, it is qualitative and I will agree with the representative of the river. Madam President, consensus is reached with the proposal of the people, candidates and candidates to fulfil these positions, with their prestige, with the guarantees offered by their personality and their science. So I think that by coming here today and saying that increasing members from seven to nine is what will enable a consensus to be made fun of both ourselves and the Greek people. If the government wants something to say directly, say it. Otherwise, let us not seek consensus with surprises and such meths. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u129	First of all, I should like to inform the House that seventeen New Democracy Members have tabled a request for a roll-call vote, which means they consider that the debate on the amendment is essential and legitimate and raise a question of roll-call voting to measure how many we will vote in favour or against. In any case, I think, if it is true what has been made public on the Internet today, that the problem of the New Democracy is for the Minister to resign from his powers under the law that was passed in order to make the debate possible... [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is a move that is inconsistent with the unimportantness of the regulation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u130	Why are you making a substantial position? We were over that! He was in the previous presidency.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u131	Madam President, I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u132	Mr. Georganta, I'm going to give the Minister the floor to say it, I'm just...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u133	You are not President of SYRIZA, you are President of Parliament. Finally, you must adapt to your duties!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u134	I'm not president or I want to be.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u135	But that's not your job!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u136	What I mean to say is that because there has already been a polarization, while arguments are too weak, Mr. Georgantas has already said...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u137	I'm sorry, will you judge that? Are you going to judge the rapporteur's position?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u138	Seven or nine have no difference.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u139	Do you have the right to comment?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u140	Anyway, don't complain. You're... I will give the floor to the Minister to put him on this request, but also to the whole of what we have heard and then to decide what we are going to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u141	The Bureau has no opinion on a roll-call vote. The Qualified Opposition is entitled to submit a request for a roll-call vote and you are applying it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u142	The Minister doesn't have an opinion? Yes, Mrs. Bakoyannis, we know that. You won't teach us. I'm commenting, I can comment by the way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u143	You have envied the glory of Life!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u144	I'm not taking any more duties! I'm not replacing or substituting roles! Be patient!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u145	We are in Parliament's Chamber and are obliged to defend our democratic rights!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u146	Now what are you doing, Mr. Javarra and everyone there? You guys aren't even in an amphitheater! I'd tell you what you think you are. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] And this, yelling at, by what Rules of Procedure arise? Mr. Poppa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u147	I hope and hope that this move will not be a pretext of refusing consent to the formation and staffing of the National Broadcasting Council. I hope and hope that we will see it very soon. The speaker was obviously never involved - after the law was passed, of course - in the staffing of the National Broadcasting Council, because it is not the government's responsibility. We know that the Bureau of Parliament has made huge efforts to find consensus. You have given too much time to finish your inner-party procedures. I do not understand, Mr Voridis, why the lack of consensus. Of course, we, too, could speed up. But we didn't do anything like that. You have completed your internal-party process, you have a new leadership that has to show examples of writing and I think that the Conference of Presidents will be able tomorrow to set up the National Broadcasting Council and to proceed with the licensing process, in which I imagine you will be in favour of being a competition. I'm saying again that I hope and wish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u148	We've been through this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u149	I would therefore say that we should not use procedural arguments and invoke Parliament's Rules of Procedure when the substance is elsewhere. Of course, the Rules of Procedure must be observed. But let me tell you that in ratification of an act of legislative content relating to GATT there were three amendments, on 16-10-2014.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u150	It's not the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u151	Creation of a donation contract at the Hospital of St. Anargiri, five amendments, on 5-8-2014.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u152	It's not the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u153	Motion for a resolution (Doc. A 2-13/88) by Mr Ephremidis, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u154	It's not the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u155	This is not an international convention.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u156	All right, all right. Whoever doesn't want to ferment, ten days sifting, I say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u157	Please, ladies and gentlemen, be quiet and patient.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u158	I think that a debate is now under way. I call on you to consider whether this amendment facilitates the consensus to which you, too, are sworn or prevented. It is clear that it makes it easier, because more proposals can be heard. I think he also puts the level with an argument that says "you take mine, I put yours and find it somewhere in the middle". That's not an argument. Evidently they hear opinions from all the wings. Of course I think there's a good will to end up. This is where we'll all be judged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u159	A request for a roll-call vote on the amendment has been submitted by colleagues in the New Democracy. The debate on the principle, articles, amendment and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights is adjourned: "Following the corrective amendments to the Convention on the Version between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Canada by exchanging financial communications". So do you accept here that we will be adjourning the sitting on Tuesday, January 19, at 13.00, in order to hold the roll-call vote and conclude the vote on the draft law and the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u160	Madam President, may I? In order to facilitate the countryside, would it be wiser to have the sitting on six or seven in the afternoon?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u161	Since there is nothing else on the agenda, I take the initiative and tell you that tomorrow at 6 p.m. we shall be voting for the roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u162	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u163	Mr. Paradise has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u164	Madam President, I would just like to say that the title should now be read as follows: 'Preparation of corrigendum amendments to the Convention between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Canada by exchanging financial communications and other provisions'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u165	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty-seven students and students and five teachers from the 1st Polychni of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u166	We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS The first question will be discussed under number 380/12-1-2016 of the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skouriakou to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks concerning the extension of the rental of a property of the Municipality of Saronicos to the company "VODAFONE S.A.". Mr. Darkness, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, this question was made in writing during the previous period, on 23-06-2015, and it was not possible to answer it because of the elections. We're reintroducing it as time-consuming. It is related to the extension of the property rental of the Municipality of Saronicos to the company "VODAFONE". On 18 March 2015, he met the Saronic City Council. The sixth theme on the agenda of the municipal council was to deal with a decision to extend the private contract to the mobile telephony company 'VODAFONE'. The Saronic municipal council, without taking into account the strong reactions of the people in the region of olive grove, where the antenna has been placed, decided, according to the Economic Committee's recommendation, to extend the agreed lease for nine years and, indeed, to reduce the monthly rent paid by 20%. On the basis of the above, you ask, firstly, whether the legislation on the locations and conditions of installation for antennas located near settlements is complied with and, secondly, whether there is a report by the national electromagnetic field observatory on the effects of electromagnetic radiation on the inhabitants of the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u168	Mr Spirtzi, you have the floor for a first answer for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Madam President. As far as the press is concerned, dear Pano, we are sending you the answers of the relevant bodies. In particular, according to the EMCDDA, there is a licence and informs in its document of the website that all authorisations for the manufacture of antennas, the particulars, the certificates of completeness and the modification of licences, where each citizen may have access. I will also present to you the documents of the municipality of Saronicos and the Independent Atomic Energy Authority, which has already taken measurements - if I remember correctly - twice, it appears in its document, and after our nuisance it will be again. I put all this to the Minutes, so that the citizens of the wider region will also be informed. [[At this point, the Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks Mr Christos Spirtzis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That's all about the guy. Now as far as the substance is concerned. An radiation price observatory is already in place, which we support and will further develop its operation and institutional framework. The aim is for everyone to know - services and citizens - the exact levels of emission and radiation and the measurements. The second is the institutional framework that we have, namely the current law, which applies horizontally to all regions lower limits - that is the truth - from European prices. In particular, a 70% emission limit is foreseen. In fact, there are even lower emission limits, when close to the antennas there are sensitive installations, that is, it goes to 60%. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Madam President, I shall conclude because I will not have to speak again. Nevertheless, our view is that these levels cannot be applied across the country horizontally. In other words, they cannot be the same within urban areas, peri-urban areas or areas where we have no activities like the ones we have in our cities. To implement this policy, there is unfortunately no easy way. Therefore, the corneal systems should be thickened. We want to do this by institutionalising not from the market but from the law, the co-institution of the kernel systems of the various companies. They must concentrate but have much less radiation to have much smaller emission limits, especially in urban areas. As far as rural areas are concerned, we do not care that much. Finally, the permits of the antenna systems will come back as the responsibility of the Ministry. Unfortunately, the ETUC in this area has not succeeded. Thousands of licences are pending and will be included, not as a formal competence but as essential, so that the antennas are not illegal or that there are no illegal antennas, where they have been made, through a transparent electronic system, which is provided for all the licenses, which are also provided for the buildings and for the other activities that exist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u170	Here, Mr. Darkness, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you for your answer, but I must insist and make it clear that it is a residential area. There are houses and schools. It is high, so that it has an opening not only to Saronida but to Anabyssos on the one hand and to Lagonissi on the other. In our opinion, therefore, there is a direct risk and that is why we should perhaps adapt the license and all the care we need to take into account. I would like to point out that despite the fact that the World Health Organisation has proposed acceptable public exposure limits to electromagnetic radiation and the Council of the European Union has adopted Recommendation 1999/519/EC on the basis of the International Commission for the Protection of Non-Ionian Radiation Protection, there is now a great disparity in terms of the limits of acceptable exposure, with the result that several countries and major cities have adopted much stricter limits than the proposed ones. In fact, in its special report in 2003, emphasising the precautionary principle, the Citizens' Ombudsman spoke in detail about the problems arising from the high permitted limits of electromagnetic radiation emitted and the issues of the legal placement and operation of these antennas. Despite the effort made with Mr. L. 3431/2006 on the regulation of these issues, the expected results have not been taken into account since the views of the Citizens' Counselor and the scientific community have not been taken into account. I think that this is also the issue we are discussing. So we really expect you to see the subject again and harmonize the data on current needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u172	We will discuss the third with number 363/11-1-2016 a top-level question by the MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the intentions of the Ministry to review the imposition of excise duty on wine. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Tyrephones Alexiadis. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, in the first phase you have two minutes to place yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the special levy on wine is seducing the wine sector. We supported this almost all the civil powers, including the Members of the Chamber of Deputies, when you had carried out the relevant arrangements. This is what people in the wine sector call with all their strength. This tax is unfair, anti-developmental and further inappropriate. Therefore, it will not even perform its role as a new collector of the Ministry of Finance. On the contrary, it will dismantle a very important productive sector, a very important sector and, indeed, an emerging sector. And that will have negative economic consequences in the end. We ask you to do the self-evident thing, take this provision back or, if this is not possible for reasons which have to do with the agreement with the partners, suspend for a year the application of this law. In one year you will be able to rethink the measure as such, in substance, but also to review how it is implemented. This tax is inappropriate. This seems to be because small wine-growing enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises with less than a hundred tons - but not just those with a hundred tons but more - cannot, even if they want to, create a tax warehouse because they need investment. It's not just a formal matter. It's not accounting. Guarantees are needed by the banks. There's not all of this. As far as businesses are concerned, which are less than a hundred tonnes and are being given - they are supposed - the right not to have, you are obliging them to pay the tax in advance. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need some time from my dentistry, Madam President. Alas, if a small and medium-sized enterprise had to pay tax beforehand, it had all these conditions. In fact, he wouldn't have to trade all the time. He wouldn't have to produce. I will give you an example: eighty tons of stock from previous years - which means they have to pay a tax - and forty tons of current production. In a hundred and twenty tons he has to pay twenty-two euros immediately and then make any transaction, even if it concerns export. What does that mean? That means trade is frozen. But the transactions are already frozen. They told it at meetings with the Minister for Rural Development. I don't know if they had a meeting with you. We therefore ask you, if not the withdrawal of the measure, the philosophy of which we do not agree - if you insist, is yours - to suspend it for at least a year so that it can be properly reviewed or implemented.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u174	Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Kegeroglu, I wonder whether we should reiterate in Parliament arguments which have been put forward when the relevant provision has been discussed, and I still wonder whether the attempt to distort reality has been made. First of all, with regard to your request to withdraw the measure, I have to ask you this: to withdraw and replace with what? I think with the parliamentary experience, which you have with the political past, you know very well that we cannot add and remove taxes without being integrated into a comprehensive plan. If we went to that logic, we would have done away with the unfair and anti-developmentist HISPIA, for which you are accusing us or a number of other tax provisions. But until something has been found to replace a tax, this tax must be imposed. So as to withdraw the tax or suspend it for a year, I would like to see the political responsibility, which characterizes you, to tell me what to replace it. Unless we throw various proposals into the air without basing them on economic logic or on a logic of equivalent measures. Because you know very well how and why we made this decision. As far as 'inapplicable' is concerned, we have discussed and discussed constantly and we have a meeting again tomorrow, which happened with wine growers on these issues. Of course we're talking. The Ministry of Finance holds a lasting dialogue. But there are other things that this House is voting on, and we need to apply them more is dialogue to deal with and solve problems. With regard to everything you say - which is quite correct - the tax warehouse, for the advance payment of the tax, I would remind you that these are not provisions which were voted on by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, these are provisions that existed beforehand. When a special levy is imposed on a product, this comes into a special procedure. The directive is specific. We cannot say that for the alpha product, which enters a special tax, we follow this directive and for the beta we follow the other one. So things are specific and we cannot deviate from them. We therefore expect you to put forward your proposals at some point, so that we can see through them what has to be done. Because lasting criticism does not promote the political life of the country. We also want proposals to move things forward and take things further. I use no more than my time to get you more time and answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u176	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Madam President, for giving me the floor. In the noble method of the Minister - of course, I can justify it because it is not a parliament - it comes and asks the Members, while the parliamentary procedure and the parliamentary control, as I have told you before, is to ask you and you to answer. If you haven't understood it, it's okay, but at least don't come in a second time - because you get used to all the questions I've asked - to make a trade union speech of the wood type - you know very well to take him out, I recognize that - and do not answer these questions. Look, you need to think about how you unblock the wine freeze. You need to think about how small and medium-sized wine-growing enterprises will not be dissolved, and they cannot make a tax warehouse, but they also have no funds, to pay you the tax on a product they will sell if the product is well developed. I'm telling you this because I was asked a question by the winemakers and I put a question. He tells me: "If one of the five tanks suck up or if winemaking is not good enough, I will have paid the tax and I will not be able to sell it. Then what's going on?’ I say to him: 'Did you ask the customs office?' He said to me: 'We asked in writing and he cannot answer us.' I am now telling you a partial question to see that the measure cannot be applied in the way it has been legislated. That's for granted. Let me tell you that, in order to make a tumor of a tank, the tank must be empty. To be empty, the product must be removed from the inside, water enters to volume. Water is measured, according to the law, tanks, even fuels, if you don't know. So we must have a cut in production so that all the things provided for by the law can be done, even if you want to apply it. That is why I have told you, that you have re-examined it and that you might consider it again, to postpone the application of this excise duty on wine, the introduction of which has brought these obligations. You have told us that they exist in the regulation if there is a excise duty on wine. But for the first time, you brought him to Greece! So you have also brought these obligations, which indeed exist where there is a special wine tax. Of course! But what did you tell us now? That the wine tax had been legislated before? If that's possible! So here we are talking seriously and being consistent with both our role and our demands. Because, as you quite rightly said, they have constant contacts. Why do they have the constant contacts? They want to waste time? Problems have come to you too to be resolved by the Minister for Rural Development, and obviously, if necessary, they will also go to the Services. People have problems. So we need to see how we can best combine the resolution of these problems with some of your own initiatives. We proposed to you. We want this proposal to be examined if you can. If you can't, again, friends, we're opposition, you government. I'll recheck after a while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u178	Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u179	Mr Kegeroglu, you will not forgive me, as far as I understand I am, that I have become a Minister without being a MP and every time you emphasise that. Of course, I'm not asking you to forgive me for that. Besides, I believe that the ministers are judged by the outcome of their work and not by whether they were parliamentarians. So we should talk about it sometime. With regard to your reference to the trade union speech, however, it is impressive where this criticism comes from, because I think that the place you come from, PASOK, has honoured and raised competent trade union officials, some of whom are also in your parliamentary group. But, in any case, that is now a matter for you. As far as the substance of your question is concerned, we have responded before it is even tabled. We also replied to the reason why the tax was imposed. In fact, we have said too many times, and in written questions here too, that we have a political responsibility and cannot come up inexpensively and abolish taxes, to do cheap populism, when the country is in front of great parliamentary, national and European conditions, which impose specific things. We have said too many times - and thank you for giving me the opportunity to repeat this - that we are not happy about the tax policy that we are pursuing. But we have to do it. What you are avoiding to say - and that is something that really impresses - is that you start political criticism on one point. You say 'the government has imposed the levy on wine'. Did you forget that you, among other things, voted for two hundred and twenty-eight Members to impose VAT 23% on in-house education in July 2015? Do you forget that you voted together with two other two hundred twenty Members to impose VAT on private schools? That tax came in, so we don't have VAT on school and school. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] Of course, I understand that you think that the tax has been wrongly taxed and the VAT has to be left. We have taken political responsibility, found equivalents and said that between two bad ones we choose the smallest. So, we did not put VAT on schools and in schools for certain reasons and entered this tax. We are not happy with this tax policy. However, as we have clearly said - and fortunately the figures confirm that we will do so - if, in 2016, the tax evasion targets are overtaken and the country's economic issues can give this opportunity, we will rethink the VAT rates and where young people have been extended, in order to benefit the citizens. We have no reason to keep unfair and anti-development taxes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u180	Minister, you're going to have to put a perfect one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u181	I'll put a perfect one, Mr. President. But there's no time, and I'm confused. As far as excise duty is concerned, the procedures are specific and were not voted on by the government, but they existed before. We are obliged to implement them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u182	We move to the fifth under number 371/11-1-2016 a top-level question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance concerning the validation of a fine of EUR 50 million from the company "VODAFONE". Mr. Kammenos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u183	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, according to revelations made since 2006 in the period 2004-2005 many public figures, including the then Prime Minister of Greece, Mr. Constantine Karamanlis, have fallen victim to phone intercepts, revealing one of the biggest scandals of all time, I would say - this is my personal comment - in the country. As revealed, through special software installed at "VODAFONE" in the period 2004-2005 around a hundred phones were being watched, the talks were transferred to 14 - 16 "carried phones - shadows". Since the two-year judicial investigation, which did not produce results, the case was filed in August 2008. With new data emerged later, in 2010, the case came back out of the file. At this point, I would like to remind you that the case of the intercepts is also linked, unfortunately, to the death of the official of "VODAFONE" Kostas Tsalidis. Initially, AIA, the supervising agency, imposed a fine of 76m euros on "VODAFONE" for violating communications confidentiality legislation, as it did not take all the necessary measures to ensure confidentiality of conversations. However, in 2010 the fine was cancelled as a result of meetings of the ADI, which, according to the legislation at the time, were illegal. Following an amendment to the legislation, the Council of State finally recognised the fine at EUR 50.6 million, which caused a reaction from "VODAFONE", asking for a new cancellation of the fine. I conclude by saying that a new decision came, Decision 4309/2015, by the Council of State, which ratified the final fine and annulled the objection of 'VODAFONE' to EUR 50 million. You ask yourself, Minister, when is the public expected to receive the fine imposed on the company? Has his recovery been initiated? That is the main question. We are at a difficult time, and the Greek people and Parliament must know whether our Government has done everything in order to collect these 50.6 million euros, which is also the final and irrevocable fine after the decision of the Council of State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u184	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u185	Mr Kammene, as you said in your timely question by developing it, the issue of the Ministry of Finance is in the first question, the other two questions concern the relevant ministries. Nevertheless, I shall submit to the Minister for Infrastructure's minutes on this matter, as well as a letter from the OSCE and a letter from the General Secretariat, so that you can have a better information on these issues. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Trif Alexiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] With regard to, now, the substance of your question about the recovery of the fine, any payment warrant, any cash list coming from any Service or Authority, the recovery proceedings are established and initiated. The same is true of this particular case. There is tax confidentiality, for which we cannot provide information, but this fine is based on a public document, such as a court ruling, so there is no tax secret. And we can clearly say from the information we have from the relevant agency that the fine has been collected and the law has been imposed in this case. As far as the Ministry of Finance is concerned, there are no loose ends here. Your question raises a lot of interesting and interesting issues concerning other ministries. As far as the Ministry of Finance is concerned, however, the Ministry of Finance was able to collect this fine and there is no debt for this certificate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u186	Mr. Cammene, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u187	Thank you very much, Minister. I would say as a citizen, if I were not in the House, that I am surprised how a government managed to collect EUR 50 million. I think it is the news of the day - beyond what we lived for the PSE two hours - that we managed to collect a fine of EUR 50 million from a company which clearly and clearly violated the Greek law. He's in favor of the government. And I wish to hope that it is a fine guide - and I will mention it for the Minutes of this House - which have been imposed or agreements, such as the 'SIEMENS compromise', that we check at some point - and I will bring it under control - whether it is being implemented, as has been signed. As we said with Mr Spirtzi, the dear Minister, when the time comes to prosecute the 'VOLKSWAGEN', for fraud for Greek citizens in relation to the counterfeiting of software in Volkswagen cars, when fines are imposed then, I am sure they will be collected. Thank you very much for the good news.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u188	Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u189	Just one comment, Mr President. Be sure, too, Mr Papoutsis, and the rest of the Members that for the Ministry of Finance the provision of Article 4 of the Constitution, 'without discrimination', is very clear. There's no distinction between anyone. Tax justice works independently, we check at all levels, we charge amounts, we press as much as we can, because we have a responsibility towards the citizens to implement the budget and to relieve patients as much as we can from an unfair and difficult tax.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u190	Where'd the money go to, what account?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u191	They are attested to the attestation body.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u192	The ADAP?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u193	I would like to make a statement to this House. A parliamentary representative of the River Parliamentary Group is appointed as the Member of the Attica Mr Mavrotas. The second under number 387/12-1-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the Athens Parliamentary Committee of New Democracy Mrs.Akaterini Papakostas - Ironropoulou to the Minister of Finance, concerning the implementation of the decision 2194/2014 of the Board of Directors. for the restoration of the remuneration of military officials, the Minister will not be called into question due to the absence of the Foreign Minister. Also, the first under number 381/12-1-2016 topical question of the Second Athens Congress of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Charulas (Haras) Kafantaris to the Minister for Environment and Energy on the Environmental Sensitisation Park of "ANITOS TRITIS" will not be discussed, due to the impediment of the Minister. Also, the fourth question under number 385/12-1-2016, the second question of the Greek Communist Party MP, Sakis Bardalis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the problems of workers in the "EUROMEDICA" Group, will not be discussed, due to the impediment of the Minister. The second question will be discussed under number 388/12-1-2016 of the New Republic MP Arta Georgios Stylios to the Minister of Finance regarding the increase of the excise duty on fuel (VAT) in fuel oil in 2016. Here, Mr. Style, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u194	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, with my timely question, I come to statements you made at the beginning of December 2015. In your recent statements, therefore, increases in fuel tax are in the government's view in order to reduce traffic charges. Obviously, the logic of the tax is the incorporation of gasoline and other fuels, so that anyone who makes greater use of his car is charged more. However, since traffic charges for 2016 have already been paid - in most cases, indeed increased - there can be no increase in fuel tax in 2016. In addition, the international price reduction of crude oil has swept down the sales prices of fuel in our country - as is apparent from a table I will table on the Minutes of this House - in which case an increase in consumption is expected. For example, today we are discussing, on January 18, 2016, the price of crude oil is $28 per barrel and has broken a record of falling. It is therefore reasonable to conclude that the incorporation of traffic charges into diesel and other fuels is an alibi for a further increase in taxation. Given the above, Mr Minister, can you ask: will there be an increase in excise duty on diesel in 2016? Do you promise there will be no increase in heating oil? Because there has been a levelling-up of excise duty on diesel and heating oil. Does the purpose of this increase, in the end, to be used as equivalent, with adverse effects on the country's overall economy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u195	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u196	Mr Papoutsis, we have an opportunity to clarify an issue on which a lot of ink has been spilled and a lot of television and radio time has been lost, so that people can be misinformed. Fortunately, however, the data and Parliament today enables us to properly inform the citizens. The answer to both questions is: 'No'. We are not planning, that is, in 2016, to increase excise duty, because traffic charges for 2016 have been collected, nor do we intend to use the tax increase, to find some equivalent or something. It is a very clear answer, therefore, that we are not planning to do that. After all, what we have said has been very clear from the outset. In a question - and fortunately there is the video - about what is planned for traffic charges in the future, we said that we are considering too many alternative scenarios, one of which is what is being done in other European countries, one way or another, namely the reduction of traffic charges and the incorporation of one part - not all, of one part - as an increase in fuel, with the simple reason that the one who makes many kilometres, will pay more traffic charges than the current unfair regime. Because in taxation you have things to compare. You take off a tax, or you put another tax, and you have to go on the basis of tax justice. Traffic charges today are an unfair tax. Cars of which at the moment are worth two and three thousand euros, pay a thousand euros traffic charges. It's unfair. We also have injustices in polytecture issues and in a number of other issues, which have been said here. With that logic, we are considering changes in the traffic charges, for 2017, 2018 and the following years. For 2016 we do not plan this, we do not plan any new tax burdens. And to avoid any concern, to say that the tax interventions we are planning for 2016 are the ones that are clearly described in L.4336 of August 2015. There is no possibility of imposing any new tax, because it is a specific framework within which we move. And the financial data we have had since 2015 on tax issues show us that we have gone much better than 2014, that we have caught the budget targets, so we have no reason to add extra taxation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u197	Mr. Style, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u198	Thank you. I shall make a few comments on what the Minister has said. Minister, I understand that this is an open matter. I understand that your aim is to increase the State's revenues in an environment that has been very burdensome in tax when our country has been in the worst economic crisis for over six years. So it's not a question of justice. There is a question of increasing revenue. I extend my thinking: I believe that you are trying to take advantage of the occasional reduction in the international price of fuel and oil so that this increase can be incorporated. You talked, if I remember, for two, three minutes a litre, but the estimates are that it will be ten, twelve, fifteen. I would also like to point out and point out, Minister, that your statements could be kept up and say that you are preparing a study, that you are preparing a way of calculating the revenue that will be generated by the transfer of part of the excise duty on consumption. I would also like to point out to you that the shift in consumption will result in increased production costs. This, as you can see, will mean a burden on the country's economy when we want to work, increase production to make more revenue. Finally, I would like to make another comment on tax evasion. You have not mentioned the smuggling of fuel at all. You know that at 90% with 95% of the country's offices the input-output system has been installed. According to a study published recently, tax evasion on fuel is estimated at EUR 125 to EUR 130 million. The answer from the Ministry is that the input-output data from the General Secretariat of Information Systems cannot be used because there is no appropriate staff. Instead, the government chose to hire cleaners, manage the Ministry of Justice and not make moves of economists or voluntary mobility to serve this service. In conclusion, I would like to say that your position was timeless and pointless and you tried to fill the gap that appeared in the recent results of state revenue evolution. For example, I can tell you that we are behind the State's revenues in relation to the target for 2015 by 2.5 billion and that we are down by 450 million in relation to the revenues of 2014. So you ask, Minister, whether there will be care for the Greek citizens, for the productive economy, for the professionals, for the farmers, for all the charges, which will ultimately be charged by that, and whether you will be counting on a possible study. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u199	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u200	Mr Papoutsis, the trial of intent or the exchange of complaints is a legitimate one, but I think it does not add to the political speech and, above all, to the information of the citizens. You have the right to make any criticisms to the government, but there are specific elements in the 'TAXIS', the General Secretariat of Public Revenue. Is it true or not that in the comparison of the 2014 success story with 2015, hundreds of thousands of five hundred seventy eight cars were provided in 2015? You can see that. Is it true or not that compared to 2014 the public was able to significantly reduce cheap cars and put tax burden on other cars and we managed to collect an additional EUR 8,283,000? I understand that this is something that is outside your ideological principles, but that's what the Constitution says in Article 4. Is it true or not that in relation to the 2014 success story, eight thousand hundred and thirty-three fewer signs were deposited in 2015? The number for 2014 was sixty - four thousand two hundred thirty - six, and for 2015 it is a hundred fifty - six thousand - three. So the comparison of the facts - because of the intentions you are complaining about - is very clear. Let us have a debate on both the data and the 2015 report. For what you want, we can have a conversation. Attention, however, to the numbers you compare, because I mentioned only a comparison of up to 31-12-2015. We will be collecting both January and February which will be calculated for 2015 and the figures will be much more positive. In this respect, however, when the time comes and we talk with specific elements, you will be able to see exactly what has happened. In your general criticism of taxes now, we have a specific view. We have the opinion, which I have mentioned fifty times - and I will say it again - that is to say to implement what is laid down in Article 4 of the Constitution. Taxes are not small or large for us. For us taxes are fair or unfair. And we want fair taxes. If you are accusing us of overtaxing, I would remind you of what your political body has done in previous years. From about 600 million real estate tax, at the time of the memoranda came to a certificate of 3.3 billion. That's how it is. Apart from the collection of 2.65. Are you accusing us of overtaxing? I could give a lot of evidence. You also said about the smuggling of fuel. I will inform the House, at my request, of the smuggling of fuel. We're going a lot better than the previous years. We move on to too many checks, too many crossings. In 2016 we are equipped with legislative, institutional, staff and technology facilities for much more controls. Of course there is a smuggling of fuel, but we are dealing with it. What you must judge us for is whether we are better or worse than yours, because we are also coming to the political question you said before. What you want is to come back to a time when cleaners, teachers, people from hospitals will be fired. That's what you're trying to do. I get it. You said that about the cleaners. We've got it. You want another time when we're going back to your tax age. We have a different political view. We manage without sacking cleaners, teachers or people from hospitals. We can do it because we are fighting it and we have results.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u201	The fourth question under number 384/12-1-2016 will be discussed in the fourth quarter of the Greek Communist Party MP Lesvos, Stavros Tassos, in response to the Minister of Health, about dealing with the problems in the surgery of the General Hospital of Samos. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Paul Paulakis. Mr. Tassos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, with the risk of closure, the surgery of the General Hospital of Samos is threatened because of the serious problems they face with the central sterilisation of the hospital due to the damage to furnaces. The hospital is no longer able to sterilise tools and materials for performing emergency and regular surgery and minor interventions. The sterilisation of the tools and materials temporarily made by the military hospital is no longer possible, as the furnace has damaged. Since the furnace is the only one in the county, there is a direct security problem for all residents. The central sterilization furnace has been operating since 1989 and supports all sections of the hospital, clinical, external medical and units. Its function is now dangerous and there is no safety for the workers handling it. There is still a second emergency furnace installed in 1991, but neither does it function properly and safely. The hospital's technical service has submitted a report to the administration and to all hospital staff on the state and risk of furnaces a year and a half ago. However, the administration bears responsibility because it has not taken care to replace ovens in good time and to restore other problems, because the inability to sterilisation is not the only problem of surgery. There are significant damages to building infrastructures such as roofing water influx, damaged pseudo ceilings and floors that prevent safe use of the space and pose a high risk to public health. The responsibilities of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government are great because it continues to apply faithfully the policy of subsistence, subsistence and merchandise of the health of previous governments, on the one hand opening up business action on the other hand by creating a particularly dangerous situation for the health of the people. So we ask you, Minister, what measures will you take to replace sterilisation furnaces immediately and to restore the damage to the operating area to ensure that they are safe and safe and that the health of workers and patients is not compromised?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u203	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u204	Mr. Tassos, thank you for the question. The real sequence of events, as played, is the following: on 21-12-2015 the one furnace, the old, sterilization of the hospital, was dismantled. This was done on 21 December. The hospital was served, after consultation of the Management and Medical Director, from the military furnace to the repair. On 6-1-2016, the Army furnace was shut down. On 7-1-2016 the hospital furnace was temporarily repaired. On 12-1-2016, the spare furnace was repaired by a specialized technician. In case of emergency, the main furnace can be used temporarily. Throughout this period there was reserve and sterile materials and tools for emergency surgery and there was no life risk for patients. Now, let's go to an oldest history of what has happened, which shows both the maliciousness and the poorness of all this bureaucratic thing that previous governments have made forty years. In June 2014, the furnace was considered inappropriate following a technical report. We're talking about the main furnace in the hospital. An emergency grant of 80,000 euros was requested and approved by the Second Ministry for the supply of the kiln. And the bureaucratic labyrinth begins! The hospital's request for the invitation to tender to date has not been met by the EPH - the Committee on Health Procurement - despite the fact that all the actions requested have been taken. Watch me. Because in the last few days, we have been dealing with the issue very closely, the situation is this: all the money that is in existence has been deposited - the issue has been updated these days from the Second Health Region to the EPA - has been approved by the EPA and by the EMCDDA, the technical specifications and the competition will be opened within the next few days. The point is that this Committee on Health Procurement, the previous ones from us, practically, put it to the foreshadow. That's the reality. A cover for transparency, which does nothing at all. That's the story. Because these were adopted now and the competition for the new furnace will be opened. There is credit to the Second Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is responsible for the area, and there will be a competition. In the next few days it will be proclaimed. When you do two years to adopt technical specifications, then there's something rotten in this kingdom. The same is true of a number of other competitions, in other and larger materials and larger facilities, etc. However, there was no question of risk of patient life. The alternative furnace has been repaired and I think the problem is now temporarily resolved. The new will also be bought, because we have dealt with both the days of the celebrations and now to proceed with this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, too. Mr. Tassos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u206	Thank you. Minister, first of all, from the two years to which you refer, one was in power. Secondly, the'sapo' that exists is not just in the procedures for the notices. Sapio is the system, which, unfortunately, you are serving. Capitalism has now rotted, it has reached sixty - two people across the earth having as much wealth as three and a half billion, half of the world's population. In the context of this public and free health system with permanent and stable work for workers in health cannot be guaranteed. It can't be guaranteed! The aim is for health to be privatised and traded. Why? Because it is an appropriate field of capital speculation. The capital is now looking to find ways to invest with high profit its ponds. Health and education are areas suitable for it, because the other can't avoid them. When you're sick, you'll be sold out to get well. When you want your child to learn letters, you'll be sold out to send it to learn letters. And, of course, the rule applies: "Do you have any money? You're gonna be okay. Don't you have any money? You're gonna die. Do you have any money? You'll learn letters. Don't you have any money? You're out." That is the problem, Minister. The problem is, if you don't conflict with logic, if you don't fight the logic, solutions of this system's philosophical system can't exist. There is a problem with subscribing and subscribing not only this but also all hospitals. What are you doing now? Promote the octamenites. CEDEFOP has approved. The Samos Hospital - like Lesvos - with the wave of refugees, which is now in existence, has problems of subscribing and subscribing. And instead of getting permanent staff, with a permanent and stable employment relationship, they go to the octamenites. Which doctor will go to work for eight months, not knowing if his contract will be renewed, to go get home, stay, etc. And with hunger wages? Well, that's the problem, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u207	Here, Mr. Polakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u208	Mr Tassos, one year from the two of us were in the government, but now we are starting to take it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u209	Oh, okay! You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u210	Just like I'm telling you. These days, the head of the Ministry of Health has taken up a great attack on various issues. And one of the reasons for many is the story of the removal of management councils from the hospital. I'll give you a concrete example of Samos, Mr. Tassos. Do you know that Samos Hospital had a cash supply of EUR 11.5 million and did not pay? It had EUR 11.5 million in cash - it currently has EUR 5.5 million in cash - and it did not pay suppliers, it did not pay drugs. This decision is not taken by the Minister, the board of directors of the hospital, who didn't take it. These procedures, which proceeded within ten days, proceeded with the hospital's temporary commander, who is the head of the Medical Service. Couldn't he go after some other things earlier? But he didn't. So it is a question of who has the real power and who has the government, but we have set ourselves to take the real power and take it. Be careful, in this life, in those years and not in a future existence. You raised a few issues. Capitalism does not fall by invoking the inability to solve social problems. Capitalism falls or is overthrown or changes and comes another hope for societies and for people, when you create certain social correlations and really social fronts and when you have a line to overthrow the situation today and not after two and a half thousand years and "After years, it will be ours again".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u211	Minister, these aren't...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u212	I have not interrupted you, Mr. Tassos. From that point on, it is clear - and at least the health workers recognize this and the doctors - that for the first time after six, seven years, permanent posts are being declared - and many permanent posts - that for the first time after six, seven years, on-calls have been paid in time, at least in the overwhelming majority, apart from two points, which have been managed in a specific way, which will be resolved within the next few days. Also, for the first time after many years there is an increase in the amount provided by the state budget and a clear commitment from the EEAS to support public health structures. And 2016 will be a better year for health, Mr. Tassos, and you can be sure of that. On the other issue you have raised, on the positions, because Mr Kegeroglu has put a corresponding question, I will respond with that in relation to what we are proposing. The posts, which were proclaimed in Samos, Chios, Mytilini, etc. from the EKRD, it is from funding from the refugee, which these EUR 3 million is the first real funding we have received to meet the health needs of the refugee current. Of course, we will use any measure and means to be able to alleviate situations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u213	May I say a few words, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u214	The meeting must end, Mr Tassos, before capitalism falls, unfortunately!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u215	Yeah, but capitalism isn't falling on wages and hunger pensions!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u216	Colleagues, the fifth under number 362/11-1-2016 topical question from the New Democracy MP, Mr. Vassiliou Jogakas, on the parametering of the increase in the prices of electricity from the professional farmers - photovoltaic power stations owners, will not be discussed due to the Member's impediment. Also, we will not discuss the sixth question under number 349/5-1-2016. Second question from the People's League MP - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Papapas to the Minister of Health, on "the financing of Muslims in the recruitment of health personnel of the Ministry of Health". The second question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health will be debated immediately. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we had the opportunity at the meeting of the Subcommittee on Island and Mountain Areas to know about some of the designs, which concern the EKPB, and about the issues relating to the technology equipment, because the supply, which has been very troubled by all the procedures and you are now ready to hand over the ambulances, to see the other issues that are raised by the workers, the institutions, which have to do with the regulation, what is to do with extending the operation of the IEKEB, to see the financial issues relating to off-site payments, uniforms, pensions and pensions. All of your issues have been raised on several occasions, and I do not know what programming - we would like to know today - you are thinking of bringing them, whether to legislate, if necessary, or to resolve them by decision of the Ministry. But in particular, I want you to tell us about the allocation of staff from the latest recruitments how much is envisaged for Crete and what Services. It's 2015 and 2016...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u218	Are you talking about EKT or a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u219	For the EKRD, because, as you said in reply to the previous question, 15 000 recruitments were planned in 2015, but because of the bureaucratic procedures, which are projected, it was not possible to cover them. At least, in 2016, we hope that for the healthcare area we will have a very large number of these recruitments. Let us see, then, what is envisaged for Crete and how many subsidiary you intend to hire. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like some time from my dentistry. This is also about hospitals and it has to do with the EMCDDA, because, as you know, if the problems in the regional hospitals are not dealt with at the respective clinics, then we have overloaded the EMCDDA with transport to other hospitals, so it is important that we have staff distributions at hospitals. How many of the recruited will be available to Crete? I don't know if the money's just from the refugee. What do you intend to do with the new EKAV stations for the service of the inland Crete? Is the characterisation of heavy and unhealthy, since in the next few days will pension-insurance be discussed, so as to provide for rescuers? These are matters which had been put to a written question, which is why many questions have been asked, but it is being discussed today as unanswered. Mr President, only two questions are raised in the Rules of Procedure when they are up-to-date, but this is what is being discussed today as an unanswered one, which is why it has multiple questions. I'm waiting for the answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u220	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, fifty students and students and three educational sessions from the General Story of Thesprotia. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Polakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Kegeroglu, there's really a lot of questions. I shall begin with what concerns, first of all, the EKAV and, more generally, Crete. With regard to the general demands put forward by the workers, the bill on speeding up the government's work was intended - and provided for by its reintroduction in a very short time in the next few days - to resolve a number of issues that were raised to us by the workers. The first is that we exclude the reduction of out-of-court travel, the remuneration for this activity normally returns. We're reinstated to pay the uniform. It is already provided for in the budget, which has also been passed on to the EAW budget. It is intended to continue the insurance of personnel by air means and also provides for the reintroduction - after many years - of the special allowance for flight, not only for doctors, but also for rescuers, who are in the airplanes, helicopters and aircraft, who go along with pilots and doctors to make the aerospaces. These are four issues that have been raised to us and which we see in the bill. You would have seen it when it was said that it was anticipated. Also, on the basis of the demands made to us by the employees, but also by the administration of the EAW, which also makes provision for increasing the staff of the EAW next year, we have greatly increased the pay for the overtime of EAW staff for 2016 from EUR 10.300,000 to EUR 11.800,000, to cover the real needs that exist, but also the above staff, which we count on two hundred eighty-seven people a year. There has also been a serious increase, on the basis of the demands and the association of the doctors of the EKAB, from EUR 2,200 000 to EUR 2,550,000, in order to be able to meet the needs as a whole and throughout Greece. Economics have been provided for in the budget and have been voted on. The institutions will go through the bill, which comes in the next few days. Now, as far as the staff and especially for Crete are concerned, I said two hundred and eighty-seven people why? The eighty-seven are the ones that are currently for publication in the FEK. And here again, we have another story. We were approved by the General Accounting Office of the State on 21 December that there is a provision in the budget and in 2015 to appoint these people, because an issue has been created. I myself said that in the first - second week, people would be appointed. Take care, then, of what happened. Because I said, we have the government, but we take it, we don't have it yet. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This is important, Mr President, and there are a lot of issues raised by Mr Kegeroglu. On the 21st of the month came from the General Accounting Office of the State, the approval that, for 2015, the eighty-seven people had been inherited. From there, we didn't go after it, why did he want it? A formal procedure, which was to go to the Financial Control Service to put a seal on it as well and then build the EAW's decision to go to the EAW. Unfortunately, the department responsible for health, with the clear responsibility of the director at the time, this decision of the General Accountancy, do you know when he sent it to the HR? The 7th of January. Not on December 22nd. So the previous decision did not apply and we did, of course, in thirty-six hours' time again. Again the procedure, because this is a conscious sabotage, I cannot say otherwise, new approval from the General Accounting Office, new approval from the Financial Control Agency, registration in the EAW pay registers, and now it's for publication. This is like an apology to the workers we said from 1 January we would appoint them, but that is what happened, that is the reality. Secondly, the proclamation, which exists and will come out of February, provides for a hundred EKP rescuers. In these hundred rescuers they will also be predicted for areas that had not been set aside for the eighty - seven. Because for the hundreds of eighty-seven the distribution, we found it more old and did not want to change it, because there were indeed needs for what was announced and why, of course, they would say that "to make redistributions, and these were earlier proposals". Specifically, these eighty-seven will go: a hundred nine in the field of EKAV Athens, eight in the EKAV of Thessaloniki, twelve in the EKAV of Patras, four in the EKAV of Ioannina, one in the EKAV of Lamia, one in the EKAV of Alexandroupolis, four in the EKAB of Tripolis and forty-four in the EKAV of Mytilini that catches all the islands, Lesvos, Samos, Chios, Rhodes, Karpathos, Kos, Syros, Paros, Naxos, Thera, Mykonos, Tinos, Andros, Io. It's obvious that in the hundreds that will come out of February, there'll be coverage of areas that weren't covered by this...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u222	You have a second language, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u223	To stop here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u224	Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u225	Let the Minister say it single.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u226	Single and dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u227	To complete the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u228	No, okay, you take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u229	I should like to take the floor before finishing the answer, Mr President, but we also expect an answer to the other questions, which are many, as we have said, and it would be good if you could give him the time to answer them at first reading and to complete the answer. What we are saying is that it really needs a lot of work so that a decision made by the Minister - whoever is - can be implemented. The eighty-seventh decision had been made, apparently, someone previous, I don't know if it was Mr. Kurublis or anyone else, but he had taken it and until he arrived in January 2016. I don't know when these people will be made available.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u230	He's in the FEK.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u231	Therefore, all other recruitment forecasts need too much work to be completed. I for the first part, the institutions and everything that concerns the workers as a whole, expect the Minister's bill and decisions, in line with both the workers' demands and what we have put in the question. And of course, once the procedure has been completed, I should just like to say that there are huge gaps in Crete, both in both parts and in the EKAV, but also in hospitals. In part, the amendment that has been made to the subsidiary amendments has not created any more problem, without meaning that it solves the issue itself. You should go on recruiting the assistants, who to some extent will solve the problem and then, of course, with the permanent recruitment, once we have a relative freedom - because I believe you will not have an unlimited number - in relation to the previous years to proceed with recruitment procedures. To complete the information and we will be here to wait for the implementation of what the Minister tells us today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u232	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u233	So let me continue the briefing I've stopped in the middle. Let me also inform the House and the world that we are being watched, that the nine hundred and eighty-five seats, except for doctors, were completed in the notice that came out in late October, early November. Already, the provisional results for the first two hundred were issued and the next week the adoption of the provisional results for the others was completed. What you said is true. If you don't chase it from behind, step the step, with all this process that's been built for thirty-five years now, it's always delayed. Already, we have been in contact with the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction and Mr. Vernardakis, to give us the distribution act, to proceed and begin appointments based on the provisional results. Secondly, there is an allocation that we have sent to the health regions and there has been the answer from everyone for all the thousands of seven hundred other hospital staff, a hundred for the EAW and six hundred doctors per sanitary region. For Crete this means eighty-five people nursing staff, fifty other staff, fifty five doctors. This is for permanent posts since February. Since the proclamation we have now received and in which the results come out, the distribution that was in existence, which is being completed and we will begin to appoint in the next few days, is. Twenty-seven other staff seats for Heraklion, seven posts for Rethymnon, ten seats for Chania Hospital and sixteen posts for Lassithi Hospital. These are the places available from this notice for the four hospitals there. Also, you should know that in 2016 we will continue what we did for auxiliary doctors in the last quarter - four months of 2015. We appointed six hundred seventeen supplementary doctors, Mr. Kegeroglu, all over Greece. Of them, the four hundred seventy finally took over. The rest of us did not go to their place, in which we appointed them. They refused. There is a very large increase in the budget for subsidiary doctors, both for hospitals and - and this is important - for the WICs. All the requests we believe will be submitted to us, we will be able to cover them, because we have provided EUR 60 million for subsidiary hospital staff - doctors and other staff - and EUR 27 million for the staff of the ICM, which means health centres and ETA units that we want to develop. Finally, there is an allocation in the CEDEFOP notice - there is now the act of the Ministerial Council on the ICU, which concerns all Greece and ICU in Crete - and there are four hundred nursing staff and a hundred doctors in order to be able for two years to wait for the new appointments - the ones I have announced before and the ones that will come after the new distribution for 2016 - to open a hundred and twenty beds. There are requests from the hospitals in Crete, which are covered by the distribution. I should like to say a word about the statement from the funding of the refugee, namely the three million euros, which these days run forty-five people. There is even quite a lot of demand. They are fifty rescuers, eighty - eighty - nursing and other staff and about thirty - five doctors. This notice, therefore, did not provide a position for Crete. It concerns the islands of the eastern Aegean which accept the refugee stream. I think there has been a very great deal of work lately in the Ministry of Health and in relation to the increase in funding and in relation to the movement of these procedures, which are bureaucratic, they are time-consuming, they are an incredible grid. However, I believe that we will gradually be able to change the whole of the organization. I mean one last thing. You know that about the ambulances. We unblocked the ninety contest. For the other ninety-six there will be a new competition for these regions. Currently ninety ambulances are six for the Ionian Islands, twenty-five for Crete, two for the northern Aegean, eight for the southern Aegean, eleven for the Epirus, fourteen for western Macedonia, fourteen for eastern Macedonia and Thrace and ten for the Peloponnese. For the other health regions, where unfortunately there is also Attica, which has a big deal, there will be a new competition. The transfer of funds to the next ESDP has been ensured, we will accelerate these procedures, and we will do our utmost not to get into this thing that happened the previous period, where the competition was going and where the competition came, because some people did not find the side-effects they expected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u234	Thank you. I am announcing that the seventh question under number 356/8-1-2016, on the ratification of the Protocol to the Framework Convention of the World Health Organisation (WTO). for the control of tobacco, it shall not be discussed after consultation of the honourable Member with the relevant Minister. And finally, the first with number 745/38/2-11-2015 question and application for the filing of documents by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, New Democracy, Nikita Kaklamani, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the stay of Mr. Kim Glenn as Prime Minister, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u235	Mr President, can I say a word in addition?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u236	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u237	Minister, I bring to your attention that in December of '14 a notice came out of the Ministry of Labour concerning protected groups, but it is mostly about hospitals. They were about nine hundred places for various specialties, half of which are in hospitals. So that's under n. 2643 which is for protected groups, i.e. threeteen, multitudes, families with children with disabilities. And, from this notice, some five hundred auxiliary and nursing staff are provided for hospitals. So put on your watch and this contest in order to get the results.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u238	We'll put it on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u239	Already a year has passed and the first temporary paintings have come out yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u240	Haven't they come out yet?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u241	They're still the first temporary paintings. But push harder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u242	Thank you. Also, the third with number 374/11-1-2016 topical question by the MP Argolida of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Maniotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity regarding the implementation of provision of the n. 4162/2013 on the establishment of the Generation Solidarity Fund (National Social Solidarity Account “ELKAG”), is not discussed due to an impediment of the Minister. The eighth question will be discussed under number 355/7-1-2016, the second time question from MP I Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Health, on the activation of an internal control unit of the Ministry of Health and the criteria for the selection of managers and hospital administrators by the evaluation committee. Mr Saridis has the floor
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u243	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, according to the n. 3492/2006 in Article 12 with a Presidential Decree issued on a proposal from the Ministry of Home Affairs, Public Administration and Decentralisation, Economy and Finance, internal control units are recommended in all ministries and regions of the country for the sole purpose of safeguarding their financial interests. The relevant Presidential Decree has not been issued for those bodies supervised by the Ministry of Health, with the result that the institutional framework which exists is inactive and cannot be exploited. In fact, in the budgetary rapporteur's report, the chapter on combating fraud and corruption provides for strengthening the role of the Ministries' internal audit units. In addition, Decision 85701/10-11-2015 established a Committee for the Evaluation of Hospital Managers, Governors and Deputy Governors, consisting of members of the selection criteria which are unspecified and which includes, in our view, a member who does not have a relationship with the Ministry of Health. The Minister therefore asks: why has no presidential decree been issued to date specifically for the bodies supervised by the Ministry of Health? What is the point in the government's draft budget report about strengthening the role of the ministries' internal control units when these units have not even been created? What are the criteria for selecting members of the board of Governors and Deputy Governors in hospitals? And what is the precise content of the interview with the Governors and the Deputy Governors?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u244	The Minister for Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos, has the floor for his answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u245	Thank you, Mr President. My dear colleague, you raise an issue concerning the control mechanisms that have been envisaged and indeed are underscore. This arrangement for internal control units was indeed the one you referred to in 2006. There was then a subsequent law in 2012, v. A joint ministerial decision is not required to be adopted by a Presidential Decree, but merely by a joint ministerial decision. There was the establishment of these offices in the Ministries and in our Ministry in 2014 the establishment of this internal audit management was incorporated into the Agency. And what is, in fact, pending is that there should be corresponding internal control units in the Ministry's supervised bodies, i.e. hospitals or other public bodies supervised by the Ministry of Health. To have control mechanisms is necessary today, when we even have a period of lack of control and self-management mechanisms for the state and of public money. So I think that's a necessity. But I think that the crucial issue is to find these institutional safety valves which will enable the central administration and the ministries to function properly, but also the other services, to enable them in real time to control services, to control the provocative demand for services, to check the correct prescribing of, for example, on the part of our own, correct referral documents, to check, in a few words, scientific and good medical practice that there is a proper distribution and use of the few resources available today by the public health system. I think that, therefore, is obviously an unresolved issue. There is a recent initiative by the Secretariat-General for Combating Corruption and the relevant Deputy Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, who have asked all the ministries to know how the implementation of these commitments is progressing and to interconnect these internal control services with this ministry, which will also have general coordination. I therefore believe that they will move in that direction. Of course, we must be aware that hospitals, dear fellow Members, unfortunately at this stage are having difficulty in having administrative staff, in order to carry out critical functions of hospitals, such as inscribing payments to beneficiaries, suppliers of hospitals, supporting sections relating to support services for hospitals, so that we are obliged to contribute to private hospitals - and I mean feeding, cleaning, hospital storage, maintenance of electromechanical installations, etc. The second part of your question, which is inconsistent with the first one in my opinion, is of particular importance and, Mr President, allow me to give a full answer to my colleague, because it is an issue on which we are rightly sensitive to public opinion today. In other words, there is a debate today in the public debate on how the governments in question choose to govern the state. We are pleased when this debate takes place, firstly, because we have no jobs in the way a client-state and party-state has been working for some forty years, but also because we believe that this state must really change with institutional changes and a very serious bill is already being prepared by the Minister responsible, Mr Vernardakis, for changing the model in the administration of the state and of the public services, which, in our view, will give another signal of how public administration really needs to be organised in our country. To stop being under the suffocating party control and to strengthen transparency and dignity. We, my dear colleague, have for the first time kept the previous commanders of hospitals for eleven months after the change of government. Usually, within a very short period of time, previous governments were going through a universal replacement of all commanders, without any mechanism for assessing or assessing their term of office. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] So we kept these people for 11 months. There was a double-assessment process, firstly, at the level of health care, where, on the basis of the contracts signed, there was mobilisation and recording of their performance, there were recommendations from the health regions to the Ministry, and then, of course, the evaluation committee, which is provided for by the law - we did not recommend it, it was from Law 4052/2012 - which...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u246	Minister, you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u247	The committee is composed of the law, which I say again that we have not legislated by five members. One is the Ministry's Secretary-General. Two members have an institutional status, namely the President of the Central Board of Health and a Vice-President of the AACC. There is also a university, professor of HEIs, or professor of the National School of Public Health or the Open University, who is related to the administration and finance of health services, and there is - and this is provided for by the law - a private sector representative, a senior private sector official, who is not related to health services. That's the law. With this composition, therefore, the committee was formed, it made the final evaluation after an oral interview, without any provision being made. We have put it precisely in order to enhance the transparency and worthwhile functioning of this committee. Note that in committee...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u248	Put a perfect one, Minister, you have a secondary one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u249	Yeah, okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u250	Mr. Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u251	Mr Minister, you will allow me to say - I want to believe that you have very good intentions - that, as things have come, I do not know what to say. The government's poverty in money is sad, the truth is that. I can't say anything about it. In any case, however, it does not change what our fellow citizens, who need the National Health System, are experiencing every day in hospitals. I'm watching, the truth is, the way you handle things at the Ministry. Minister, on 5 November with the 863 question to your Ministry for the exploitation of findings of internal health inspectors, I personally did not receive an answer. I'll testify to her in the Minutes. The question was raised on 5 November. On November 18, he left your ministry with an extremely urgent document, where you are requesting information on the internal control of your institutions. On 18 November this year. I'm going to put this in the Minutes too. I have a document from findings, internal hospital auditor reports for 2014, according to the orders you have given. And I'll testify to that in the Minutes. The control mechanisms are not working, and you admit it too. The administrative mechanisms are also inactive. We are all aware of this, as the process of selecting new administrations and governors and alternate governors is under way. Let me make it clear that there have been a lot of issues since many decades ago, as you have said, but without that being an excuse, because you are already a year in the government. So there are too many gaps and shortcomings with unforeseen and tragic results that we see in the evening news. Are you, then, pleased by the way in which the checks are carried out in the operation of our hospitals? Can you tell the citizens to sleep quiet and that our hospitals are working? Can you assure citizens that workers in hospitals will be able to do without administration, without materials, without drugs, without time? It is extremely difficult, Minister, you know. And those who are beyond themselves - and you will allow me here to become a little more specific - and work under these conditions and produce results and inspire workers, such as the commander of ELPIS, Mr. Yannaros, what are you doing to them? Do you extinguish them by formal procedures? Rate by 1 and I've got the score here, which I'll testify to in the Minutes - a man who mobilized the family? [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Allow me a moment more, please, Mr President. He's a man the patients talk about, but also the channels with the best words. With all due respect, the decision to dismiss this man was not correct. Is that how you realize the exploitation of human resources? So you'll bring back the Greek minds to come and work? I conclude, Minister, by saying this: I have here in my hands the committee, which is essentially set up to assess the governors and the deputy commanders of hospitals, as well as I have a paper to the Minister and Deputy Minister for Health from the Ministry of Health, where he informs you that there are no measurable targets, so that you can proceed with the evaluation process of governors and that the targets given since December 2014-February 2015 were general. So there was no framework on which you could assess the governors. How did you create this? And I'm putting this in the Minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u252	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u253	Since the time has passed, I would like to say that the health system is really at a very limit point and those who give the great battle to stand up and continue to provide hospitals and health centres with reliable services in the world that they need are primarily workers, doctors, nurses, the rest of the staff, to whom the state must be grateful, to recognise their trouble, to respect their struggle and to try to be as fully in line with its obligations towards them as possible. Hospital administrations obviously also play a crucial role, especially in a period of crisis, subsistence and underfunding of public care. From their choices, from their priorities, the performance and upgrading of services to the world is largely determined by their hierarchies. This year was indeed a transitional year for the health system in the department and there were problems because of this. We, my dear colleague, have explained to you that we have followed a process that has never happened before. There may be mistakes in the final judgments. But as far as the removal of officials is concerned, we have fully respected the negative crisis in this committee. In other words, in cases where we have been in a negative position, we have then moved on to the removal of these governors. Obviously, the people who sent them had their own criteria. One of them, the professor at the Open University of Niacas, is one of three - four experts in the country in the field of health services administration. The Secretary General of the Ministry is a man from the Ministry's service mechanism, he is not a political official of the SYRIZA, he has a huge experience in hospital management, he has been the same commander of the Psychiatric Hospital for many years, he has participated in respective committees and, in my opinion, has the competence and critical capacity to assess the term of office of people. And the questions that have been asked were very specific. They concerned the targeting of the commander in relation to the hospital, the way in which he manages his finances, the development vision he had for that institution, the achievement of objectives, measurable indicators, qualitative indicators, the service of the insured, the overall picture of the functioning of the hospital. There may have been mistaken estimates, because obviously from a CV and a 15-minute interview, you can't always judge a man perfectly right. However, I am telling you that this has been done without being required. We will be judged, my dear colleague, not by the way in which we managed the choices of the previous governments. We will be judged by our own choices, that is to say, by the political leadership, on the basis of the suggestions that this committee will bring us to the notice that expires tomorrow, 19 of the month. From these options we will be judged, there we will give our own political signal on how we understand the administration of hospitals, on the credibility and adequacy of the people we choose, and we will also be judged ourselves, and the choices we make and their performance in the health system will be judged. So I think in relation to yesterday one can talk. This is a case that has been closed. I think it is reasonable for a government to take into account, beyond technocratic adequacy and other criteria for the choice of people who manage such a critical service. We, my dear colleague, have kept 14% of the commanders and deputy commanders. I inform you that this has not happened before, when there has been a political change in the country. We kept them, even though they were chosen by the previous governments, precisely because we were convinced that they had both the adequacy and availability to contribute to an effort that we are making to give priority to public care. Previously, the Deputy Minister gave very specific examples of the attempt to strengthen the human resources system at the moment, to try to strengthen the funding of public hospitals, supervised bodies such as the EAW, etc. Of course, we know very well that everyday life and reality are bad and we know that all these interventions that we have launched have not yet significantly improved function in the health system today in our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u255	We believe, however, - and I conclude, Mr President - that we will achieve precisely by combining these interventions and, of course, by an administration which is going to emerge in the next two months, I appreciate, with administrations, which will embrace the vision of public health and not a perception of business for the operation of the hospital, not a concept of private - financial management for the operation of the hospital, where the welfare of numbers is of interest and not the quality of the services, and not the service and the provision of social needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u256	Put a perfect one, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u257	This type of administration we want and we believe that we will proceed and in 2016 will be a better year for public care and our country's citizens, who have been afflicted over the past five years, can look forward to improved services.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u258	Thank you very much. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-18-S1-commons.u259	With the consent of the House at 20.45 minutes the sitting is closed for Tuesday, January 19, 2016, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work, according to the agenda distributed.
