ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 2-8-2016, the PRACs' minutes of the PRACs at its meeting, Tuesday 2 August 2016, concerning the vote on the whole draft law: ‘Public contracts for works, supplies and services (Adaptation to Directives 2014/24/EU and 2014/25/EU)’]] We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION (a) Discussion and vote, in accordance with Rule 76 of the Constitution and Rule 118 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, on the proposal by the President of the Parliament: 'To amend the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament - Part II' (FEC 51A;/104-1997)'; (b) Debate and vote on the motion for a resolution by the President of Parliament: 'To amend its provisions from 15 to 11/82 (Official Journal of the European Communities 137/A' 1982); and (c) Approval of the 'Commission's Rules of Procedure' of Article 3A of the Treaty. Regulation (EC) No 3213/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 October 2003 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the Community institutions and bodies and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data, and amending Regulations (EC) No 3213/2003 and (EC) No 3213/2003 If you have no objection to present the proposed provisions almost unanimously by the members of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure during yesterday's debate and by Mrs Christodoulopoulos the logic of the Commission's Rules of Procedure on 'whereabouts', so that then, if she wishes, a Member for two, three minutes can speak. Otherwise, if there is a presumption of 4/5, there could be no debate before the vote. But let's start this way. Mr Syrigo, you have the floor for three or four minutes, to put us on the subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, you will allow me to speak from my point of view, because it is an issue which, as you have said quite rightly, has almost gone through unanimously, with the exception of one reservation. As a result, and once this consensus and unanimity are in place, we simply need to make some points on the subject, which we shall be discussing. So we start from the first proposal you have made on the subject of Members' scientific collaborators. With the proposed amendment from 15-11-1982 of Parliament's plenary decision, Members' scientific associates are also subject to the wage provisions of Chapter II of Law No.4354, by adjusting their basic salary to the new wages of civil servants. That is what the explanatory statement says and it is only an article, which refers to these issues. It concerns, as we have said, scientific associates and I can say that it is a small change in the better. Let's go to the rest. The preamble to the President's proposal to amend provisions of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure expressly states that "with the proposed amendment it is clarified for reasons of legal certainty that matters of transitional effect and application of individual provisions of the decision of the Greek Parliament of 28-6-2016". This is the last decision we made. The framework is foreseeable. In other words, it is this plenary decision and there are some clarifications, I would say, interventions on a number of issues. One is to extend the validity of Article 7. This has to do with the service councils, which must come out, which also requires elections to the members of the administrative boards of the elected representatives. Therefore, and because there is a time-consuming procedure to set up these, it is proposed to extend the validity of Article 7. It is an intervention to Rule 35, which we voted on. The second issue was debated in committee. It is a confirmation that we would say, even over-the-counter, of the order that we have voted on and of the co-workers and the forty posted officials of the House at Parliament's offices, particularly former Presidents of Parliament, former Prime Ministers and former Presidents of Parliament's groups. It is noted that it remains in force. We have said that this is surplus. This article shall apply. No one doubts that the article is valid. Therefore, it simply needed a repetition and confirmation of the issue for legal certainty. Finally, there was a phrase that should have come in concerning some officials of the Parliament and Article 43 of the full-scale decision, which is an amendment to Rule 152 of the former Rules of Procedure of the House as it stands. It is therefore proposed, because there was an inadvertent omission at that time, to add the phrase 'unfinished time' for the following reason: there was a risk that this provision, which had been voted on and passed by all, would become lex imperfecta, i.e. incomplete from one point to the next, because this phrase, which is decisive, is 'undetermined time'. These are the one, two and three articles of the President's proposals. Next, we refer to Article 4 which lays down the provisions of this amendment. These are, ladies and gentlemen, the proposed amendments from the President's side on the Rules of Procedure of the House and the others that we have pointed out, namely the 28-6-2016 plenary decision. As I said at the outset, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities adopted almost unanimously. Therefore, we reiterate our position there, that we are positive about these proposals. I stop here because the debates on laws and regulations are of course very serious because they concern Parliament's Rules of Procedure, as well as issues relating to its functioning. However, many times tours within the laws and regulations are somewhat dull, for at least the rest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Syrigos. Mrs Christodoulou, you have the floor on the unanimous proposal from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, everyone and everyone. As you know, with the latest changes and amendments made to the law on 'whereabouts', it was established that the Audit Committee would have an internal rules of procedure. On 28 July, then, when we met at the first meeting of the committee, we drafted and adopted an internal regulation which, in accordance with the relevant Rule, stipulates that it should be adopted by Parliament. So we're presenting him to you today. I'll say a few words, 'cause there's no such thing as a great originality. The provisions shall be divided into three parts. The first part is the provisions that we replicate exactly the law and it has to do with its composition. So we put the new composition, which is now wide and defines who are made up of the alternates, what is its work and its mission. So we put these articles on. The second part of the provisions are provisions which we copy ad hoc the Code of Administrative Procedure, in particular the provisions relating to the operation, quorum and decisions, so that we can be in line with the general legal climate. The third part is provisions which we have decided on the basis of our experience as members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection that they are necessary for the effectiveness of the committee. I think that most of these provisions are actually well known and some of them are necessary to enable the committee to function, without degenerating or becoming an area of competition. We have all agreed that absolute confidentiality and secrecy will be respected in all cases that are coming to committee. We also agreed that we would neither serve the immunity of political persons nor serve on a daily basis political purposes nor do we do a witch hunt on the basis of suggestions made either by the press or for other reasons. Therefore, I am at your disposal for any provisions which appear to you either original or some need explanations. I believe that we will work together, because this is a very important committee. In fact, there was a great deal of struggle in the negotiations, because creditors wanted in this law to include specific provisions on the functioning and composition of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Christodoulou. Ladies and gentlemen, because at 10 a.m. there is the legislative procedure itself today, I would ask if there is no mood or need for a colleague to speak directly to the vote. But before that, if anyone wants to, they can take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u7	I have asked for the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u8	All right, Mr. Tragakis. To make a limited list and move on. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. I will not confine myself to issues, to which we agree or shall, in any case, be expressed by our vote, because it is of no importance. In other words, for example, on the second issue of amending the Rules of Procedure, we will vote against 'by' because we are generally opposed to the logic of the single wage, as is the case in the wider public sector as a whole. I am therefore going to go to the most important issue, in my opinion, of this change in the Rules of Procedure concerning the Commission's rules of procedure for 'possibly'. We, during the debate at the time of the bill, voted against this article because we disagreed with the composition of the committee. These concerns are multiplying today, with the Rules of Procedure, which we have in our hands, the proposal for a regulation on the operation of both this committee and the advisory committee, if the term is allowed. And I say that, because there are issues within which we have a lot of questions to ask, so that I do not use any other expression. As for example, when the committee is in a quorum, where at least two judges must be present. It may not be a party representative, but it must certainly be two judges. Secondly, the decision-making process is dangerous. In other words, it can be decided by three out of nine. Of course, with three out of six present, since the white vote - unprecedented - is seen as 'absent' and that in the successive votes it should be those who are voting against to coincide with one or the other majority. In other words, these are issues which raise a number of questions, Mr President, concerning these wordings that exist within. In our view, we must change them. Likewise, the issue of who can raise a matter on the agenda, which is forbidden on the substance. They must all be present, all nine, in order to raise a matter on the agenda or to ask for it by three of the nine before the meeting begins. So, basically, it turns into a ban. The last issue we want to raise, and in which we are clearly saying that we will not agree in practice, is the question of the other competences of the committee, of the assistant, which is responsible for the view of nominal coupons. You understand very well that the JRC will never enter this process of visas and nominations. In this respect, therefore, we are voting against both Regulations, Mr President, with these serious objections which we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, too. Mr. Tragakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u11	I, Mr President, shall make two general remarks, since I say first of all that as far as the changes to the Rules of Procedure are concerned, as we voted about a month ago, we agree. This is not a substantial change. They're changes of clarification. And I think that one of them could be omitted from Article 2 because since it was the case that it was reintroduced and repeated, I do not know what it can offer. I will, however, stand by two points: my first point is that the Rules of Procedure of the House are a law of increased power. The Rules of Procedure of the House only change the Rules of Procedure. Since many times there are misunderstandings and there are proposals for changes in the Rules of Procedure, this cannot be done. The Rules of Procedure of Parliament only change from plenary and change only as a change in the Rules of Procedure of the House. One issue is that. The second concerns 'outside'. As far as 'outside' was concerned, there was a myth that the MPs were auditors and audited. That was a mistake. I have been the chairman of this committee for several years. The control was not carried out by the MPs. The audit was carried out by sworn auditors, as is now done. This is also provided for in the new law, whose regulation we are voting on today. So the same will be the case. There are some comments, which I shall make to Mrs Christodoulopoulos, concerning anonymous complaints. As we receive, almost every day, anonymous complaints about the "underground" policies, these anonymous complaints must be automatically filed. If there is a lasting complaint, as the Rules of Procedure do, the last complaint to be discussed, but to be discussed in plenary. And when I say 'Following', I believe that the provision that there is a quorum with the five members, but that two judges have to be present, is wrong for our committee. Because the committee has a different purpose. It is not intended to be a judicial review committee. I think that the House has been completely alienated from the whole process, because there is only one representative of a party and there is no representative of other parties. The committee could be more enlarged and they could also be representatives, if not everyone, because there are at least three or four parties, at least. However, I shall refer to something we discussed yesterday at the Conference of Presidents, Mr President, and I would like to make a reference to that. Yesterday at the Conference of Presidents, something has never been done before. We discussed the choice of the coordinator of the Channel of Parliament. So this is something that honors us all, because we had agreed on it during the debate on the Rules of Procedure, but it has been done. There was a person who I think was commonly accepted. He is a well-known journalist, who has also made a parliamentary editor, apart from other posts. However, some comments were made by colleagues, which should really be taken into account, which is why I mention them in the Minutes. First of all, as far as the Canal programme is concerned, I think the word that has been left yesterday from the whole procedure is the 'blue-way' relationship. In other words, there must be a two-way relationship now between the broadcasts of the Parliament's channel and the receivers, i.e. the viewers. That is why a number of proposals have been made, which I consider to be very positive. For example, there should be a daily report of the parliamentarians. Don't be more than five minutes, but be a day. Every day, there was a news bulletin on what is happening in Parliament - the same bill was passed, it went to the committee - so that the viewers could also be received. Secondly, the best relationship has been proposed, which can be created with the European Parliament. The European Parliament, I think, can offer too much and the exchange between the Channel of Parliament and the Channel of the European Parliament can help both channels very much. The third one - Mr Lykoudis, indeed, has made a very nice position - concerns the cultural events of the Parliament's channel. Because the channel of Parliament is showing cultural events, which may not have a large number of television viewings, but have a high quality of viewing and that is of great importance. Why do we not pay much attention to the'mechanisms', despite the fact that Parliament's sittings, as it turns out, Mr President, along with the public television, have arrived - please - have eight hundred thousand televisions - at large sittings, which we have here in Parliament, and which we are also giving to other private channels. The proposal that I made was as far as Parliament's record is concerned. The House has an amazing record. So we have to digitize this file, because there are excerpts and pre-wars, before 1940, which have to be gathered, as this will be a very important parliamentary archive for the place. That is what I wanted to say, Mr President. Of course, we are in favour of change. He had no substantial changes from what we had voted on last time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Tragakis. I would ask that the debate should not be further generalised. It was useful to mention Mr Tragakis and the subject of yesterday's debate. It was also helpful in this respect. Unfortunately, the plenary is alienated from a debate on key issues in which the House has a role to play in dealing with its work and which has never been planned to come to a specific debate, one would say. I tell you on the occasion of the channel, which Mr Tragakis has spoken about, where, of course, a general debate could take place at some point, with a suggestion and on the programme. But there are other issues, let me say, even more seriously. In other words, at noon today, the Conference of Presidents will, as it turns out, close the fourth independent authority, according to the Constitution, in its composition. Only the PSE, which has not been approved, will now be left. For seventeen years now, the independent authorities have never talked in full about how they should be defined or how they should be accounted for each year, i.e. what is done only in the committees of this House, and what has never been assessed, there should be proposals. These are key issues. In addition to the current legislative work, there are sub-committee functions or tasks, which are carried out at another level and from which plenary has never been contacted. I'm telling you so that we can have it in our minds and see how we can heal it. For some issues, perhaps, one or two specific one or two meetings will take place and there will be information and proposals. I would ask that we proceed to the vote, so that the legislative work can then begin. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned in accordance with Rule 76 of the Constitution and Rule 118 of the Rules of Procedure of the House: (b) 'To amend its provisions from 15-11-1982 (Official Journal 137/A'982), Parliament's decision'; and (c) the adoption of the 'Commission Operating Regulation referred to in Article 3A' of Law 3213/2003 - Rules of Procedure of the Special Commission for the Control of Assurance Statements'. Does the House agree: 'To amend the Rules of Procedure of the House - Part II -' (FTE 51 A-104-97)' in the first place?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u13	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u14	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u15	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u16	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u17	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u18	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u19	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u20	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u21	The proposal by the President of Parliament: "To amend provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament - Part II (Government Gazette 51 A-104-1997)" was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the vote on the articles. Does this House accept Rule 1 of the proposal as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u22	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u23	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u24	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u25	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u26	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u27	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u28	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u29	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u30	Article 1 of the proposal was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Can Article 2 of the proposal be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u31	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u32	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u33	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u34	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u35	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u36	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u37	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u38	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u39	Article 2 of the proposal was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Can Article 3 of the proposal be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u40	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u41	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u42	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u43	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u44	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u45	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u46	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u47	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u48	Article 3 of the proposal was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Is the farewell article of the proposal accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u49	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u50	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u51	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u52	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u53	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u54	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u55	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u56	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u57	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the proposal by the President of Parliament: "To amend the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament - Part II (Government Gazette 51 A-104-1997)" was accepted in principle and on articles. Does this House also accept the proposal as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u58	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u59	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u60	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u61	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u62	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u63	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u64	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u65	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u66	The proposal was accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the proposal by the President of Parliament: 'To amend provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament - Part II' (Government Gazette 51 A/10.4.1997)' was accepted in principle, under Articles and by a majority, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u67	Does the House agree to the proposal by the President of Parliament: 'To amend its provisions from 15-11-1982 (Official Gazette 137/A 1982) in principle?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u68	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u69	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u70	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u71	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u72	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u73	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u74	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u75	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u76	The proposal by the President of Parliament: 'To amend its provisions from 15.11.1982 (VAT 137/A 1982)' was approved by a majority of the Parliamentary Assembly'. We are entering the vote on the article alone. Does the House agree that the only article in the proposal is accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u77	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u78	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u79	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u80	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u81	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u82	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u83	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u84	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u85	The only article of the proposal was accepted as a majority. The proposal by the President of Parliament: 'To amend its provisions from 15-11-82 (VAT 137/A 1982)' was accepted in principle and on the article. Does this House also accept the proposal as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u86	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u87	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u88	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u89	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u90	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u91	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u92	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u93	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u94	The proposal was accepted by a majority in the total. The proposal by the President of Parliament: 'In order to amend its provisions from 15-11-82 (VGC 137/A-19832), a majority of Parliament's decision was adopted, in a single debate on the principle, articles and all of them, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u95	We now come to the adoption of the Commission's Rules of Procedure, 'Whereever'. Does the House agree that the Commission's Rules of Procedure under Article 3A of Law 3213/2003 - Rules of Procedure of the Special Office for Public Procedural Statements are adopted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u96	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u97	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u98	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u99	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u100	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u101	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u102	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u103	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u104	Consequently, the ‘Staff Regulations’ of Article 3A of Law 3213/2003-Organisation Regulation of the Special Office for Assurance Statements’ was approved and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes on the vote on the above motions for resolutions by the President of this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u106	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, there is going to be a five-minute break to get everyone notified and to start legislative work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK A sole discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism: ‘Revision and execution of concessions — Harmonisation with Directive 2014/23/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the award of concessions (OJ L 94/1/283-2014) and other provisions’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 28 July 2016 that the draft law should be discussed at a single meeting on the principle of articles and amendments. Before giving the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Tyloridou, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Environment and Energy, Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Economics, Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Deputy Ministers for Environment and Energy, Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, and the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs submitted on 02-08-2016 a draft law: ‘New scheme for support for power plants from Renewable Energy and heat and power stations - Provisions for the legal and operational separation of supply and distribution sectors in the natural gas market and other provisions’. This draft law has been classified by the government as urgent. It shall be referred to the Co-legislative Standing Committees.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u108	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u109	You're welcome, Mr. Metarakis. On the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u110	I would like to make a point about the announcement you made. The fact that the draft law - which has been tabled today - is urgent - will be judged by the committee responsible. However, I would like to make a point. Today we have a bill in plenary, which is the responsibility of the Standing Committee on Production and Trade, and at the same time the Committee on Production and Trade will meet in the Senate. This means that fellow Members who participate in the committee should choose or be in plenary for a bill, which you have again tabled as a matter of urgency, which concerns the Committee on Production and Trade or the Senate. This does not contribute to the parliamentary work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u111	This is an issue which has been discussed in the Conference of Presidents and which has been decided as far as possible not to do so, because you are right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u112	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u113	Here, you have the floor, Mr. Maniatis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u114	Mr President, in this place, we will see everything. I am the rapporteur in plenary for the incorporation of the directive we are discussing. And at 11.00 a.m. the debate in the Committee on Production and Trade on the Renewable Energy Legislation is taking place in an urgent procedure, where it has completely irrelevant provisions, such as - let us say - the Muslim mosque. It's a three hundred-page bill that was filed yesterday at 7 p.m. How are we going to resolve the issue of our simultaneous presence? I think that the SYRIZA - ANEL government has not solved the issue. So let us say how we can solve both these issues. However, I must tell you that, as rapporteur for the Democratic Integration, I will reasonably ask the plenary, from you as President-in-Office, but also from the chairman of the committee responsible, to be able to move so that we can be present with some tolerance at both meetings.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u115	That is indeed a problem. I said that it was discussed at the Conference of Presidents and I believe that, due to August and the closure for a few days of the House, these issues are being raised because of the urgency of the bills. I think we'll deal with this, Mr. Maniatis, in the new period.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u116	Mr President, the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u117	Please, Mr Santorinier, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. From the moment - what you have said - which we know on Friday is a stop to Parliament's work, and since, on the basis of the government's proposal, the bill is urgent, nothing else could be done. We will all be able to find ourselves in the House and in the Committees in agreement. Just get a briefing. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u119	I'm sorry, what did my colleague say now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u120	Almost the same thing I said before.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u121	Listen, Mr. President. It is very important that the honourable Member speaks if I have listened to it well. The majority is speaking now. And the majority has complaints from the work structure. If so, then the majority must take an initiative, at least in these last few days, before the House closes for a few days, to do our job better. Do not constantly invoke the Conference of Presidents. The final instrument is this and this instrument can be judged. Let us say, in order to avoid today's disturbance, if the majority so desires, that the Committee on Production and Trade should go to work this afternoon. If my colleague were to take an initiative, in other words, he would do well to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u122	I have previously brought you the climate that prevailed in the Conference of Presidents, which raised this issue. And I think Mr Santorinios said that it is August's period, the bill is urgent and, at any rate, they all recognise that this should not be done in a normal period, which we will not have, that is, these in some way restrictions, commitments, as you say. That's it. Ladies and gentlemen, I must announce that the parties have nominated Mr. SYRIZA, Mr. Santorinios, Mr. Brutsis, the Golden Dawn by Mr. Sahinides, the Democratic Assent of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Loverdos, the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Karathasopoulos, the Potami Mr. Fotimas, the ANELs Mr. Kokkalis and the Association of Centres. Rapporteurs have been appointed by SYRIZA, Ms.Tiligoridou, from New Democracy Mr.Mitakis. The special speakers are from the Golden Dawn, Mr. Karakostas, from the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr. Manatis, from the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Vardalis, from the Potamis Mr. Amyras, from the ANELs Mr. Lazarides, and from the Association of Centres Mr. Kavalis. As rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mrs Tyridos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, until now there has been a lack of a specific law on the award and execution of concessions, which has allowed a wide range of scope for ratification, which each time was based on different laws. At the same time, the exclusion of concessions from the scope of European directives created insecurity in terms of their legal status, which regulated the procedures for awarding and implementing procedures, and left a wide margin of discretion in the national laws of the Member States. These two problems, from the gap of law at national and European level, come to cover this bill. This new legislation shields the concession contracts legally, solves problems which have arisen in the past and eliminates the case-by-case specialisation of the concessionaire’s terms and procedures. Taking into account the contribution of concessions to the development of strategic infrastructure and services, and to the promotion of innovation, the proposed draft law is expected to be an important tool for the implementation of public investment. For the first time, therefore, the Greek legal order acquires a single legislative framework, which incorporates Union law, the acquis communautaire and at the same time ensures the maximum public interest. At the same time, this law is expected to serve as a catalyst for creating equal opportunities by supporting the national effort to return to economic growth and strengthen employment through the creation of new jobs. In summary, the main objectives of this legislative intervention are to introduce clear and effective arrangements, which ensure maximum transparency and equal treatment, prevent transaction routes, promote genuine and free competition, ensure the best cost and quality relationship and ensure the prevention and repression of corruption in the conclusion and execution of concessions. At the same time, these arrangements shall be provided to the contracting authorities and contracting entities the necessary other than those which are controlled flexibility to determine the conditions governing the award and performance of the concession, depending on the nature and scope of the contract, the way in which it is financed, but also the particular conditions for its implementation. This is achieved as, in addition to the provisions of Directive 2014/23/EU, the draft law incorporates and regulations of national law which introduce additional arrangements to those of the Directive or other matters that are deemed necessary to be safeguarded under the law, always in view of the achievement of its objectives. More specifically, in Part One of the bill, which includes Articles 1 to 28, issues relating to the purpose, scope and scope of the law are dealt with. The detailed description of the concept of the project contributes to the correct application of the rules and is confronted with distortions of the past resulting from the ambiguity of that concept. General principles include the concessionaire's risk-taking criterion, exempted contracts, simplified procurement rules and safeguarding confidentiality. It is clear that state activities, such as national defence, policing and justice, cannot be granted exclusive under the Constitution. Exemptions from concessions under this Law shall also include water supply and sewerage services as goods of general interest. Particular attention is paid to concessions between public sector operators. Such contracts shall not require a competitive procedure and shall be clearly and precisely defined on the basis of the judgments of the Court of Justice of Europe. By applying these conditions, healthy competition is not affected, but at the same time, public bodies are able to cooperate with each other in carrying out projects and services of social importance to the public benefit. In addition, it is clear to target the social mission of specific infrastructure and services, and for the first time social indicators are taken into account. Allows social cooperatives, social cooperatives with limited responsibility, social cooperatives with integration to implement policies that ensure social cohesion and strengthen and protect vulnerable social groups. It makes it compulsory to publish concessions using the National Electronic System of Public Contracts, which ensures speed and transparency. This contributes to the immediate information of interested parties, the publication of notices and the recording of a reliable database. At the same time, arrangements shall be made for the award of mixed contracts, the evaluation of which shall be judged on a case-by-case basis as regards their possible separation or not. If, for example, a contract includes elements which are a project, the current legal status is determined on the basis of the main subject-matter of the contract. In the event of doubt as to whether a contract concerns a project or service, which defines different technical terms and controls, the Technical Council for Public Works of the General Secretariat for Infrastructure of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks is responsible for deciding. In Part 2, from Articles 29 to 46, the rules for the award of concessions, such as the minimum time limits for receipt of tenders for participation, the drawing up of contract documents, the definition of technical specifications, the criteria for awarding the contract, the grounds for exclusion, the criteria for participation, the reasons for rejecting tenders and the manner in which tenders are to be completed and clarification. The regulation and the guarantees to combat corruption are important in this bill. Prevention measures are provided for in order to discourage infringements and conflict-related measures. In the event of unlawful and unfair behaviour, the contracting authority shall be given the possibility to exclude the economic operator from the award procedure. The technical and operational requirements contained in the contractual issues and the standardisation of declarations, the definition of the procedure, the quality assessment elements and the criteria for the ex ante determination are set out. The award procedure for a project concession may not be initiated without the prior completion of the necessary expropriations and the completion of the necessary archaeological investigations. There is a clear simplification of procedures and time-consuming bureaucratic procedures are being handled. It is worth mentioning, for example, that there is only one request for interest to be able to participate in the tender without requiring all necessary supporting documents. The supporting documents required shall be required to produce them after their selection only by the final contractor. In cases of possible ambiguity in the terms of the tender documents, it is also possible to correct for minor errors. At the same time, however, in order to combat corruption and with a reasoned report on damage to the public interest, it may be possible to cancel the award procedure, as well as to exclude from future contracts of economic operators who have been subject to offences for a period determined according to the seriousness of the offence and the timing of its termination. In Part Three, Articles 47 to 55 deal with questions relating to the financing of subcontracting, which supports small and medium-sized enterprises, the possibility of adapting a concession contract, without a new award procedure, where objectively unforeseen circumstances exist. In the fourth part of Articles 56 to 59, arrangements shall be made for the monitoring and submission of reports on the procedure for the registration of the elements of the procedures for the award and execution of concessions in the Central Register of Public Contracts. Provisions on the documentation of the award procedure of concessions shall also be introduced. Apart from describing the object of the project, there is now a clear illustration of the analytical budget for the work required, which was missing in the past and created problems. In the fifth part, Articles 60 to 66 shall include provisions on the legal protection of economic operators at the stage prior to the conclusion and on the resolution of disputes at the stage of its implementation. Finally, in Part Six, Articles 67 to 70, individual issues are regulated, such as the bodies carrying out contracts awarding and performance procedures, as well as transitional and repealing provisions. The objective of this draft law is to develop effective administrative interventions ensuring the provision of high quality projects and services to citizens. This is a bill that sets out uniform rules, which creates equal opportunities, first of all by laying down rules of transparency, healthy competition and, to a large extent, is facing a state-owned business environment that we have often seen in the past. The draft law establishes a legal security framework and ensures to the fullest extent the social and public interest. In conclusion and concisely, simplifying procedures, sound business action, social growth indicators, combating interoperable and corruption, transparency and efficiency are the legislative guarantees of this legislative initiative, which is coming to resolve the gap that has so far existed in the concession contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u124	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u125	Mr President, I would like to make a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u126	Mr Brutsi has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u127	Mr President, in order to make a constructive contribution today to the debate, like yesterday, I would ask the Government, the Ministers, to organise the issue of amendments and parliamentary interventions so that we know in the course of the debate what the government will ultimately accept, so that we can put forward a position accordingly. This is my observation. We need to know it in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u128	In any case, because we have spoken with Mr Metarakis before, if we raise a point of order, we shall follow the Rules of Procedure. Mr Metarakis, rapporteur of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of today's draft law is to harmonise Greek legislation with European Union Directive 2014/23 of 26 February 2014 on the award of concessions, as corrected by EL140/27-5-2016. Today's bill is divided into six parts. The first refers to the subject matter of the draft law, scope and definitions. The second part refers to the general rules for the award of concessions, the general principles governing the rules and the guarantee procedures, describing details of the publicity of notices, the electronic availability of tenders, the fight against corruption, the selection and the qualitative assessment of tenderers in tenders. The third part refers to the rules for the execution of concessions, i.e. the contractual framework and legislation, the preparation of contractual obligations, the financing of works, the possibilities of subcontracting, the possibility of modifying contracts, the solution and the award of contracts and the creation of special-purpose companies. The fourth part refers to the governance rules followed by the Single Independent Public Procurement Authority and the use of the Central Public Procurement Register, documentation of the award procedure and the performance of contracts. The fifth part refers to the legal protection of entities, when awarding contracts, the cooperation of the Greek authorities with the European Commission, the resolution of disputes in the performance of contracts, the extrajudicial and judicial resolution of issues arising. Part Six refers to the bodies for the award of concession contracts, which are repealed by the other transitional provisions and includes specific annexes. As usual, there is also a seventh part, which is the amendments to which I shall refer briefly. Let me note, ladies and gentlemen, that this bill was put into public consultation on 1 March 2016, within the reasonable deadlines, which it was necessary to vote on, within the deadlines set by the European Union. But, at the end of the day, he was tabled to the House a long time later and with great delay, and the House, the committee responsible, had to be forced to accept the urgency procedure while you could have avoided it. And today, we have the peculiar situation - and I mentioned this before - that urgent bills should be discussed in plenary, and the Committee on Production and Trade, while, at the same time, in the Senate, we are discussing an urgent bill, which was tabled last night, again the responsibility of the Committee on Production and Trade. However, we agreed with the urgency procedure because we thought there should be no further delay and an institutional gap extended. However, this does not relieve you of your responsibilities and, ladies and gentlemen, you must finally change speed. So far, you're moving on with a step of noticing. This practice cannot be perpetuated. You need to run, help the Greek economy return to growth, because we will eventually stay in the memorials and cuts. We voted 'NAH' in the first place. We believe that harmonisation with European law helps to deal with chronic pathogens. It is an effective tool in trying to acquire a modern and efficient public administration, attractive to both Greek and foreign investors and to small and medium-sized and large. At the same time, harmonisation with European law contributes to protecting the public interest and general interest. Ladies and gentlemen, two years ago, I did not think I would be in this Chamber as rapporteur for the Opposition to recommend a bill on public-private partnerships. The bill that is being discussed is a very effective tool, but a tool that was the subject of intense ideological differences before the 2015 elections, a subject of intense controversy within and outside the Chamber with SYRIZA MPs. As, of course, Minister, ideological controversy had been made and the privatisations and major projects of the fast track had been privatized. This government and privatizations have done and done three, if I'm not mistaken, so far works on the famous fast track. Fortunately, you understood that PPPs and concessions are an important development tool, beneficial to the public interest, because it carries the operational, executive, operational risk to the concessionaire. We, in the period 2014 at the Ministry of Development, placed particular emphasis on PPP projects. We have incorporated fifteen new projects, a total of 1.8 billion euros. We have re-activated allocations totalling EUR 5.5 billion. In total, twenty-eight PPP projects and concessions totalling nearly EUR 10 billion left a deposit to the next government. Many of these works today have frozen, planted, and are in danger of enduring. However, it is good that you are coming today to incorporate developments in European law into Greek law. Incorrectly, however, it was said by the Minister that in the past there was no legislation on PPPs. You forget, Minister, Law 3389/2005, a revolutionary law from which public-private partnerships began and, to your credit, you are currently maintaining basic provisions of Law 3389. It has been mentioned many times - and we discussed it yesterday, ladies and gentlemen - malfunctions in public procurement, failures in project executions. You said that, too, Mr Spirtzi, and you are right. It has been done many times in the past, no one is questioning it. For example, different materials were used than they needed, the measurements were not accurate, there was delays in the execution of the works, with the responsibility of anyone who finally came in and asked for the Greek public redefinition of his remuneration. These exactly themes are addressed by the institution of concessions and the PPP, where the maintenance, operation, execution, construction costs, the whole risk goes to the concessionaire, who in exchange for the operation in practice of the project, is paid for the investment he has made, either by the Greek State, either by the users of the project or by a combination of both. The concessionaire therefore assumes all responsibility. There was, therefore, appropriate legislation, and legislation is applied and it is good to apply it in the future, in order to reduce the risk of the Greek State from public works. And in this difficult economic environment, the PPP projects, using private capital, operate multiplierly in the Public Investment Program, which is systematically curtailed and now by the activation, which we all fear, the cutter, in the coming months, can be found again in the size of the Ministry of Finance, for which, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the House will not be asked, because Parliament has now granted the right to budgetary policy to presiding decrees, to the Ministry of Finance and therefore to the institutions and to the quartet. It should be pointed out that it is not clear, Mr Ministers, whether the concessions of the Parliament will continue to be ratified, thereby guaranteeing the rights of the Greek State, but also creating legal certainty for the concessionaires resulting from the agreements. It is also necessary to provide for this possibility of granting contracts by law. With regard to the articles, you should first clarify to us in Article 1 whether the implementation of PPP projects in activities such as national defence, police and justice, as well as, for example, is already being implemented by the current leadership of the Ministry of Justice, the work of digitising and recording the practices of the courts, which is linked to the administration of justice. I think, Minister, that we need a legislative improvement. With regard to Rule 33, which we are voting against, we discussed it yesterday with the corresponding Article 66. Remove the obligation to publish notices in the regional and local press, raising doubts as to whether smaller, mainly technical companies can be informed of the projects that are being published. We are also voting against Article 35 because it differs considerably from the corresponding article of the directive, which aims to incorporate, because it does not contain the provision that measures to avoid or correct conflicts of interest must be absolutely necessary. You should also take into account - I am referring to Article 49 - that the availability of funding may be difficult to document in a binding manner before the award of the contract and perhaps it should be specifically provided for in what will result from what is requested by the contracting authority. We are also voting against Article 53 because provision should be made for the possibility of a direct contract between the contracting authority and the lenders to protect the interests of the latter in order to avoid a complaint. With regard to Article 60, you should consider the grounds for annulment of the concession, as without the limitations of Article 62, legal uncertainty arises because, in the event of cancellation, after the start of the concession, creditors will not be able to look forward to payments by the contracting authority, creating a financial deadlock in the project. We are also voting against Article 64 because the possibility that the contracting authority may appeal to the courts, instead of a suitable solution to arbitration, is of the opinion that it will be an important obstacle to attracting investors and ultimately contribute to increasing the cost of the project. So you should also make it clear to what courts are referred to in Article 64. Are you referring to the political or administrative courts? We are voting against Article 65 because the application of the UNCITRAL rules to investment disputes is not appropriate for trade disputes, as is the case here. In short, ladies and gentlemen, in order not to exceed time, four amendments have been incorporated in the debate in the committee. We are voting against Article 71 because it continues to extend the hostage and secondary broadcasting positions to cover the tragic non-existence of the state and legality, with the closure of the EMCDDA over a long period of time and the accumulation of countless requests for radio stations to modify data, permits or new permits. Let me note, however, on the issue of licensing radio stations that, due to the restrictions on remote islands such as Chios, local stations are heard in very limited places, while Turkish stations with very strong antennas are heard everywhere on the island, so too many young people, to listen to music, not to listen to Greek stations, to listen to Turkishs. You need to find a way, Minister, to fix this. In Rule 72 we are voting 'at present' because, once again, the government prefers to resolve the last moment, while other licences have already expired and others have expired on the use of frequencies. In Article 73 we vote 'at present' because the Minister is authorized, when making the information system, to register schools' data, but for this information system no competition has even been opened. We are voting 'yes' on Rule 74. Of course, I would like to say a general remark, which I have mentioned before, ladies and gentlemen, in the plenary session. The amendments put forward by the government, generally touching one of the three pillars, either extend to something that you have not been able to do or create new recruitments to the public or create new structures. This is, as a general rule, the amendments that this government brings to Parliament. And speaking of amendments, the pleasant break that we had finished yesterday, we are going back to the well-known practice of unrelated ministerial amendments. Many of them are coming at the last minute and not even the Members of the Co-Population are able to read them, but they are voting on them. Today we have six ministerial amendments. We would like, Minister, if you can, and after my speech, to tell us whether there will be more, so that at least the parties can also be informed during the meeting, many of whom are in the Senate Hall about the other bill. There are also legislative amendments. We would like you, Minister, to tell us whether some of them are accepted so that Members of the parties can adapt their speeches, taking into account these amendments. Finally, Mr President, your speech was very positive - and I thank you for that - that if any amendment is accepted, which adds an article to the bill, the vote on the whole should be taken tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u130	Thank you very much, Mr Mitarakis. Mr Karakostas, special speaker of the Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr President. As we pointed out yesterday, in the resolution on the harmonisation of the two other directives, harmonisation with Community directives does not automatically mean that the last Marxist state of Europe becomes a European state. The government is also celebrating the fact that the adoption of harmonisation puts an end to the workers' immunity. However, this is a profound hypocrisy, because you are the ones who have raised this immunity, and you have also provided immunity so that the contractors can proceed to immunity. We're going to the articles now. Article 1. We believe that this bill will contribute to our full subordination to EU law. So our national achievements are being lost and the government of our country ceases to have it, but the Europe of bankers and loan sharks is getting it. We question directly and clearly about the maintenance and protection of the public interest, as such moves act positively only for foreigners, whom you call "partners" and we call "tococculators". If we want, through a new legislative framework, to correct the distortions that exist in the area of concessions, then this can be done with new national rules rather than European rules. Another element that should be noted and which shows the enforcement of this legislation by your partners is the fact that, as described in the explanatory statement, it has been agreed between the Government and the representatives of the institutions since 2015. We are therefore voting against it. Article 5. We are also voting against it. In the case of public-private partnerships, we think that the project should go through continuous and repeated audit - diagnostic processes of scientific, management and legal level, always under social and judicial control, in the context of transparency. We refer to the objections raised by the TEI of Central Macedonia. The announcement of the inclusion of projects in public private-law partnerships is used in communications to cover the non-promotion of projects through the Public Investment Programme. Since public-private partnership projects go ahead, it is certain that in the future they will act competitively towards the projects of the Public Investment Programme, as annual payments to private investors will be borne by the Public Investment Programme and will therefore further reduce the possibility of building new projects by it. We are also voting against Article 7. And we ask, how is it possible to ensure that what is laid down in this and that the Greek authorities are in control, once the law of the European Union prevails? So, as we have said before, Greek law should apply, especially when it comes to matters of national economic interest. We are voting against Article 9 because we strongly disagree with the concessions in any area of the country's defence and security as defined in paragraph 6 and leave a window for the application of concessions, even in secondary or third-party works and services. We are voting against Article 14, concerning the disclosure of information by contracting entities. It is also another proof of our total subordination to foreign decision-makers and it is clear that above all there is the European Commission, which also has absolute control over all the processes that are taking place. We are voting against Rule 17. We should point out that it is good that there is the five-year limit, but the extension creates questions, since there is no maximum time limit for concessions, and that is why private individuals, on the pretext of amortisation and fair return on capital, which is not defined as a percentage of the capital invested, will be able to rejoice in the benefits of the contract with a maximum profit. We are voting against Rule 18. Under no circumstances can the People's Nationalist Movement accept services of any social form, which will pass into private hands. This provision can, in fact, act as a precursor to upcoming privatisations in this sector. We are voting against Article 20 because no concessions for defence and security are acceptable to us. We declare here in Article 24. The granting of research and development services to individuals, since the benefits are indeed exclusively for the contracting authority, is something that we are in agreement with. Nevertheless, we ask that it be clarified by what rules this cooperation between individuals and the public will be governed. We are voting against Article 27 on confidentiality, where there is a confidentiality excuse for economic operators - individuals, but which they can invoke and do not reveal any important information. We are voting against Rule 33. It is wrong, as we have said in committee, to abolish these publications in the regional press. The objections were also raised in consultation. However, they were also expressed by the President of the Association of Provincial Journal Owners. We must not forget that these publications concern not only public works, supply and service contracts, but also the provision of works and services. So it's not just public and big projects. They also concern smaller supplies, a few thousand euros, which, however, are of interest to local small and medium-sized enterprises, enabling them to participate in the process. We are voting against Rule 34. Particular attention should be paid to the electronic availability of tenders, as, firstly, there is the possibility of developing non-healthy competition through it, and secondly, we must bear in mind that our country ranked in 2013 in the eighth place worldwide and in the last place of the European Union in terms of international transparency. Another feat of yours! We are voting against Rule 38. The criteria are laid down by the contracting authority - an entity, without being explicitly defined in the draft law. What does that mean? This means that there can be many interpretations and photographic wordings. We are voting against Article 39 for the selection and qualitative evaluation of the candidates. In theory, this would help to stimulate the economy by facilitating access to small and medium-sized enterprises. However, those who would in theory be excluded from the procedure may be awarded contracts on grounds of general interest or on grounds of proportionality. We are voting against Article 42, which concerns the exclusion of an economic operator from concessions. This is an important issue, on which the relevant Minister cannot and must not be involved, in order to have transparency and obviously no small interests. There should be objective and not subjective criteria in the direction of combating corruption, as the government representatives are doing. Such provisions prove to be all about the eyes of the world and leave windows - and not windows - for derogations from the law and for the particular treatment of the chosen government. We are voting against Rule 45. This provision has the effect of changing the ratings of the candidates. The provision may legalise photographic notices and highly controlled candidate’s selection. How, therefore, can the selection criteria be entirely objective when the contracting authority has the possibility of freely selecting a tender procedure and the possibility of entrusting, in several pretexts, a project or a service to a particular economic operator, which is supposed to be - the only one qualified to provide the work or service in question? We are voting against Article 49 on funding. Here are our biggest objections, since the state is increasingly bound up with the float of private tachypically capital on key issues relating to energy, infrastructure and services. We are voting against Article 51, which is, of course, for the benefit of private capital and is certainly not in line with the principles of transparency and the fight against corruption, but with micro-political interests. We are voting against Article 52 because it is a provision which strengthens the involvement of the Court of Justice in concessions. We are voting against Article 53, because we have the involvement of the banks in the process, which means that we will have again superb loans to some, new maritime loans, which will clearly be called upon to pay for by the Greek people. We are voting against Rule 55. These are tangible examples of the mistaken tactics and philosophy of concessions, such as the country's roads with the terrorous and absurd tolls. We are voting against Article 56, which concerns monitoring and reporting. It is clearly self-evident and must be checked once the bill is implemented. The monitoring reports could be carried out in a shorter time, contrary to the proposed three-year period. And, of course, we do not know again whether this procedure will be effective because of the high degree of corruption in this area. In conclusion, the Government continues the disastrous policy of its predecessors, a policy which is not conducted in the national interest, but in the interests of lenders and the domestic oligarchy of wealth. The impunity of those who broke public money remains a reality that characterises the corrupt political establishment, whether it is in power or the Right. The Golden Dawn, therefore, clearly rejects this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, too. Mr Ioannis Maniatis, a special speaker of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr President. Finally, in the summer, the government every time wins the bet with itself. In every bill submitted, he bets the bad self of the government with the worst self of the government and every time, unfortunately, he wins the worst. Even in a convention such as the one we have before us, which could have a smooth and normal debate, the government is making sure that it can legislate in a way that this Parliament is insulting and how it can take decisions that are deeply insulting the dignity of the Greek people. Looks like Umberto Echo wasn't right. Ultimately, the SYRIZA - ANEL government and August makes news, only for making negative news. But let us begin with it easily, with the main body of the bill before us, which is the ratification of the concessions directive. We agree. We worked on this as a choice in the Council of Ministers when it was there. We are pleased that the government, overcoming its own ideas and obsessed ones, is tabling this directive. Let's see where we are now. In the infrastructure sector, we have some 4.8 billion available and in order to complete the projects that the country needs, we will need at least another 1 billion. This means that we need to find new forms of financing, new sources of financing, and obviously public-private partnerships, concession contracts and project bonds can be a new source. Two principles apply to concessions, which we accept. The first principle is that the infrastructural user alone pays for the construction and maintenance of the infrastructure. It does not pay the whole of the Greek people, it does not pay the whole of the citizens. He pays only the man who uses the infrastructure. The second principle of concessions is that, depending on the risk, the two partners take the risk of each being taken into account. In other words, the State, the State, takes the risk of speeding up expropriations, and the concessionaire takes the risk, if there are any reductions in vehicle flow, traffic load flows. In order to function, however, the concession system prerequisites something that is not yet apparent in our country. It requires a sound banking system, which gives guarantee letters, which provides funding to companies. Even so, after the last tragic negotiation of SYRIZA - ANEL, it is a matter of concern. I wish we could see when we can get the capital controls over and over, but also all these limitations on the banking system. We, Mr Ministers, have tabled three proposals as Greek socialists and democrats to the Group of the European Social Democrats, which, if you are interested in being able to put them in the Left Group, the Left Party parliamentary group, where you are involved. These proposals are about the fact that at the moment there is a great debate in the European Parliament on the revision of the Community budget. So what have we proposed? Firstly, we have proposed establishing a European unemployment fund so that by financing from the surplus countries of the North to the deficit countries of the South, we support the societies that have a great deal of unemployment, especially young people, as Greece has. The second proposal has to do with the choice of large roads, energy, and railway projects, which help to improve the European development process, not only financed from the known sources of funding, which are mainly responsible for each Member State, but also takes the initiative of the European Commission itself, through its own procedures, through its own financing and with specifications that can be agreed, so as to support the choices and infrastructures, energy, road and rail, at least, of the Member States, which each time have a far-reaching need for what is envisaged in the budgets. Our third proposal is to bring back to the public debate what we as the European Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Democrats have tabled, to apply the so-called Tobin tax, the tax on short-term stock exchange transactions, so that we can find another source of funding for the two major problems that I have mentioned, namely, the hit on unemployment and support for infrastructure projects in the countries where there is a considerable need. I would remind you that this proposal, which was made following a suggestion by a Greek MEP, was approved by the European Parliament, after the initial objection by the European Commission, also received the agreement of the European Commission and Mr Siomple stopped it, which was stopped by the Eurogroup and the Council. So here's a glorious field for the current government to bring this back and forth better. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall refer to two - three amendments tabled by the government, because I think they are of greater interest and importance than to say in what articles we agree. We will do that in the resolution on the articles. Mr Tsakalotos tabled a late amendment to the effect that, by way of derogation from the law adopted by the current government, there is a need to complete the positions of the General Board of the Financial Stability Fund, a specific procedure is followed by a derogation. As we had voted against, when this bill came, this provision, it is clear that we are also voting against the derogating application of the procedures for the completion of the General Board of the Financial Stability Fund. It is not enough, however, simply to repeat the regrettable, that a member should be appointed to the General Council of the Financial Stability Fund, but that a simple opinion of the Committee proposed by the Minister is required, but that Eurogroup's assent is required. I mention this to be very clear who controls the country's banking system. Foreigners control it. Is that enough? Unfortunately, no. Falseness has other steps below. I read a Communication from the Financial Stability Fund on 19 July 2016. The position of a non-executive member was vacant. I submit for the minutes the notice. In the required qualifications, languages, it shall be indicated: ‘Unfortunate knowledge of the English language’. About the Greek language, we have no mention. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Two days later we have a statement again from the Financial Stability Fund, which I am passing away to the English title is Hellenic Financial Stability Fund. We have added to the English term and 'Hellenic'. But let's see if it's Greek. The notice of the CEO of 21 July 2016 reads as follows: ‘Opportunities, in languages, in English, in Greek will be considered as a very important additional qualification’. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, a Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I imagine that following this glimpse of the dignity of the Greek people, no one has the right to have a question about who runs the banking system of the country and obviously we will not support this amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the Group of the Democratic Independence tabled a question on something that the Association of Workers of the "ATE Insurance". We were informed, therefore, by the complaint of the employees that the reserves of "ATE Insurance" were transferred in June 2016 to another custodian than the one they were. Which guardian? At the German HSBC Bank. The questions put are very clear and have been tabled: Who has decided, if this has been done in agreement with the Financial Stability Fund, whether this fits and is fully compatible with what the Bank of Greece and the Greek Government want, and if so, we as a national Parliament, the Minister, representing the Greek Government in all these procedures, agrees. I come to the last amendment which I have to say to you that we are now saying that we will agree. It's about a four hundred and eighty-seven acres in the Falik Bay. This is an area allocated for forty years to the Attica Region. This is where they come from - I put them at the beginning - two big questions: This concession includes from behind and a decision on money, which is necessary, so that this area allocated to the Attica region will be exploited or will it remain the way it is even now, a dump site? The second question is: why do you not, together with the Region of Attica and the municipalities to which this part belongs, for example, in the municipality of Moschatos, but also in other municipalities? But for reasons of historical truth and self-awareness, we need to see what this extent is and how it emerges. So the work of refreshing the Phalic Orm uses a total area of seven hundred and fifty acres. So why not all of them, but only about half? So these seven hundred fifty acres extend from the SEF to the Tae Kwon Do. It includes the completion of the Olympic works and facilities, the transformation of the closed gym of Tae Kwon Do into a metropolitan conference centre, the displacement and degradation of the coastal avenue, the flood protection of the Moschato and Kallithea municipalities and the formation of the area in an urban park on the basis of a model design made by internationally renowned architect Rencho Piano, who is even the scholar of the Opera and the new National Library. The importance of this project is enormous. It upgrades the marine front of the city, creates extensive synergies with the Cultural Centre Stavros Niarchos and makes this area a tourist pole of unique scope and recreational pole for the inhabitants of Attica. But it's important to see how we got this far. History begins in 2010 with Law 3843. I will return to this law. Article 11, therefore, of Law 3843/2010 provides for the establishment of the programme for the integrated development and regeneration of the Faliric Orm. Secondly, 2013 is adopted by the Council of State, the Presidential Decree that we sent to the Council of State for the purpose of defining the conditions of construction, uses, specific morphological restrictions, transport projects and basic infrastructure. Third, final studies and tender documents are received in February 2014. I have to point out here that all these six study offices were prepared by the best in Greece, with the head and coordinator of the Papayannnis office. The development of the studies was financed by the Stavros Niarchos Foundation with 3.3m euros. Fourth stage. In July 2014, I had the honour, as Minister of the Environment, to sign the Strategic Environmental Impact Study, the SMP. I would remind you that in this study every time the relevant Minister signs all the actions with the necessary environmental licensing are included. It is - if you want - the most serious document that can be launched by any combination of projects provided that there is money. Fifth, we made an extensive reference to n.4277/2014, in the new Athens-Attica regulatory plan. Thirty years after Athens' first regulatory plan, the so-called "Thirteenth Law", we incorporated the overall renewal and upgrading of the entire coastal front into the new regulatory plan. So now the scripts are coming. Here we have two scenarios in front of us. Whether this assignment of the four hundred and seventy acres involves the real desire of the government to transfer the area to the region - I add that we would also like to see the respective municipalities - but then let us bear in mind that the legal and technical background is ready and that in order to make any sense the specific concession of the area should tell us where the government will find the money in order to upgrade the area, or the government recognises what we have denounced as Anti-Policy, that the super-State, to which through the ETA - a Public Property Company - has been assigned and this area is a supreme colonial and pitfall of public wealth, public property. If, therefore, the fund to which the area is allocated is not a scrapping fund and colonialism, but is a development fund, the government should make it clear to itself. We very well want to believe that the government has indeed ensured both money and, of course, this concession to local communities is a positive intervention. As we agree, we are also entitled to be strict judges to see whether this area will indeed be a lung of recreation, tourism and culture, a front for the opening of Athens' lungs, so that visitors and the permanent residents of Lecanopdi can enjoy this area. I repeat, Mr President, to conclude my position, it is clear that we in the text of the transposition of the directive accept it in principle. We'll be placed in the articles. In the case of the amendments, I have already placed my main position on them. Thank you very much for your understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr. Maniot. Mr. Vardalis, special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr President. The objective of today's bill, as well as the incorporation of European Union Directive 23/2014 on concessions, is the same as we were discussing yesterday, on public procurement, and is part of the same government's strategy. In other words, it serves this purpose, which is to open up the markets in concessions to all Member States of the European Union. Simply, without hindrance, every business group, regardless of where it is based, can, of course, participate in the concession award procedures in any Member State - Member State of the European Union. That is why the regulatory framework is being consolidated, the procedures are being simplified, the various different legislations are being dealt with and any administrative obstacles which have created problems in these companies are being removed. In this way, of course, the largest companies in the European Union are being facilitated. One of the main tools to achieve the above objectives is to convert the previous written procedure to electronics. All concessions under the electronic procedure shall be sent and communicated centrally by the issuing office of the European Union. This means, in practical terms, that the monopolistic groups have in front of them a panorama of public tender notices in all the Member States of the European Union to decide, in their interests, what projects, services and concessions they want to hit. In fact, in order for large monopolies to lose a project, it is forbidden for Member States to publish in their own country the notice of invitation to tender before the European Union publication centrally. Furthermore, it establishes the European single procurement document so that, simply and electronically, the large groups can participate in each tendering procedure in each Member State - the European Union - by completing only one form. In our opinion, the government and all the parties which agree to concessions are causing the popular strata, because they aim to continue this fence at the expense of the Greek people and for the benefit of the great capital. They are provoking, because they know that this integration is a commitment to the memorandum that all of them voted on last August. However, those who were not in Parliament at the time, from their agreement with the substance of these directives - and today and yesterday - show what they would do if they were also invited to help save the country. They wouldn't have any dilemmas. You are causing the popular layers, in our view, twice, because you are not talking about the experience of applying concessions in our country. You support - as the explanatory statement says - that concessions are the best tool through which public bodies can make use of the experience and know-how of the private sector. The example of road corridors helps us to understand what really happened in the midst of the deepest capitalist economic crisis in our country. First, through the concessions, there has been an unnecessarily continued channelling of overcompensated state funds to the domestic and foreign construction groups, as indeed ‘they were’, but these were for the monopolistic groups and therefore also for the construction of the road-axle consortia. The famous renegotiation, both of the previous government and of the current SYRIZA - ANEL, of concessions with the groups has reached agreement on new conditions to ensure yet even higher profitability of the construction groups. What did the state do? It exempted groups from their contractual obligations, including their main obligation, that of ensuring the financing of new projects. It's what you're saying that you're continuing the plays the previous ones left in the middle. At the same time, however, it took full responsibility for any delays, but also for the costs of additional compensation to groups for omissions by the public in the construction of these projects. Thus, he gave various packages of state support, the well-known "private" that our people say, to relaunch the projects. This was done before, with the New Democracy Government - PASOK now. Secondly, the priorities of the technical projects and the conditions of financing are in line with the needs of profitability of the construction groups and more generally of the stock capital, such as the banking groups, which jointly undertake the financing of the investments. Within this framework, eligible projects are only projects that can ensure rapid depreciation of the initial investment and ensure maximum return on the investment funds. So that is what you have achieved, that is to say, to ensure that these investments are made on the part of the State and, secondly, to ensure the profitability of these investments. In addition, toll prices have increased up to five times over the last five years and have even increased in works under construction or parts of projects. The third issue that comes out of experience is the following: The whole story has led to the concentration and concentration of capital. Three groups essentially - "ELLAKOPOR", "GEC TERNA" and "JP AVAX" - acquire the lion's share not only on motorways but overall on concessions and public works auctioned. The situation with the cartel in construction materials, where the unavoidable concentration in production in three or four groups of companies allows for a control of a part of production and prices. And then, without shame, you talk about strengthening small and medium-sized enterprises, Minister! You all accept the public-private partnerships that the people pay twice and three times, regardless of the individual differences you have between you. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government continues the policy of the previous governments, that is to say, virtually intact agreements in favour of construction groups. Through concessions, we had channelled massive state money, as I said before, towards the construction groups, but this money has to be paid by the people through the arrogant taxation imposed on them and the cutback on social expenditure. You cannot hide the fact that works have been done extremely expensively for the people, who pay for their construction and continue to pay for their operation. As a result of this experience, there were victorious concessions and victims. The winner was the big capital and the workers and the populace were victims. Victims, to ensure the growth of the profits of the few. Ladies and gentlemen, in a policy that strengthens capital, neither will the transposition of the directives yesterday nor today, nor the transparency in concession contracts, nor the strategy of the European Union and the Government and the development of capital, nor the development and relaunching of the economy, nor, of course, the implementation of the third memorandum or the success of the second assessment. The final end can come to the sufferings of the people, but with a real break with the system that gives rise to corruption and complexity, in which the SYRIZA - ANEL Government already offers valuable services. However, since we are talking about PPPs, I would like to refer in particular to Articles 54 and 55, which refer to the special-purpose company. The creation of this special purpose company is firstly irrelevant to Directive 23/2014, which incorporates this draft law. The general nature of these two articles is such that everything remains open. The generality of the articles is extremely dangerous, since it may include everything, there are no terms and conditions, absolutely nothing, and therefore the vehicle can be made for covert privatization and sale without any understanding. In our opinion, these articles introduce PPPs in their most dangerous form, which are covered by SYRIZA's fairy tales of advantageous partnerships. Ladies and gentlemen, with Article 62 and the next one, it is very attractive for concessionaires or interested parties, flexible, rapid, optional alternative extrajudicial procedure for resolving disputes in the performance of the concession, but also for arbitration. Where an extrajudicial procedure has not been provided for, preferential treatment for the proceedings in question shall be laid down in Article 64. For example, a definition of a fair as soon as possible, while pension cases and others of interest to the people are delayed. The large business groups, which are involved in and involved in concessions, seek to define the terms of the game and to resolve disputes with public bodies. A luxurious framework of legal protection for the large business groups concerned is established. Apart from luxury, however, there is also a clear game for strong business groups concerned, and at a global EU level based on the transposition of the directive. Even if the business groups are involved in litigation with the public, it is intended that the relevant judicial procedures should be extremely rapid and that the disputes at very low cost to them, i.e. business groups, should be dealt with promptly. The aim is to ensure the smooth completion of the public works, supplies, goods and concessions process in order to ensure certain profits in business groups. Yesterday, the Minister, as some of the majority Members of Parliament, referred to the introduction of provisions concerning the award of small and limited public contracts to various forms, such as the Joint Communities of productive workshops, with the aim, of course, of manipulating labour, popular consciences, promoting entrepreneurship, unemployed people, etc., the acceptance of capitalist barbarism in exchange for the crumbs you throw them out of the great foods of pluralism with public works and contracts. Ladies and gentlemen, no political force that bows and promotes the armoring of the competitiveness of monopolistic groups cannot ensure that public works are carried out for the benefit of people's prosperity. Our view is confirmed that the delegation of the construction of such works to private construction companies, which have the sole criterion of ensuring maximum profit, is part of the privatisation policy and leads to a prolongation of their construction time for the benefit of construction companies, an evacuation of their total costs and a levelling-up of workers' rights. The capitalist development path is the only way out of perspective for the working class and the rest of the populace. The inclusion of the struggle to meet the people's pressing vital needs in the struggle to claim another radically different development path, which will abolish monopolies and profit by socialising the concentrated means of production, through their operation by centrally design and labour control. Within the framework of such a system, the production of projects will be concentrated on a single state body, which will own the means of production, centrally allocate state funding and the workforce and cover all phases of public projects, undertake their planning and implementation in line with the urgent needs of the people's strata. This is the only hopeful path to satisfying the people's needs and the rights of workers. Finally, Mr Minister, I say that we have tabled two amendments. The first concerns workers from the former OSCE - now 'CITIZENS S.A.' - and restore equality by preventing unequal treatment between workers who have the same formal and practical qualifications. In addition, according to a decision of the board of directors of the company itself, these employees covered and cover all fixed and continuous needs and the company needs them as they are specialised scientific staff. The amendment we have tabled gives a solution to all the former contractors. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Wait a minute. The second amendment concerns students at Lamia TEI. As you know, by Decree 100 in Article 6, the specific School of Technology Applications of the TEI of Chalkida and the School of Technology Applications of the TEI of Lamia are merged into a School of Technology Applications of Central Greece, which is based in Chalkida. With the merger of the Departments of Electricity of TEI Lamia with the TEI of Chalkidas and the creation of the TEI of Central Greece, there have been various obstacles to the completion of students' own studies. The amendment facilitates students to complete their studies, enabling them to attend and provide examinations of theoretical and laboratory courses at the Electricology Department of the Central Greece TEI based in Chalkida. Mr President, we ask that you do both accept them because they are, in our view, facing serious problems. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr. Vardalis. Mr Vitsats, Vice-President of the National Defence Council, has the floor to support two amendments. Mr. Vitsa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr President. The first amendment you have taken. It is the amendment with a general number of 613 and a special 62. It refers to two issues: One is the capitalisation of the debts and outstanding bonds of the company "ELLENIC AMINISTRATIVE SYSTEMS S.A.", so that this company can capitalise the debts and be able to move from there and beyond its entire business plan. The amendment also concerns the possibility of ODA, of course, in the context of ASAP Law 2190/1994, to recruit workers for a longer period of time, due to the nature of the work that is specialized. I mean, not to hire them under eight-month contracts, but to go up to five years. And that's understandable, I imagine, because in eight months' time the worker won't even get to work. With the second amendment, I am simply adopting the amendment with a general number of 627 and a special 76 of the Members of the SYRIZA, Mrs Kozobol and Mrs Tlygoridou. This is, in fact, an amendment concerning legislative improvement - supplementing, in agreement with the Secretariat-General for Public Revenue, the Elefsina shipyards. What we are trying to achieve with this amendment is to remove the confiscation - let me say this - of the 2 million in the account, when we made the amendment, when we passed it in the law, and it was thought that 'from now on' rather than 'from now on', so that these 2 million will be released and that people will be paid. I think that we have generally agreed with either the'substances' or the vote in favour of the amendment tabled by Mr Carras and Mr Loverdos before, and with the change that I have made. These two. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u139	Mr President, will the Minister remain or will he leave?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u140	Mr Carras, if you want to ask something, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u141	On the first amendment I wanted to ask about the capitalisation of outstanding bonds by the Greek Defence Systems, if you are kind, Minister. Because I do not know if this industry, this capitalisation is State aid, so there will be a question with the European Union, whether there has been consultation or whether it has been excluded from the ban on State aid by way of defence. Have you considered this, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u142	Yes, Mr. Carras, we have. After all, capitalisation refers to nr.4237/2014, a law monitoring the agreement made by the then Ministry of National Defence - if I remember correctly, it was Mr. Avramopoulos and the Deputy Minister, Mrs. Gennimatas - which concerned the Greek defence systems. Capitalisation was therefore foreseen, due to special circumstances. The special conditions are that this agreement began at the end of 2014, elections were followed and a number of other things were followed. It has not been done so far and it has solved our hands so that it has tax security and is able to make the business plan more comfortable, so that we do not come at all and, in one way or another, derogate from giving tax information to the Greek defence systems.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u143	Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr President. I shall start with the amendments, since that is how the debate went. We are positively seeing it, Mr Vitsa, this amendment on NSAs and SCAs. I would like to ask, however, for another amendment, with a general number of 620 and a special number of 69, namely, the concession of the areas of the Falitic Hormos in the Attica region. I would like to ask the following questions, Mr Ministers: first of all, because it is not signed by other relevant ministers. The Minister for the Environment should also be present by his signature, Minister. I guess the Minister won't listen to me, so I guess I won't have the answers. Mr Stathakis, I was talking about the amendment on the land in the Falitical Cove granted to the Region of Attica. Why is this amendment not signed by the Minister for the Environment too? Also, why don't you put trade unionists and local communities, Moschato, Callithea and Faliro? Is that for sure on the land? Is it true that this is the area mentioned in the amendment? Based on what topography? These are fundamental issues, because there is an ambiguity as to the exact extent of the Faliar Ordinance and who can claim it. I now come to the subject of this draft law. A moment ago I told Mr Tsakalotos to the Committee on Economic Affairs - and that is what I was coming to say to you here too - that we are living a paradox: today, the SYRIZA Government passes two draft laws, which, as a party by 2014, had refused to support when these European legislation was passed in the European Parliament. It's amazing. It's SYRIZA's bizarre relationship with truth and reality. Until yesterday, he stoned European plans on various issues, as reflected in European directives, and today, as a government, he is already in a hurry with urgent and urgent procedures to get us to vote on them. That's unbelievable. I now come to this Directive 2014/23/EU. We are positive about the contents of European legislation that this directive contains. For the first time at European level, a set of provisions for harmonising the rules in force in the Member States concerning contracts for the award of works and services is introduced. As you know, these conventions were previously excluded from the regulatory scope of the European Public Procurement Directives, whether they were completely fragmented and regionally regulated, if we were to put together a lack of an institutional framework next to it. We had distorted the internal market in particular through direct awards by opaque procedures and without competition. In the meantime, however, an important case law has been developed in the Court of Justice of the European Union, in particular regarding the definition of the concession contract. So now the need pan-European was mature for a more modern piece of legislation dealing with these issues. In view of the particularities of this issue and of the differences between Member States, the directive avoids in detail the issues of concessions, establishing general principles and leaving details to the national authorities. Therefore, the scheme introduced today in relation to the two projects and supplies which we discussed yesterday, and as reflected in the two directives, I would say that this scheme is clearly more flexible. The objectives of the Directive are non-discrimination, proportionality, transparency through publicity, simplification and acceleration of procedures through the use of electronic means. However, I come here to ask some specific questions: first of all, do the concession contracts, Mr Ministers, the infrastructure concessions that have been transferred to the TIADE, or do they fall within the new regulatory framework? Maybe a fellow minister's partner could take it to him. Another issue that needs to be clarified and which they pointed out yesterday is the relationship with the legal framework of PPPs, public-private partnerships. Our country has Law 3389/2005 which has a detailed framework and has already developed a case-law on this. Will these two legislations, that is, the law and this directive, perhaps create problems? I mean that we have twenty articles in this draft law which have nothing to do with the body of the European directive. They do not correspond to the directive, they are full of improvisations. For example, in Article 16 on the technical competence of delegation authorities. Obviously, and we must ensure that the conventions are run. You say, however, that the ministerial decision regulating the issues of competence will be adopted within six months. Do you have the ministerial decision ready, Mr. Minister, or will the projects be blocked for another six months? In Article 19 on mixed contracts, you involve the technical councils to decide on the legal status without any control, and the directive clearly defines something different. The criterion is the main object of the Convention. So why don't we have clear rules here? I continue with Article 28, which refers to means of communication and prefers e-commerce. You are therefore referring to this article in the optional use of ESADI, the National Electronic System of Public Contracts, in concession contracts. In order for it to be compulsory, three ministerial decisions are needed. Why should it not be compulsory from the outset, because of the advantages of the system it has for contracting authorities, but also for the firms that claim and receive the projects? In Article 29 we see very clearly the fact that expropriations and archaeological work must be completed before delegation, in order to avoid these delays which, in the end, are financially burdening the public. However, unless measures are taken to speed up procedures in front of both justice and archaeological services, the risk of blocking projects is visible. You have added, ladies and gentlemen of the government, a number of articles in this draft law which, in our view, only aim to impress. Two articles, therefore, deal with the contents of contractual documents, Articles 36 and 48, with a long but indicative indication of their content. The same is true of Article 59 on the documentation of contracts, which describes the dossiers and the subfolders again not exhaustively. It is not clear that any document relating to the contract will be kept? You also refer to databases at the Ministry. We don't know whether they're ready or not. Give us some evidence about this. With regard to Article 42 for exclusion decisions, you tell us that three entities will be notified and registered in the National Data Base. Should the registration we are talking about not normally be ensuring that all contracting authorities and entities are aware of the exclusion decision? Why the three notifications? I don't think you want to impress anyone. Article 55(2) states that each competent authority shall provide any assistance in order to ensure that the concessionaire receives in an uninterrupted manner the consideration paid by the demand for the services. Let me just say it. With Article 55, gentlemen of the Government, do you renounce the "I do not pay" movement? Because that's what you tell us here. We find it positive. But you come out and tell the world already, someone gets decongested psychologically and comes to another point of equilibrium. Because some have left on "I don't pay, I don't pay" and they have the trials on their heads now. In Article 50 for subcontracting: Here we have an excellent article of your own, for the exception of checking compliance with the selection criteria by the subcontractor. You've got a limit, too. If, in other words, a subcontractor performs 29% of a project, we do not mind if there is a decision against exclusion from the contract. What limit is that? Where did it come from? So I'm telling you it's a challenge for circumvention. They used to cut off the projects from the budgets now cut down the sub-contracts to a limit and then regain the well-known party. Another article of your own inspiration, which is not included in the European directive, is Article 67 for the bodies which are acting and consulted. We do not think it is obvious that they will not be the same as those of them. It is a general principle of administrative law, after all. However, you must clearly define the qualifications of officials and officials to be made up of these institutions. As you know, financial employees do not exist in the public sector. There are financial sector officials. Look at it, please. Now, let's go see some articles that came as amendments and have nothing to do with the main body, of course. Article 71 for radio-television antennas. It's the third extension you're giving. This time it's been for eighteen months. When will the licensing procedure be completed? Are you saying it's only on television and the big channels, which have now entered another start? There's no radio connection? What are you looking at as a Ping Pong viewer and prolonging? Tell us what you're going to do with these permits. Now for Article 72, the corresponding problem with the non-authorisation of mobile antennas. Why should it be over six months? In addition, the Commission notes that the exporting producers concerned did not provide any evidence to the effect that the exporting producers in the Union would not have been able to export the product concerned to the Union during the investigation period. It has been five months and no procedure has been foreseen. Tell us what's going to happen. In addition, have you calculated the new cost? Because the calculation has been made on the basis of the values of 2001. Now, as we have said in committee, Potami is at the outset positive for the transposition of European directives. The flexibility, however, as we have said and it appears from the texts and the direction of the European Union, belongs to the governments, to the national groups. In this draft law, with few exceptions, we unfortunately do not have a clear framework or specific guidelines toward the contracting authorities. This will typically be done with the standardisation of notices and contracts and the training of officials, which is certainly not legally provided for. But the experience of the motorways, where the Greek State ended up raising the entire investment risk because of the delays and the terms of the contracts, should have taught us. We'll see what happens in practice. We are here to uphold legitimacy. And I hope that some of the answers from the honourable ministers, especially the key issues that I have raised to you, which are related to the European directive, and not just. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u145	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u146	Mrs Bakoyannis, Mr Chakalotos has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u147	Can Mr. Chakalotos answer me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u148	To speak first, to ask later. Mr. Chaakalot, how much time do you need?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u149	Two minutes to support the amendment to the CFSF.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u150	The Minister for Finance, Mr Euclidis Tsakalotos, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u151	Basically, we come to fill a gap in the law we hadn't predicted. As you know, the assessment of CFS members from the panel, where a number of people had problems, and anyway we have resignations and now, in fact, CFS is not working. Until the new CEO comes out, we propose in this amendment that the Council decide from experienced executives one from the administration and one from the board itself to have implementing debts until the new CEO arrives. I read in the papers today that Chakalotos defines a foreign CEO to the CFS. I must tell you that the process has been opened and it is open to everyone, that there is a need to know the Greek language. I will be given a list of candidates from the panel, from which I will choose one. So unless the newspapers I don't know know anything about, it doesn't appear that Chakalotos has decided to choose a foreign CEO for the CF. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, too. Mrs Bakoyannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I would like to return to the previous amendment, which was tabled in due course by Mr Vitsa. I am sorry that the Minister responsible is not here because I have sat down and read the amendment and I am amazed, Mr Tsakalote. This amendment, not much or much, says that ODA, from now on, can be recruited for at least five years by anyone who wants to meet certain criteria, which are here - for five months, the Minister has spoken to us before the Minister, here says of contracts up to five years - whoever he wants and who does not have a derogation from the AACC. And I wonder, Mr President: in a society that needs nurses, doctors, teachers, the Ministry of National Defence is treated so much and differently from the Government that the Minister of Finance agrees to sign such an amendment? Do you share a company in three? With my poor mind, I don't understand why they need three boards of management from a company. He won't pay taxes, won't he? All this I imagine the Treasury will have studied. I can't help it. I can, however, ask the Minister of Finance if there is a central control over the priorities that this country needs when recruited. The least the House could expect on the eve of the 15th century is that the government should come and tell her how many people we are talking about, what needs it has and what it is, which makes these recruitments necessary. Mr Tsakalotes, I would like a reply from the Ministry of Finance, because in the end the cut will concern all the employees, not only the people of ODA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u154	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u155	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u156	Mr. Loverdos, on the same subject?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u157	No, Mr. President. I want to ask Mr. Chakaloto a question. Because we have the committee of inquiry and I have to go, I have no room, Mr President, for my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u158	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u159	I would like to ask Mr Tsakalotos why he brought this amendment to the General Council of the CFSF? Did something happen and is today forced to suggest that to us?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u160	I thought I explained it, but, if you'd like, I'd say it again. I don't have a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u161	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u162	What happened is that, in view of the evaluation of the panel at the HFSF, some resigned. I do not remember how many, but it does not have the minimum number of members, so that it can work in the summer, which is now starting to assess the banks themselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u163	It's not your business, that is. There were resignations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u164	Yes, there were resignations and we had not predicted this in the law that we passed before Christmas. So they'll have temporary executive debts until the new CEO comes out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u165	She has an answer to me, doesn't she?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u166	If the Minister wants to, he'll answer. Mr. Stathakis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u167	Because I accept the amendment put forward for the defence systems, I think we should put it in a context. The amendment has three elements in it. The first is the capitalisation of debts, which creates the minimum requirement for sustainability. The second introduces this flexibility into the recruitment of staff, depending on the needs of the company and the operational plan it has. And of course, once again, this company is at a crucial point. It makes an effort to restructure and has an operational sustainability plan for the future, and these amendments, in essence, support this prospect. In any case, with the limited financial data available and until the company's possibilities are released, it is evident that the recruitments you have implied will always be carried out under the approval of the Minister of Finance, otherwise there will be no possibility under the terms of the company's own finances. I therefore do not think that a fundamental issue arises in the view that we are releasing the company's perspective, rather than in a prospect of viability.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u168	Mr President, may I have the floor for a reply?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u169	Please, Mr. Vitsa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u170	We can solve some possible misunderstandings, Mrs. Bakoyannis. Of course, I did not hear all your speech. I just realized you're talking about my amendment, I'm here. First of all, for the first part, the Hellenic Defence Systems have been broken into two companies since 2013, with the Eurogroup agreement and a law passed by the Greek Parliament. A piece is the political Hellenic Defence Systems, which are being dismantled and another piece is the Hellenic Defence Systems, which, as a successor, has taken most of the debts, weights, etc.. The law passed by this House in 2014 provides for the capitalisation of the debts that I mentioned. So we're done with this piece. We are now coming to organise that ambiguity of the law better so that capitalisation can take place. That's what we're doing. As far as ODA is concerned, it is a dynamic company with too much work and programmes for which discussions are taking place and which are about to come in the next few years. Today's staff, to get the whole job out, is probably not enough. So we put the logic of self-financed - which is what I call it - a job. This is a fixed-term contract. In view of the current situation, this would mean an intake for eight months. Because ODA wants skilled engineers, who will not only be of the Polytechnic - many of them need to have postgraduate and doctorate - we are able, in agreement with both the Ministry of Labour and the institutions, to this type of contract on a specific project to last for up to five years. Where is this recruitment going to take place? From S.H.I.E.L.D. Where is anyone, if you want, a change? The change is that we first set the standard criteria, the scientific criteria and the experience at work, and if two are equal to that, we start taking our social criteria into account. This also helps the company and the company's work and its operational plan, as the Minister has said in detail and resolves this issue. This, as a decision, I must tell you that it has been held in May at a joint meeting of the Ministers responsible, in negotiations integrated and in agreement with the respective Association, i.e. all those involved.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u171	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u172	Mrs Bakoyannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u173	Minister, I beg your pardon very much, but this bill does not say. The bill says that “the choice will be made by EAB, without prejudice to the rules of the SAAP”. And because our Greeks are well - and yours and mine - we know that when we say 'without being affected', we mean that on the basis of these criteria, the recruitments will be carried out by ODA. So I have a very specific question and a very specific disagreement. I think that when anyone has the whole picture, if he says, and if he says, "I will, from now on, do as many recruits as I want, according to the criteria that I want", it is something that we cannot agree with. I am very sorry, but I think the state has other needs, much more pressing than saying today that something specific is needed. Come and tell us tomorrow in Parliament that we have this contract, we need these people, with a certain number. You are currently asking the House to vote on a law to which you will be able to hire everyone you want for five years. I am very sorry that the New Democracy cannot agree to this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mrs. Bakoyannis. Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u175	Mr President, I would like to ask Mr Tsakalotos a question on his amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u176	You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, if you are kind, I see you are referring to the Executive Committee of the Financial Stability Fund. As far as I can see from the law, the members of the General Assembly and the Executive Committee are chosen following a public invitation from the selection committee. My question is, at the moment, whether the selection committee has been set up and whether it is working. So, could it not work in the parallel consolidation of the two positions, as you mentioned, and the selection committee suggest in the legal form, the orthodox way that the government has chosen when legislating? Because today it remains the impression, at least in my perception, that there is a substantial change in the law and it is possible that it will be re-entered. It is assumed that the Financial Stability Fund is subject to a Memorandum of Understanding from the first Memorandum. It has also been updated by the law of the Supreme Court, which refers to the transfer. Have you dealt with the issues of involvement that may exist in relation to credit contracts? Have you also identified or dealt with the issues of involvement in the operation of the Financial Stability Fund as such? Because today, as far as we are concerned, the issue of red loans and possible is now the capital base of banks with the current situation, where the recession and the downturn in public revenues continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u178	Do you want to answer, Minister? Mr. Chakatus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u179	It's time-consuming procedures and rules. You're not right. It's not easy to find a CEO within two and three weeks. That's why we bring in a process until the new CEO comes out, so it won't be headless.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u180	Shouldn't you have taken care of it with surrogates?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u181	Please, Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u182	You're right that the law hadn't predicted that. I said that from the outset he had a problem with it. I confessed it from the first moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u183	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u184	Mr. Vitsa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u185	I'd like to talk about not falling into a huge misunderstanding and wrong. He can vote, of course, whatever he wants. Who's asking the A.S.S.A. to do some recruitment? The OAB administration. Well, who's he asking for it on whose basis? On the basis of a specific programme. For how long? Up to five years. It's specific, as a municipality has been doing for eight months. He writes them in. Look at the explanatory statement. You'll vote whatever you want. But that was a request - to remind you - of the previous administration of ODA and of the current and unions that exist. So all the logic goes to it. And when it's about hiring S.A.B. through S.A.D., you want increased formality. The man who will go to fight planes or military personnel transfer aeroplanes and to electronics and engineering, etc., cannot be qualified. That's what I'm explaining. And when I say that they are not affected, I mean that the whole ADP procedure is being followed. If a change of word is needed in this direction, that is to say that the procedures of the AACC are followed, I have no objection to making such a legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u186	The number is the problem. What's the need?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u187	Mrs. Bakoyannis, ask why. Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u188	Mrs. Bakoyannis, I'm reexplaining. What do you want? Every time an EAW makes a programme to come to Parliament and talk to Parliament - why are we politically resolving it here - that EAB should hire five employees? And make a special law for five workers?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u189	Here please for five doctors in the “Evangelism”!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u190	Mrs. Bakoyannis, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u191	So you say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u192	You're welcome, Mr. Vitsa. Mrs Bakoyannis, if you want me to give you the floor for a minute, I will give it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u193	Thank you very much, Mr President, and forgive me. I think the problem, Mr Minister, is not at this moment on what criteria you will take, nor am I able to tell you whether a engineer has knowledge or has not. That's not my problem. My problem is that you come and ask the House to be free to hire anyone you want, on your own criteria, for up to five years. So in the hierarchy of the New Democracy's priorities, EAB cannot be the first man to get the freedom to hire in that country, but be other areas where we need the world more. So I repeat, when we are lost to five doctors at Trikalon Hospital or "Evangelism", I do not accept that you in EAW can hire anyone you want in a number that we don't know about. This is our disagreement, and I hope I am understood. First of all, ODA has excellent potential right now. It has people with too many qualifications, who have held ODA upright for too many years. This means that if you want to get new people, come to the House and get in touch because you need them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u194	Since the responsibilities of the AACC are unaffected...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u195	I think we don't agree. Why does EAB need...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u196	Mr President, for the last time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u197	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u198	What's not understood? There is no indeterminate recruitment of undetermined or permanent.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u199	Five years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u200	No, not five years, but five years on the basis of a specific programme every time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u201	On the basis of a programme.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u202	For example, for F-tadas or F-tadas - I do not want to name them, because others are of one company and others - an upgrade programme is under way. That's where we need ten engineers. We go to the AACC and say that on the basis of this programme, we have this project and we need ten engineers for three years. It's over. That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u203	In the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u204	Okay, that's our difference, but don't stay as long as we're hiring, because you know we can't do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u205	I don't know. At the moment what you are asking of this House is the freedom to do. Whether you're doing it, I don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u206	Mrs. Bakoyannis...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u207	Mr. Vitsa, I think the conversation is over. Mr Lazaridis has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin my position today with a point, in particular by addressing the good colleagues of the Staff Regulations. For days, the foreigner and the Greek press have been on the Georgiou case. Georgios is referred to a new crisis on the charge of a false attestation or otherwise to make it more linen, because there are reasonable suspicions that he has altered the evidence as ELSTAT President in order to open the door to the IMF in the Eurozone and to lead the country where he has led it today. Also, the other aim was to tarnish the alteration of data in the period 2004-2009 of Kostas Karamanlis, which country had the highest growth rates. I would therefore expect colleagues, especially the Officerial Response, to make even a comment on this case in the case of George. I would now like to say a word, because I tabled an amendment yesterday. With this I call on our fellow citizens, when they want to bring legal proceedings to deal with fines or taxes on taxes or other services, - because there is a 2010 law imposing cash payments equal to 50% of the value of the fine - to lodge safeguards, i.e. either to bear a property that is equal to 50% of the value, whether a guarantee letter or a guarantee letter, or a guarantor guaranteed by it for that amount of the debtor. I therefore call for this possibility to be given to our fellow citizens. And I think it is a facility that has no financial cost, while on the other hand it gives relief, it gives some light to all that blackness that has existed for years to our fellow citizens in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, so far neither nationally nor at European level existed a comprehensive legislative framework which regulates the procedure for awarding and implementing concessions. That is why we are now called upon to incorporate European Union Directive 23/2014 on public procurement and concession contracts, the application of the provisions of the directive, and other provisions of procedural law. The provisions of this draft law ensure the creation of a modern, transparent and effective legislative framework for the award and enforcement of concessions, which will guarantee compliance with the rules of secondary European law on public procurement, capable of ensuring the efficiency of procedures with a full guarantee of the public interest. The concession contracts are the most common form of public-private partnership. It is a balanced and flexible legal framework for the award of concessions - such as that sought by this directive - and it will ensure genuine and non-discriminatory market access for all economic operators, which will favour public investment in infrastructure and strategic services to citizens. Pursuant to Article 345 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Treaties in no way prejudice the rules of the Member States governing the status of ownership. Therefore, in accordance with the law of the European Union, including the concessions directive, public authorities remain completely free to carry out public tasks entrusted to them using their own resources or resources. However, if a public authority decides to award, for example, a private company to provide the service and conclude a concession contract with it, the provisions of the Directive must be complied with, in particular, the obligations relating to the selection and award criteria to be followed by entities awarding concessions. Given the rapid expansion of electronic purchasing systems, the Directives introduced into national law provide for specific rules for the implementation and operation of such systems, which ensure equal treatment of all economic operators who wish to participate in them. It is true, moreover, that the exclusion of concessions so far, from the scope of the European Public Procurement Directives, created insecurity regarding the legal status, which regulated their award procedures and left a wide margin of discretion in the national laws of the Member States. It shall, inter alia, lay down rules on procurement procedures by contracting authorities or contracting entities through concessions, partnerships between the public sector and in particular private companies, where they deal exclusively with the operation, maintenance and development of infrastructure, for example, ports, parking areas, roads with tolls or provide services of general economic interest, for example, energy, water distribution and waste disposal. Arrangements are also introduced to ensure rapid and effective legal protection and resolution of disputes, taking into account the specificities and complexity of the award procedures and the terms of the contractual framework governing their implementation. These Directives also specify how contracting authorities may contribute to the protection of the environment and to the promotion of sustainable development. Where the implementation of environmental management measures or schemes in the performance of the public contract is justified by the nature of the works or services, such measures or schemes may be required by contracting authorities. In order to ensure respect for European law, therefore, the committee has set up a system to verify whether European rules on public procurement are respected when carrying out projects or programmes financed by the Structural Funds and other European financial instruments, with a view to combating infringements of the rules, simplifying and modernising procedures, and opening up the markets in the European Union, as well as the effects of this opening up to third countries. In addition to the basic provisions, the characteristics of the new legal framework are the following areas, firstly, unification and homogeneity. The draft law regulates all works and services contracts awarded by contracting authorities and contracting entities in both the public sector and public utility services in a uniform and uniform manner. It also regulates all concessions regardless of their estimated value, i.e. also regulates concessions that fall below the threshold for application of Directive 2014/23/EU, as well as concessions for social and other services. It also aims at simplifying and speeding up competitive procedures, Article 41 of Directive 23. All the provisions of the draft law have been formulated with a view to simplifying and speeding up the maturity and the tendering of concessions. Indicatively, a mechanism for changing the burden of presentation of the supporting documentation of the qualitative selection criteria from the phase of participation in the final phase of award is introduced. In particular, the tenderers are required to provide only one responsible declaration - a questionnaire of quality selection to participate in the tender in which they confirm that they meet the quality selection criteria and only the final contractor is required to provide all the evidence to document the completion of those confirmed in the responsible declaration. This practice is expected to favour the participation of the largest number of economic operators in the procedures and thus to expand competition, speed up competition and substantially reduce bureaucratic burdens. It is also intended to implement social policy, Article 23 of the Directive. The draft law allows public bodies to grant exclusive rights to participate in the procedures for granting services to protected productive workshops, social cooperatives with limited liability, social cooperatives with integration, etc., in the context of the implementation of policies aimed at strengthening vulnerable groups. It introduces arrangements allowing public bodies to take into account environmental and social aspects throughout the award and performance cycle of the concession by means of appropriate technical specifications, qualitative selection and award criteria, as well as conditions for the performance of the contract. For the first time, it provides for exclusion of tenderers from award procedures or their infringement of provisions of environmental and labour legislation. It aims at enhanced publicity and information. The draft law defines the Central Public Procurement Register as the only mandatory point of publishing all stages of the concessions at national level - the publication of notices in other forms or electronic means of communication on a voluntary basis remains possible - which, on the one hand, will facilitate the information of stakeholders on business opportunities presented through concessions and, on the other, will contribute to the establishment of an electronic database for concessions and serve as the main means of exporting reliable statistics. In addition, in the direction of increasing transparency, free, unlimited and complete direct access is provided by electronic means to the tender documents in accordance with internationally established best practices. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] Standardisation of declarations is expected to significantly simplify both the preparation of the procurement of concessions by public bodies and the participation of tenderers, as the procedures for the procedure will be clearly defined in the standard tender documents in advance, and the standardisation of the tender documents will ensure compliance with the existing legislation and will limit appeals against the terms of the tenders. In addition, it aims at effective legal protection at the pre-contractual stage and at the implementation stage, Article 60 of Directive 23. The draft law introduces arrangements under which rapid and effective legal protection is ensured at a stage prior to the conclusion of the contract and lays down flexible procedures for the resolution of disputes arising in the performance of concessions, taking into account the specificities and complexity of both the award procedures and the terms of the contractual framework governing their implementation. Such arrangements shall ensure that these disputes are resolved quickly and by extending the completion of the award and award procedures as a whole, thereby serving the public interest, but also by encouraging the participation of investors mainly from abroad. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'm closing right now. Ladies and gentlemen, the concessions bill introduces public interest protection and corruption safeguards into the sensitive area of works and public procurement and is expected to be an important tool for the realisation of public investment that will serve growth, employment enhancement and the conversion of the economic climate. The Independent Greeks support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u209	Thank you. MEP Mr Theocharis (Harris) Theocharis asks for a short-day absence abroad from 4-8-2016 to 7-8-2016. Also, MP Georgios - Dimitrios Karras seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad from 13-8-2016 to 18-8-2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u210	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. Mr Ioannis Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u211	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the centre of the Union of Centres]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have said not to plunder the Central Association in this Chamber, but according to the government's practices we should respond exactly the same way. This draft law, which you see, was tabled last night in the Committee on Production and Trade in the form of urgency, is being discussed in committee today and tomorrow it has been set to come to plenary. The Centro Association has committed itself to the Greek people to supporting the right and the right and to denounce and resist unjust and malicious. The simple analogue was a programme position of the Central Association. It was a principle for the Centroon Association and supported it in this Chamber. The criminalisation of the political world for political choices, thoughts and decisions has not found us in agreement and we have voted against it again in this Chamber. However, these practices should sometime end. Today, in the Committee on Production and Trade in the Senate, the government should be ashamed of what it has presented, because they are insulting democracy. It offends democracy the way in which we legislate in this House and are essentially responsible, and it is the government alone. For us, the word democracy is not just a simple word, which we drag out of this space. We're also supporting her in this space and out of this space. The word shame fits the way the government legislates. It surprises everyone. Everyone's gonna react. That's the logic, and that's the truth. They don't want peace, they don't want consensus, they don't want cooperation. They have a tendency to wickedness, which they actually bring into this Chamber, in this bill, which I shall shortly analyse and will be placed on the wicked government by our parliamentary representative, Mr Carras. The bill before being submitted to the Committee on Production and Trade had four chapters. The first two concerned Renewable Energy Sources. It was in the form of an emergency. The third chapter refers essentially to the mosque which will be built both in the Tritsis Park and in the provisions which come from the government for this famous Tritsis Park, but which is not asked by the mayors and local authorities if they agree with the provisions they bring. Consider, too, something that can be judged unconstitutional. We don't know. With the money of the municipalities, the government wants to build an independent body, a legal entity governed by private law, which will be subject to the Minister and the Minister will have absolute control. Tomorrow, in this Chamber, we will discuss this bill which I have just mentioned. I would like you to know that the Central Association has reserved itself for place in plenary. Why? Because behind it there are some people who have supported it and who are not in her practice of mocking those people who have actually supported it. We cannot be informed, incorporated and exploited by what this bill brings from last night until this morning. We have reserved ourselves for putting us in tomorrow's plenary in any way and in whatever way we can have on our side. Let us now come to today's bill, where, in fact, we have a different climate from the climate that I described earlier. When the bill was introduced, to come to the committees, Minister Stathakis was forced by the Rules of Procedure of the House to argue in favour of the government's proposal, so that this bill and yesterday's debate can be discussed with urgency. He simply spoke of the suffocating deadlines that the Greek Government is facing, which, of course, was already known to Parliament since 17 August 2014, as was the final date for our country to be brought into line with European law. The end date, as you know, was April 17, 2016. So we're here three months late as a country now. The deadlines, which were not respected by Parliament, had arisen from our country's obligation to comply and integrate into the internal legal order of Directives 23/2014, 24/2014 and 25/2014 of the European Union, which Parliament is required to vote in favour of. He voted in favour yesterday and is invited to vote today on Directive 23/2014. In any event, this failure to plan the government, which leads it once again to legislate with the urgent procedures, could have been very simply avoided if the debate had begun even a week earlier. With better planning, there may have been various other disparities, such as the one made apparent to those who followed the process of hearing the bodies, where the Independent Authority for Public Contracts stated, by its representative, that it was informed of the changes to the bill in relation to the one you had put in mind, asking for their opinion and comments last April, from Parliament's website on the day that you posted the bill. The Independent Public Procurement Authority said that it was informed by Parliament's website on the day the bill was posted. Another practice of government legislating! In fact, as proof of his words, the representative of the Public Procurement Authority explained to us that I was amazed at the fact that he read in Article 375 of yesterday’s bill that the percentage of public contracts, which is the only source of revenue from the Authority, is reduced from 0,1 to 0,06. The surprise is quite justified, since in this case they will not have the money or their payroll. I would remind you that this principle has not yet been fully staffed and has not even been chaired and with the creation of its new arbitration body you have removed one of its most critical powers. We are not sure that the government has adequately considered the possibility of strengthening the Independent Public Procurement Authority so that it can take over this project, by making time and money, for the benefit of taxpayers, and after three years of operation it also has the relevant know-how and the necessary experienced personnel. I would like to point out that if the authority receives more than it needs, in order to cover well-known costs, then it returns 80% of the surplus to the Greek State, which made this decision even more curious for you to reduce its percentage to 0,06 on public procurement, but also to subtract it from its preliminary dimension. Finally, will we strengthen the independent authorities in this place? Will the Greek Parliament help in this? Do we want the independent authorities? Shall we, first of all, conclude what we want? Or will we create new bodies and agencies, new agencies, new bodies in addition and complementary to the work of the independent authorities, thereby risking creating more bureaucracy and promoting opacity? And because we are talking about public works contracts, we are actually talking about what the Greek people regard as the source of corruption and interlocutory in Greece. Any honesty of the government is vulnerable to criticism due to failures in the process of creating a new legislative framework ensuring the necessary sound procedural environment for the award and execution of public contracts. No one disputes that harmonisation with European directives serves the public interest and to some extent shields public procurement procedures from well-known old practices that favour corruption and complexity. The same applies to efforts to bring together, update and codify the relevant laws, so that a brake can enter into the relevant diversity and bureaucracy and strengthen the concept of good administration. Of course, it is also very good that a national objective is being made for the proper use of technology in order to ensure conditions of transparency and avoid infringibility and impunity. Indeed, the incorporation of Directive 23 brings about substantial changes. But can we talk about a new era in the awarding and execution of public contracts? I think not. This is because, while we recognize the government's good intentions, we do not see them formulated in a clear way in the articles of these bills. On the contrary, there are ambiguities. Of course, however, this is a great step forward for our country, which is being delayed and costed for the Greek taxpayer. It is important, for example, that subcontracting is recognised for the first time, that works fragmentation is possible not as a means of waste and corruption, but as a means of meeting current needs. In the positive measures, too, we measure the fact that effective and multi-level operation, under Article 38 of yesterday's bill, of the Central Electronics Register of Public Contracts, is being strengthened in this famous register. In fact, the Government is trying, with this draft law, to correct misappropriate texts and to strengthen its efforts at European level to codify procedures for the award and execution of public contracts and to limit bureaucracy, in the light of internationally recognised good practice and with a view to simplifying procedures, ensuring the principle of proportionality, ensuring transparency and quality in all manifestations and extensions of the conclusion, supervision and execution of public works and concessions. We must support this effort, which aims to enhance transparency and stimulate healthy entrepreneurship through cooperation between the public and private sectors. Although PPP issues have in the past been a field of strong controversy, the Greek Government is now sincerely reintroducing an objective view of things and choosing to follow the European path of establishing common rules, which will reduce the distortions resulting from national legislation, in a common open market such as the European market. At the same time, the adoption of these directives and of the other European national parliaments also reveals the precise size of State intervention, which the European economic thought accepts, regarding the functioning of the common market. The demand for transparency is universal and the introduction of rules for its security is an urgent need for democracy and a strong social demand. The European institutions and the individual states must, in order to confirm their high cultural level, exemplaryly institutionalise good and effective practices of good public money management through the transparent conclusion and execution of public contracts, which in Greece account for almost half of the size of public sector finances, while in Europe public procurement reaches up to 18% of GDP. The Centro Association will continue to support consistently and decisively the country's European path. We will vote in favour of this bill at first, we will reserve some articles and for the amendments our parliamentary representative, our dear Parliamentary representative, will speak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, too. The Minister, Mr Stathakis, has the floor for presenting the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u213	These are two categories of amendments, short-term and late. The first has a general number of 574 and a special 47 and was lodged by Mr Karagiannis. This amendment cannot be accepted. The next one has a general number of 599 and a special 54, Mr Vardakis and Mrs Aylonitos. It concerns the performance of fines, and I am positive, it is accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u214	We don't have that, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u215	They've been distributed, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u216	Okay, because there's a lot of people I can't find. It can therefore be accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u217	The following two, the general numbering of 607 and special 57 and the general numbering of 608 and of Mrs Theopevtou’s special numbering of the allowances for the Ionian Islands region, are not accepted. The amendment, with a general number of 609 and a special number of 59, concerning the incompatibilities of students, is accepted. It's Mr. Vardakis, Mrs. Gara and others. We are now entering the category of late amendments. Some of them suggest coming back to future bills, after there has been a further valuation of the various categories of contract. One has been made by the JRC concerning the 'CRITERIA OF HUNGARY' and the unequal treatment of two categories of workers. I propose that this should be returned to a next bill, but when we have a full picture of the third category of workers I have learned that they must be jointly regulated. It is therefore important that we have a single proposal that regulates all these loose ends together. So it is not acceptable, but I propose that it should come back when we have better documentation for all the categories of workers who have working problems in the past. Amendment No 618 is accepted and Mr Bardalis's special name is 67. It concerns students and their ability to facilitate follow-up and exams after the merger of the two TEIs. It's accepted. The amendment with a general number 619 and a special number 68 by Mr Lazaridis is also positive, but a further investigation is needed by the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance. I suggest she returns to another bill. The amendment under general number 621 and a special 70 concern the staff of the ELGA and travellers. It can't be accepted. It's tabled by Mr. Maniatis. The amendment under a general number 622 and a special 71 is tabled by Mr Maniotis and concerns companies which must move within areas of financial control. We agree with this amendment, but it is not accepted now. He comes in a bill of industrial competence. It regulates this issue in the bill, which will be submitted by Mrs Jackris and is more fully regulated, as it concerns all the issues of industry movement within economic control areas. So this is in the category of the amendments that are being reintroduced. There will be in a government bill very soon. There is another amendment, an amendment with a general number of 626 and a special 75. There is no possibility of evaluating it at the moment. It's Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos. So we say 'no' to her too. And the last is the amendment under general number 627 and a special 76, which concerns Elefsina Shipyards. We have already accepted it during the debate with the Deputy Minister of Defence. I reckon: The amendment with a general number 574 and a special number 47: No. The amendment with a general number of 599 and a special 54: Yes. The amendment under a general number 607 and a special number 57: No. The amendment with a general number of 608 and a special number 58: No. The amendment under a general number 609 and a special number 59: Yes. The amendment with a general number 617 and a special number 66: No. The amendment with a general number of 618 and a special 67: Yes. The amendment under general number 619 and specific number 68: No. The amendment under a general number 621 and a special 70: No. The amendment under a general number 622 and a special number 71: No. The amendment under a general number 626 and a special number 75: No. The amendment under a general number 627 and a special number 76: Yes. All the remarks I made about the individual amendments, namely, for which - I repeat - we believe that they need to come back with an additional, further processing, in relation to those for which we have a negative position.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u218	Mrs. Thalerite, you have the floor. Then Mrs Chrysosvelloni will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u219	Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law for the first time in Greece creates a comprehensive and comprehensive legislative framework which regulates the procedure for the award and execution of concessions. The awarding of concessions is a matter of particular importance, particularly in the current context of our country's serious budgetary constraints and economic difficulties. Legislation on concessions is considered one of the measures which can help to ensure a more efficient distribution of public money, creating the conditions for a competitive and transparent award of a contract. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, as you are aware, the tendering and implementation of concession contracts has been based on the provision of Article 11 of the Public Works Code and on the provisions of the institutional content for the implementation of public-private partnership projects under Law 3389/2005, which, however, only apply to specific projects which form part of this scheme. The unclear and inadequate institutional framework has led to the practice of the concession agreements being ratified by Parliament by law, primarily in order to satisfy the needs of safeguarding trade relations, but also in order to introduce derogations from existing legislation, so as to facilitate and accelerate the implementation of projects which were facing serious delays. This procedure has had a number of malfunctions, as we all know, since it caused problems of either legal nature, for example, the amendment of the conventions required ratification by Parliament and of practical importance, such as major delays in the completion of the work procedures. Furthermore, the current situation of the lack of legal certainty and of ever-changing legislation caused serious economic deficiencies and was detrimental to both contracting authorities and economic operators, as well as to users of such services. Enterprises and banks were constantly at risk, committing large sums of money to long-term concessions. The public authorities could be faced with persistent complaints and a solution to their contracts. Against this background, therefore, this draft law comes in order to highlight and regulate the specific features of the contracts, stressing the different way in which the projects are awarded and executed by public contracts, such as reduced bureaucratic procedures, funding and transfer to the concessionaire of the financial risk of the holding. In other words, it is created in a long-term, secure and reliable legislative framework, which on the one hand ensures healthy competition with a genuine and non-discriminatory market access for economic operators and on the other hand, the state can now ensure quality services for citizens at better prices and develop a more long-term strategy for infrastructure and services - which is still missing. The purpose of this legislative initiative, beyond the incorporation of Directive 2014/23/EU, is therefore that it is a national planning where a large part of the arrangements are national regulations. These arrangements reflect the SYRIZA's policy and intention for balanced and sustainable development. What are the innovative elements of this draft law? His social character. What do we mean by that? For the first time the financial model of the arrangement includes social indicators and criteria, based on the economic conditions in force at the time of the contract, for economic development and for the protection of vulnerable and vulnerable social groups. What else does this bill give? It enables public bodies to grant exclusive rights to participate in the award procedures of service concessions to protected productive workshops, limited social cooperatives and social cooperatives. Indeed, it creates a framework for social cohesion policies that strengthen vulnerable groups. What's an extra import? It introduces arrangements allowing public bodies to take into account environmental and social aspects throughout the award and performance cycle through appropriate technical specifications, qualitative selection and award criteria, as well as conditions for the performance of the contract. For the first time, it is foreseen that the exclusion of tenderers from a tender procedure or their infringement of environmental and labour law provisions is justified. It is not possible, ladies and gentlemen, to keep in mind that the permanent residents of a municipality or the unemployed of a region or those with a disability are not taken into account in such large infrastructure projects, or that there is no provision for the time for the project to be granted at such times that the economically weak strata can use these structures, which have arisen from the concession. It is clear that these measures meet the principles of the social justice of the SYRIZA, ensuring social cohesion and solidarity. I would also like to focus on another innovative element in the fight against corruption and opacity. We all know very well that the existing system of public contracts and concessions is a system that has rightly been criticised as opaque, that it produces corruption and complexity and leads to a systematic breach of public interest. In fact, we all remember in the recent past that it has led to numerous contracts at a disproportionate cost to the Greek people. Also, this bill comes precisely to regulate these guarantees of transparency, combating fraud, conflict of interest, cosmopolitanism and corruption. It also regulates the public interest very well. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will say here - and I shall end, Mr President - that there is a clear blockade of tenderers, since they are found to be using illegal practices or unfair means to distort competition or affect the outcome of the award procedure. Publicity and information are also being strengthened through the electronic register of public contracts, which, on the one hand, is a tool for the publication of concessions, facilitates entrepreneurs to have better opportunities and, on the other, helps to obtain an electronic database on concession contracts and, therefore, will be a key tool for making use of them as an export of reliable statistics. Finally, I would like to focus on the latest innovatory element of my speech in this bill, which concerns achieving the best relationship between costs and quality, namely, dealing with investment delays due to expropriation of environmental authorisations and archaeological research. All those who are involved and on this subject have understood that contracts and projects which could not be implemented were approved, precisely because all the above authorisations for environmental approval and archaeological research were pending. We have wasted as a country millions of euros for these investments. So this bill does not approve contracts, which cannot be started unless the necessary expropriations have been made and have not been...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u220	Finish, Mrs. Theleritis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u221	I'm done. For the first time, then, this is what happens. In fact, more innovations are needed, such as technical competence, etc. All this comes to address the paths of the lack of a regulatory framework for concessions in our country, creates a new and secure, integrated regulatory framework that will allow healthy and open competition, will go ahead with national development and protect the national interest, giving the social dimension, transparency and legality of concessions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u222	Mr Stathakis has the floor for some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u223	I'm making legislative improvements, which are all verbal. Some of them were spotted by colleagues. There's nothing essential. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u224	Mrs Chrysovelloni has the floor for two amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u225	Finally, for a short time, these two amendments have already been incorporated into the draft law. But since they are of wider interest, I would like to say two words. In Amendment No 573, with the proposed regulation, as we have said in committee, an information system is being set up in the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks to computerise all the functions and procedures of schools and training centres authorised by the competent transport and communications services of the regions of the country. In this way, savings of human resources and resources are achieved, simplification of procedures, reduction of bureaucracy, optimisation of the work of the auditing mechanisms, which now have real-time access to operational schools, transparency and reliability in the education programmes and the planning of the examinations of candidate drivers and drivers, in addition, an authorised provision is provided for the imposition of penalties in cases of non-compliance. All this concerns paragraph 1 of this amendment. The second paragraph defines in general the incompatibility of the occupation of trainer of candidates as civil servants, legal persons governed by public law and the general public sector, as well as those pensioners. This amendment removes chronic doubts and misinterpretations, which had caused too much confusion in the administration's services and gradually led to the circumvention of the law. Transitional arrangements are made for the training of candidate civil servants who were already licensed and who are given a period of two months so that they can comply with the new data. This is the one. Let's go to the other, which is also very interested in people, 574, which concerns the IMIs, the secondary medical committees. The proposed provision therefore amends the procedure for the medical examination of candidates and drivers so that the procedure can be normalised and problems created as a result of the closure of secondary medical committees. In particular, medical examination of candidates' guides and guides is possible for doctors in state hospitals, state health centres in the context of their full-time operation, as well as for individuals. Therefore, the setting-up of secondary medical committees by the communications services of the regions of the country is abrogated. In this way, we will be able to address the problem of waiting for about 12 thousand candidates and drivers and will be able to serve citizens more quickly and more fully because of the full-time operation and state health care establishments and private individuals. Finally - and I close - the relevant Ministers for Finance, Infrastructure, Transport and Networks and Health are authorised by a joint ministerial decision which they will adopt to determine the fees of doctors involved in nursing establishments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u226	Mr Alexiadis has the floor for a short time on a similar procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I shall refer to the amendment with a general number of 620 and a special number of 69 with which we make two regulations. The first arrangement is the concession in the Attica region to the Phalic bay of four hundred eighty-seven thousand three hundred and ninety-three square meters, without consideration for for forty years for recovery, management and exploitation. It is the area designated by Law 3342/2005 and there is an attached diagram of the area. We are resolving a huge issue in the region, giving this region a better use of it. The second article, the concession for thirty years without consideration to the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy of 730 square meters to cover the housing needs of the Port Authority of Symposium of Dodecanese Prefecture. It is two other proof that we have done so far to make use of public property, as the government means. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, too. Mr Evangelos Bassiakos has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are discussing the draft law aimed at harmonising national legislation with the European directive in relation to the award of concessions. In Part 1, reference shall be made to the award and performance of contracts for the concession of works and services by contracting authorities and bodies. Reference is made to the methodology for calculating the estimated value of concessions, to the applicable exemptions for contracts awarded by authorities and bodies. Subsequently, in the second part, reference is made to general rules for the award of concessions, the general principles governing the rules and procedural guarantees, the electronic availability of tenders and various other relevant issues, which cover the European framework, which must be integrated and not always set out for the non-incorporation of Community directives, as our obligation. The new Republic, as our rapporteur has said, is voting in principle. I think that it is in the positive direction of any integration process, particularly in these very critical issues. This allows the public administration to become attractive to foreign investors while ensuring the protection of the public interest. I would like to remind you that the PPP procedures began with Law 3389/2005 in Greece. Thus, twenty-three projects amounting to 2.8 billion have been carried out since then and have been held in the Interministerial Committee for another ten five new projects totalling 1.8 billion. Thus, the institution of concessions and PPPs has helped to develop greatly in view of the economic crisis and difficulties, in order to give the concessionaire the opportunity to carry out the project in return, while the State has no risk to the execution of the project, but also to the operation of the project. On this occasion, I should like to refer to three issues relating to the draft law. These concern the construction of the Elefsina - Thebes - Material motorway, the process of which began in 2012, but the competition was cancelled in June 2015. A second issue concerns the Elefsina - Thebes rail link to facilitate the movement of goods from the Triumph primarily. A third issue, which concerns us in Boeotia in particular, is the huge problem of the traffic burden and its diversion on the side secondary roads and network in the area of Boeotia with very adverse consequences, due to the traffic burden and accidents, particularly because the specifications of the secondary side road network are not the right ones, in particular in relation to the traffic in Danish foreign countries. On the first point, I would like to refer to my relevant question and to Mr Spirtzi's answer from time to time, that there is authorisation to conduct a public international competition in the process of competitive dialogue on the award of a concession contract: Study, construction, financing, operation, maintenance and operation of the project 'Eleusina - Thebes - Material'. As I said before, this competition was cancelled on 16-6-2015, with the reasoning contained in the written reply of Minister Spirtzi. But then, in the same response, there is a positive perspective. There is a reference to the evolution of the new Athens Regulatory Plan. There it is stated that the Elefsina - Komvos of Agios Lucas - Thebes - Material will be the new motorway, which will contribute, as described in the layout, to reducing the time distances on the PATHE axis, will unload the long-distance avenue and the Athens - Lamias motorway in the Athens - Material department of Athens in terms of traffic and environmental. A rough survey has shown that a distance of 65 km will be won if this diversion takes place. The distance Eleusina - Metamorphosis is about 27.5 km and the distance Metamorphosis - Thebes is another 80 km. There is a total distance of 108 km, while the new network from Elefsina to Alice will reach 50 km: 43 to Thebe and 50 to Alice. You realise that a 65 km difference is very important, a very important comparative advantage for building this very important project, which will help divert the traffic burden from western Greece as a whole, from the Peloponnese, etc., from those in Elefsina to central and northern Greece and vice versa. This will obviously become more necessary if we go beyond the economic crisis, when the road load, too, and rail, will rise vertically. I would like to tell you that this road used to be referred to as 'Mexa Road'. There was a engraving through Kithyron that would speed up the distance and facilitate transport bypass. Referring to the question of railway coverage, for which there is a positive outlook, in accordance with the written answer and the latest statements by Mr Spirtzis and the Government, in the Thriasian Field and in the freight centre there will be a great deal of movement and great needs, which will multiply the volume of transported material and goods, which will be added to the movement of suburban and passenger traffic. Since 2018, the high pressure is therefore expected, due to the traffic burden, for the construction of a railway link, which appears to be encouraged by the relevant body, the OSE. I would like to stress that for our region it is very important to strengthen this activity, which includes trafficking and the work of the Triasios freight centre, but also with the general effort to bring products, which are processed or printed in our country from other regions. In conclusion, I would like to make a little mention of the government proclamation that there will be a curfew on the side of Boeotia, due to the increase in tolls, which, as I have said before, burdened you with this network. There is a government proclamation that there will be a ban on at least large Danish, large vehicles, precisely because the network does not have the specifications - they are subtle, they have speeds, etc. - there are many traffic problems and accidents caused by cars which are not able to move on this network and the urban fabric. There is, therefore, an announcement from Mr Spirtzi in particular, but which, despite so many months' time, has not been implemented. So I repeat this as a major issue in the region, as a request from the region, in line with the government announcements, and I look forward to the rapid activation and implementation of this government proclamation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, too. Until Mr. Kegeroglu arrives, I'll make an announcement. Ladies and gentlemen, the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance "Amendment of the n. 4099/2012/A ́250 (incorporation into national legislation of Directive 2014/91/EU/L257) and other provisions.’; Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, while Mr Spirtzis and Mr Stathakis and Mr Alexiadis, the speaker, Mr Saridis, have said twice the word'shock' for specific things. You didn't answer him. If I say the same things, maybe in different words, I don't think you're gonna answer me. Indeed, last night a bill of enormous volume but also important issues came and it is being discussed in committee this morning. What has been said is a reality. What did I notice? That SYRIZA's rapporteur has said them well because of a profession, of course, because I think he is professionally involved in renewable energy sources, but also because he had internal information before the bill was tabled, something that others did not have. The others were looking for the provisions by the time they were supposed to talk. I say this because it is precisely the printing of what is going to happen with the system, which was approved by the previous bill, study - construction and generalisation. The generalization of the design-manufacturing system is the greenhouse of interface. And it's not just about the current government. It will be about all those who have to do business with this system. That is precisely the role of internal information. She can only have one or two or I don't know who. If we do not have internal information, of course, it could also be a worthwhile process. However, that is not guaranteed by anyone. As no one guarantees it, and you have to prove it every time that you're not only honest, but you have to look. In other words, now Mr Spirjis has a problem: with his partition on the Patras to Tower highway and as soon as he took three contractors on a continuous basis, I think he is also his best man, he cannot prove that he is honest. He's got that problem. So, in order to protect the political leaders themselves, we really need to see how we establish procedures. This is also about the current framework. I shall close my position on this and I shall come to two amendments which have been tabled. One concerns the way in which clearers are recruited to the agencies headed by the Ministry, etc. You copy a bad procedure initiated by the Ministry of Health. Already the prosecutor's intervention and arrest of the commander of the Trikala Hospital are the result of being a rough legalization. It does not guarantee the decision-makers. And here may have decided justly, it might have been right for the commander to decide. It was found, however, iron bundle. Why not recommend the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reform, which is responsible, a general provision concerning all ministries on this matter? Why does each Ministry come in and legislate a card by way of derogation and in excess of provisions relating to the AACC? That is a big question. Why are we going to the early A.S.S.A.S.A. era? You need to see these, you need to withdraw this amendment and the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reform will come with a regulation, which will cover all the public services and agencies on this issue, which I would say is that the purpose of the legislation does not find many opposers. The purpose of the legislation is, of course, and there is evidence to be acceptable to everyone. The process, however, which is being introduced runs counter to the objective itself. The second amendment, which I would like to talk about, is the tightening up of the fines for service stations. I would like to say that the full implementation of the input-output system is still far from complete, so that there is control. The observation we make is that fines are strict, okay, but they only concern the final stage, only the retailer. Aren't there any other stages of traffic ahead? Aren't there any trading, wholesale, refineries? I think that the regulation should be extended to all stages of the movement and marketing of fuels so that intervention can be completed. I now come to the third amendment, which I would like to talk about, which is the amendment tabled by the Democratic Incorporation and not just by Mr Maniotis. He was told by the Minister that he was filed by Mr. Maniatis. I would clarify that Mr. Maniatis is in charge, because he is the rapporteur in the bill. It is very serious why we are all signing it and being tabled for the sixth time, because it concerns the huge issue of the operation of the ELGA. I must tell you, Minister, that it is not your direct responsibility, but it must be accepted. Because of the increased damage we have to produce this year, and because of the weather phenomena that have led to the fires and damage to plant and animal capital and production, tens of thousands of untreated declarations of damage have been accumulated, because the government has changed its system to a precedent for the movement of assessors. I will only give you one example. It has set a limit of sixty days on the appreciable sixty exits from three hundred a year. It was a hundred and twenty for plant production and a hundred fifty for animal production and it did sixty. But the other day, you brought a provision, which you released sixty for the guardians of certain ministers, and it makes sense that, when there is mobility to the ministers, they must have the possibility of mobility and their security. Is there no sensitivity here to seeing that we have to deal with it? They are the workers' clubs in ELGA from the central club to the workers at each regional bar under this provision. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm going to need some more time, Mr. President, and I'm closing. I'm going to present you with the papers of the Works Association, both here and here, the main club, and Heraklion. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I visited ELGA's regional store. All the workers right now have a question mark. Is it by chance that the political leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development, which refuses to regulate this issue, is it by chance that farmers too are not harmed, but, above all, that the agency is not harmed? Is it a matter of isolation or is there a more general plan to depreciate the ELGA? As far as I'm concerned, she's individual. I don't want to think it's anything else. But you need to see it immediately. The tens of thousands of uncontrolled cases are not only at the expense of farmers, but also at the expense of the organisation and the systems proposed are more costly. Car rental, time rent, all of this costs more. If, then, the government wants to move on to something else, a study is required to do so. It must now extend the old regime for a period of time, as was done with the examiners of driving licences and extended until 31/12/2017. In this time, let's see if he can find a better system to do it. However, the system of assessment of ELGA cannot have been completed and the organisation inactivated by a whim of the political leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u232	Please, Mr. Kegeroglu, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u233	It is the lightest thing I can think of, because otherwise we need to pay attention to the management of the Agency and the political leadership of the PSC. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u234	Mrs. Big Housekeeper, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President-in-Office, taking on the occasion of my colleague, who referred to fires and damages, I wanted to say that we are currently experiencing a great disaster in northern Evia. Forest land is destroyed. The fire has reached the beach, from what we've seen. A place of infinite good devastated. The county's in emergency. All we can congratulate is the Fire Corps, the Army that took part, the volunteers and the residents. We must at least thank them for their efforts and see how this state can adopt more stringent laws for those who have an interest in setting fires either deliberately or unwillingly. This disaster, which has arisen, like the catastrophe in Chios, is not repaired. It'll be thousands of years. A tree to become and become a forest takes years and years. It can't be from one day to the next. It's ruined from one day to another, it doesn't happen from one day to the next. With regard to the bill, before us, Mr Ministers, the scourge of the process of drafting public contracts is one of the greatest that has been tormenting Greece for decades. The average Greek, as you know, has identified the issue of public procurement with scandalous and opaque procedures. Some cases have come to justice. But I imagine many people have not even seen the light of publicity. Citizens consider that in Greece the part of public procurement and the concession of public works is an excuse for a great deal of fascism between politicians and businessmen. So on our own we should have put in a proper legislative framework to disappear or even drastically restrict such illegality. Unfortunately, once again, there was no such initiative. We didn't hit corruption on our own. On the contrary, yesterday and today, we are voting on two European Union directives on this issue and we are still monitoring developments from a distance. In fact, given today's directive, which bears the date of 2014, which comes hand-in-hand in 2016 - we are again late - it is very sad what is happening in our country. The world demands that the phenomena of opacity be stopped in the public sector and that, at last, this popular demand should be made to do so. You're the first time left. The two other governments weren't that far left. At least apply it if you can. The bill relates to the implementation of a European directive, like yesterday's bill. There is not much room for response from a preamble. However, some comments have to be made. In the Central Association, we consider it essential to make use of public wealth as a priority. The harmonisation of Greek law with European law is imperative and this is not only typical, but also essentially the case. Given that we are in budgetary stability and are seeking a quick exit from the economic recession, transparency, awarding and execution of concessions, avoiding distortions and unequal treatment phenomena should be the first priority for the legislative work. It is regrettable once again that the government has slipped out and that we are relying on our adaptation to a European directive in order to institutionalise the absolutely self-evident that we should have institutionalised on our own. In view of yesterday's vote in favour of the bill, and in addition to today's debate, and also the Greek provisions, which are amended or repealed, we reiterate that we consider it necessary to integrate all the provisions into a code. I would like to make a comment on the special report, Rule 75(2). 3 of the Constitution, which accompanies the bill. It is stated in particular that the draft law will give rise to a financial burden on the recruitment of independent auditors and on the payment of remuneration to members of the Committee of Experts, on the out-of-court resolution of any disputes that may arise. I would not comment on this if the amount in the report of the General Accounting Office of the State mentioned the amount, but the amount is not even mentioned. And I am not saying that we should not implement and we do not have to implement this bill. I think, however, that we should have had an opinion at least of the size of the imminent expenditure, with which the state budget will be charged. There's no mention of how much this will cost. In conclusion, the proper execution of public contracts is at least a matter of priority for the Union of Centres. And the implementation of European legislation, which is now being incorporated into Greek reality, is that it will give a little impetus to transparency and to the development of the economic sizes that address the issues of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, too, for keeping time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u237	Mr President, I would like the floor on an amendment that we received a moment ago half an hour ago in the middle of the sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u238	We will listen to Mr Alexiadis. Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with this amendment we are resolving a problem created by developments in HISPIA. On the basis of these developments, a liquidation should take place in July, the first instalment paid in August and all that we said. With the provisions adopted, the deadline of 29 July for amendments to the computer files that we had in E9 is no longer meaningful. We now give the possibility with this amendment for citizens to amend until 30 November 2016 - because in many cases they have to go to tax, have a personal presence - the elements in the E9, which are related to their real estate, and have reduced fines, increases and additional taxes in force until 29 July. With this amendment, we are prolonging 50% of fines, additional taxes, etc. Regulation (EEC) No 4064/89, as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No 4064/89, is hereby amended as follows: On this occasion, we call on the citizens, because they will soon be cleared up and the liquidators will be put up, brought in whenever they can check and modify the data in the E9 declarations, because it will be unfair to do so afterwards and have additional taxes, hardships, etc. It is quite simple, therefore, that this amendment extends from 29 July to 30 November, the possibility for citizens to amend what they had declared in E9.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u240	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u241	Mr President, will you give me the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u242	Here you go, Mr. Metarakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u243	Mr President, I am taking the floor now, before my dentistry, because the Minister may not be able to remain until the afternoon when the vote on this amendment is to end. We do not disagree with the essence of what you say. However, the deadline of 29 July was imposed by Article 51 of Law 3289/2016, which you legislated. You chose the deadline. This deadline has been over for a week. And you want to tell us that this morning the Treasury woke up, the Treasury took over that this deadline for six days and ran fast - quickly to bring an amendment in time, while we are at the end of the meeting. This is an example of a bad legacy! Mr President, I will say one more word and you know that I am always brief. I want to say one more thing because the Minister is going to leave. I know she won't stay until afternoon. You referred to the amendment under number 620/69, which you said you were making better use of public property by granting the Falitic bay in the Attica region. I will talk to you again about the substance of the matter. Your Government repealed by law of 2015 the special-purpose company that existed to exploit the coastal front of Attica. That is your right. So you took the land to ETA, then the land went to the superstate. Then, with an amendment of MPs, who came at the last minute, he went to the Ministry of Justice. This has been withdrawn, and now with a new amendment it goes to the Attica Region. There was a plan to get into the NSRF, with a specific study that has been paid, to make the park there. Is this the government's proposal still in place? Is this park going to happen? Is it in the ESRB, or is it just every ten days we bring an amendment, take the 'black' area and lose two years and where there would be a magnificent park across from the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, will we have nothing at the end? Has it been planned in the NRP, Minister, the cost of this park?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u244	All right, Mr. Metarakis, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u245	Mr President, will you give me a minute to speak on the same subject?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u246	Since the Minister is going to leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u247	How do you know he's leaving, Mr. Metarakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u248	He can't stay and I respect it. It's not an expedition. I don't say it in a bad way. I'm not saying that negatively, he's leaving.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u249	Here, Mr. Maniatis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u250	I would like to ask the following question, Minister. Since you were absent at my location, I asked the following questions about the area allocated to the Region of Attica. First, with 3.3m euros, the Stavros Niarchos Foundation financed the entire renewal and promotion study of the whole region. Secondly, in July 2014 we approved the Strategic Environmental Impact Study and incorporated all the projects planned in the new Athens-Attica Regulatory Plan. The assessment of the projects required throughout the coastal front is of the order of EUR 200 million. I would therefore ask you to reply to me from now on: Either the government considers that the current owner and manager of the area, the excess, will not take advantage of the extent, as the government says, but sell it, or thinks it is better to go to the region, but we clearly believe that the necessary money should be made to ensure that this area does not remain wastewater. I would very much like to hear your opinion, that, that is, you have led to this decision. Much more so, I asked one more question: why do we not include the municipalities that are adjacent or to whom this area belongs, so that we can have a set of self-government bodies that we are really going to use?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u251	All right, Mr. Maniot.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u252	I can sum up, Mr President. First, does the superstition do or doesn't it? Secondly, have we planned with the concession and the corresponding funds for the use of the space with the specific projects envisaged by the study of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation and we have approved by a Presidential Decree and a Strategic Environmental Impact Study? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u253	Can I answer that, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u254	It has become a new issue, Mr President. The government filed a question about the Faliro.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u255	The point is, he's going to the district. I am not allowed to speak as President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u256	The government chooses these issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u257	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u258	Very briefly and without any desire to create a new cycle of controversy, because otherwise it is the subject of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u259	Then drop it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u260	If you do not want an extension and the fines remain, we should withdraw it. As far as the fines for HICP were concerned, there was a design for HICPIA, which for certain reasons could not be developed. For this reason, we are extending the deadline from 29 July to 30 November, so that the citizens are not fined. Right now, if you go in and make a modification to E9, you'll see that he's getting a fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u261	You didn't know about it on Friday? That's the question!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u262	Mr. Metarakis, you were given the floor out of procedure. Until when do you want to recycle this conversation?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u263	If we don't have a dialogue here...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u264	Tell me, until when?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u265	As long as the government makes amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u266	Please, you don't have the floor. Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u267	A word about delaying and what we should have done. We had to abolish all the ENPIA, for example. Let's get out of here sometime. Shall we open this conversation now? Let's not open it here. Let's talk about this particular matter. We are currently allowing citizens to make amendments without paying fines, additional taxes or surcharges. One is that. In relation to the fascist bay, it is clear that the government's policy on the use of public property is very clear. It seemed what we did in the building of the KERANIS plant, what we did with the Wireless at Agios Dimitrios, what we do here, what we do in the refugee apartments on Alexandra Avenue, etc. It's our responsibility, the Treasury of Finance, to exploit public property. Of course, we are making this move to make better use of this space. If there are any views that this should be done by the superstate or by any other place, they should be heard. The government, however, in consultation and in dialogue with the Region - we are not blackmailing the region - has certainly guaranteed both resources and made better use, as the amendment says, of this particular area. There's no dark spot or anything else. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u268	Mr. Karastasis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u269	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a draft law which refers to a kind of public procurement that has been set up to the Greek people in a bad manner. They were identified as tolls on the national roads and were regarded as privileged for a small group of contractors, whose practice differs slightly from that of cartels. Unfortunately, to date, the lack of relevant legislation, particularly in our country, along with the exclusion of concessions from the scope of the European directives, has enabled the various concessions to be ratified by reference to different laws each time. Ladies and gentlemen, was there an institutional framework for concessions? Oh, no. Why did each project come out of a separate bill to ensure that it works and above all to secure the contractors? I think that examples such as the unacceptable 2007 contracts over the Suffle era, as well as the unacceptable 2013 revisions, during the Chrysochide era, supported only business interests. If you look at the recitals of these laws, you will see that they played an important role in reviewing contracts because they lost, that is, they did not benefit the concessionaires. I will give you some examples of what contracts these were. Do you know that in 2007 the contracts predicted that expropriations would be made in four months? Even today in the E65 there are no primary decisions. Do you know that they predicted that the archaeological studies would be carried out in five, six months? They're not finished yet. Of course, we need to keep something else: the only thing that has been observed in these agreements, apart from what has served the concessionaires, has been tolls, for which the situation of the Greek people has in no way been taken into account. I'm going to tell you something else: This high toll procedure what it created? It has created a movement from the secondary national road network, with what this means - and for its maintenance and all - but also from the side road network, from which crossing is prohibited because it must serve the side road traffic. This resulted in the insecurity of the legal regime that regulates the award procedures and, as always, when similar cases are treated with different legal bases and, where appropriate, the specificity of the terms and procedures, left room for the actions and behaviour involved that gave the people the unfavourable views that I have mentioned. It must not, however, escape our attention that concessions are the right instrument, through which public bodies can make use of the experience and know-how of the private sector for the purpose of efficient provision to citizens of high quality services and works. Taking into account the contribution made by concessions to the development of strategic infrastructure and services, but also to the promotion of innovation, it is certain that we cannot and should not demolish them from the reality of the country's public works. The proposed draft law harmonises Greek legislation with Directive 23/2014 and national rules are adopted in implementing directives. The aim is to create a single and full legislative framework for regulating the award and performance of concessions. This legislative framework, I believe, will be an important tool for realising public investment and turning the negative economic climate. It will also contribute crucially to the creation of business opportunities. It will support the country's effort to return to economic growth and strengthen employment through the creation of new jobs. Finally, public administration will have a new, uniform, modern and many innovative legal instrument to safeguard the public interest. Acknowledging the specificities of this category of contracts, both in terms of awarding and implementing, and in particular in terms of their financing, the arrangements introduced today I consider that they ensure rapid, effective and legitimate protection and resolution of disputes in the field of concessions. They clearly guarantee transparency and equal treatment. They prevent suspicious transactions. They promote genuine, healthy and free competition. They shall ensure the best cost and quality relationship and shall guarantee the prevention and repression of corruption in the conclusion and execution of such contracts. It is worth noting that mixed contracts have been dealt with, including projects in the classic concept of the term. It is foreseen that the current legal regime is determined on the basis of the main subject-matter of the contract and for any doubt as to it that the Technical Council for Public Works of the General Secretariat for Infrastructure of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks is appointed. For the first time, the detailed budget of the concession project is included in the contractual issues to deal with problems in illustrating the situation, the development of a project. For the first time also, the financial model includes social indicators and criteria based on the economic conditions in our country at the time of their formation, for economic development and for the protection of vulnerable and vulnerable social groups. Finally, there is a clear and precise definition of the conditions that ensure healthy economic competition in the event of concessions between public bodies, taking into account the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. We therefore have in front of us, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a bill aimed at and I believe that it achieves the establishment of a separate, uniform and uniform regulatory framework for concessions, in accordance with international legislative standards and best practices, in order to address the distortions of the past. Just yesterday we voted for a huge piece of legislation on public procurement for studies, works, supplies and services, except, of course, for concessions. What activities will be chosen to be carried out in one way or another is a privilege, but also a responsibility of the public authority, which must be exercised in the light of the public interest. However, a common component must be the targeting of public money for actions and projects which are a direct need for the whole of society. It is time and because of the economic crisis, which, if anything, has made us wiser, to leave aside the pharaonic-type and sized projects that have dominated our thinking and practice over the past decade. Not projects for projects, but for the social whole, for the balanced development of every corner of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, too. Mr Jason Fotillas, Parliamentary Representative of the River, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all a little comment on the current situation, because the situation has now escaped every limit on the security of our citizens, with our country being divided internationally. I will not speak in detail about the unacceptables that have been made in Thessaloniki these days, with the invasion of dissidents even in the area of worship, as well as the unacceptable occupations of public and private spaces and the unexplained statements of 'normalisation' of the occupations or comparison of them with terrorist acts. I am impressed that the excellent announcement of the Holy Synod was required, so that the Minister of Education and Religion, together with the Minister of Justice, would make a "popular" announcement of condemnation of the infamous. An incident which shows dissolution in the services of the State is this. The leadership of EL.AS. He was looking for the source of the secret document of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the attack with paints of the so-called Ruvik anarchist group in the Turkish Embassy. Finally, it turned out that the document had been included by EL.AS. the official documents of the case-file. How a classified document was found in court and from there on the hands of anarchist group is worthy of wonder. What else can we understand from this fact? That the country seems to be a clear vine that breaks diplomatically and seems to be governed and governed by amateurs. Now in the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not surprising for us that the urgent procedure for the two draft laws, yesterday's and today's urgency and tomorrow's urgency, which incorporate Community directives, should be chosen. Unfortunately, it is the customary practice of the Tsipras - Kampi government to bring sanctions to the parliament for international conventions, along with dozens of pages of amendments which are irrelevant to the draft legislation under discussion. The deadline for transposition of today's Community directive was until 18 April 2016 and is therefore introduced for incorporation into Greek law at a relative delay, but this delay concerns only the government, not Parliament. But if, in such serious legislation with thousands of pages, there is no in-depth study and treatment of all the issues, failures can be caused, which is then difficult to restore, that is, when Members end up trying to assimilate many times a thousand and two thousand pages, as was done in this bill in a few hours' time. All contracts relate to public works, concession contracts and supplies and account for 50% of public actions amounting to 10% -15% of Gross Domestic Product. Therefore, we are discussing an extremely important intervention in the economic situation of the country which has in the past caused so many problems in the economic and political life of the country. Therefore, sanctions have become urgent, because you have not done your job properly, as you should. The current bill concerns, as other speakers have said, the incorporation of Directive 2014/23 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the award of concession contracts which includes the known partnerships to the Government of SYRIZA, PPP, between the public and private sectors, denounced by SYRIZA in the past. But today as a government it comes - and it is, of course, a positive development - and it incorporates developments in European law, which fortunately exist to show us the right way in this area too. In fact, for the PPPs, there was also a law passed since 2005, n.3389, which had led to the implementation of important projects. Concessions, unlike other public contracts, have not been regulated in detail by European Union law. The current government has, on purpose, delayed implementing the previous law, Law No.4281/2014, which existed before and had voted itself. There are now arrangements, of course, in the right direction, concerning transparency by making public, simplifying and speeding up procedures through the use of electronic means and standardising the texts of the notice and the documents submitted. Rules, criteria and a guarantee procedure shall be laid down both in the award stage and in the performance phase. That is why we, too, are voting in favour of the 2014/23, although we have objections to a number of articles, particularly those which do not concern the directive, such as Article 67, on which our special speaker has been placed in this regard. As far as the amendments are concerned, there is once again the fact that amendments to international conventions and Community directives and amendments which, in particular, provide for an extension or new recruitment. As regards, for example, the amendment to recruitment for ODA and defence systems, he also spoke to Mr Bakoyannis earlier. He correctly raised the issue of recruitment priorities, when hospitals, for example, are at a borderline. But do we also want you to explain how we can proceed with new recruitment of skilled personnel for up to five years, with no limits at all, when in the other defence system company, in the EBO of Egypt, workers are still waiting for the qualifications of the last two months, in June and July? Not to mention Mr. Kammenos's promises to the local society of Egypt on the alleged creation of a line for the production of Russian weapons with the NAT seal. Only a summer night dream could look like this! Finally, stop feeding without a reaction, especially in societies that are acutely faced with the problem of unemployment. In the ministerial amendment on the recruitment of cleaners to hospitals, I think the whole philosophy of your policy is reflected. You are first hired cleaners with individual works contracts, i.e. with no rights and, of course, with no derogation from the existing provisions. This is the first time individual employment contracts without rights. When the courts tell you that you are illegal, through Mr. Polakis, you are attacking justice. Only when justice makes a decision for you is independent. When she tells you you're illegal, you're denounced. A male principle, that would be what Mr Paulakis would like. We won't let him! Finally, I am not convinced that this concession is being made for the benefit of the citizens, which would certainly not find us in any disagreement at all, if that were really the case. From that point on, I have not understood what the exact extent is granted and on the basis of which topographics. I have a plan here. I asked five Members and no one could tell me where the plan is. You could have a regular topographic chart. There's in the papers. We've seen it. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, I am tired of asking you to act as a democratic government, respect the MPs and the citizens. But you'll tell me when there's no self-respect, how can I ask respect? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u272	And we thank you for the time economy. Mr. Ioannis Sarakiotis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u273	Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, following the vote in plenary yesterday on the draft law of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism on public works, supplies and services contracts, the other parallel, related and many supplementary bills, especially for the award and execution of concessions. As developed in the preparation of the draft law in the relevant legislators, it aims to harmonise the Greek legislation with Directive 2014/23 and to adopt national regulations, implementing the Directive, in order to create a single and comprehensive legislative framework for regulating the award and performance of concessions. First of all, as the rapporteur and the Ministers responsible have pointed out, there has so far been neither an institutional framework for concessions nor for public-private partnerships. It was a continuation of public works, which is why in most cases it came to the House to be ratified by law. They were not exactly public works and studies. It wasn't provisions. It was something in between. Therefore, this legislative initiative by the Government to adopt a coherent law, with uniform specific rules for the award and performance of concession contracts, specific content in contractual issues, financing issues, contracts which are always given in concessions. To date, the exclusion of concessions from the scope of the European Directives created insecurity regarding the legal regime governing its award procedures and left a great deal of margin for assessment in the national legislation of the Member States. Especially in our country, the lack of specific legislation has created a wide-ranging distorting field for ratification of concessions, each time based on different laws. This new legislation aims at the legal immunisation of these contracts, the resolution of problems encountered in the past, the collapse of the situation where the licensee specialises in the selection of terms and procedures. At the same time, arrangements are introduced for a substantive and procedural framework which ensures the rapid and effective protection and resolution of disputes in the field of concessions, taking into account the specificities and complexity of both the award procedures and the terms of the contractual framework governing their implementation. This ensures the pursuit of the main objectives of legislative intervention, i.e. the introduction of clear and effective framework regulations, ensuring maximum transparency and equal treatment, preventing transaction routes, promoting genuine and free competition, ensuring the best cost and quality relationship and ensuring the prevention and repression of corruption in the conclusion and execution of these contracts. In addition to the provisions of this directive, the draft law also incorporates national legislation, which introduce regulations complementary to those of the directive, or other matters which were deemed necessary to be safeguarded under the law, in view of the achievement of its objectives. Finally, when drawing up the draft law, there was special care to limit the number of delegated acts adopted, so that the adoption of each of them would not be a precondition for the application of the law. I also have to stand by the main innovations introduced by the current draft law, which is quite clear what is their aim and what they intend to heal. The detailed definition of the concept of the project is thus made clear in such a way that there is no ambiguity about what is precisely a project concession, which in the past has created many distortions about the correct application of the applicable rules. It shall avoid infringement or circumvention of the law in the event of mixed contracts including works. Where a contract includes elements which constitute a project within the meaning of this Article, the current legal regime shall be determined on the basis of the main subject-matter of the contract. In the event of doubt as to whether a contract concerns a project or service, which defines different technical terms and controls, it is the Public Works Council of the Ministry of Infrastructure's General Secretariat for Infrastructure. Third, the procedure for awarding a project concession cannot be initiated without the prior completion of the necessary expropriations and completion of the necessary investigations or archaeological work. Let us not forget how much billions have been allocated since Mr Soufflias began the famous concessions to date. Fourthly, for the first time, the detailed budget for the concession project is included in the contractual issues, in order to address problems in illustrating the situation in the development of a project. Apart from describing the object of the project, the detailed budget of the work required is now clear. In addition, for the first time the financial model includes social indicators and criteria, based on the economic conditions in force in the country at the time of its formation, for economic development and for the protection of vulnerable and vulnerable social groups. There is no provision for people with disabilities and there is no provision for permanent residents - even at the level of the Callicratic municipality - if there is no provision for the unemployed. Now that's what we're talking about. It was no longer tolerated that other ways, other sizes, variables, which can be used by the public - such as the time of the concession - could also be economically impossible to use these infrastructures in times of crisis. Turns of this type now they're pulling out. Taking into account the contribution of concessions to the development of strategic infrastructure and services and to the promotion of innovation, the proposed draft law will be an important tool for the implementation of public investments and for the conversion of the negative economic climate. The Greek legal order now acquires a single legislative framework incorporating Union law, the acquis communautaire and at the same time ensures the maximum public interest. For all these reasons, I too welcome this legislative initiative by the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u274	Mr George Karras, Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, Mr President. Today, then, we will talk about concessions. A lot has been said. Interesting. Positive. Critic. But nothing has been said: that concessions - and you will allow me to say this - are an invention of Greek antiquity. It is the one that moved the economy in ancient Greece. I will not give many examples. I will only give one of them: in the Lake of the West in Evia - history says, the oldest sources deliver it - there was a lot of mosquito near Eretria and the city was annoyed. A way had to be found to dry the lake and, if possible, to be attributed as a farmable land to farmers. They didn't have money, it seems, the Religors at the time, but they found another solution. They found capital, investor, we'd call him today. Maybe then his name was a sponsor. So he put the money, dried up the lake of West and granted it by the city of Eretria the exploitation of these fields by land rent. For historical reasons, I must say that the rent was in proportion to production and it was not money. So the Greeks had this invention. The Romans, who found the toll method, followed. They were also concession contracts, because tolls are also a public service. I take a jump very quickly and reach the Suez Canal, the Corinth Canal and the modern highways in Greece, which still trouble us if they are to end, they will not end, we are always looking to see if the accidents continue, if the danger is reduced on Corinth-Patra road. These are all issues which, of course, will not solve a piece of legislation. The current piece of legislation, as it comes down to now, is essentially a systematic regulation which is a conclusion of all European opinions so that there can be one single legislation. In principle, we have already said 'yes', for the reasons that concessions are always useful and more in countries where economic growth is not sufficient or in countries that lack own resources, as Greece today lacks with the need that they have created over the last 15 years to substantially mortgage public property. And when I say "suppose" I give it to the fullest extent of the word. I will not dwell on earlier legislation, I will only stay on Law No.4389, the recent law two months ago that the House voted for, where the so-called superstition was created, a Company for Participation of the Greek State, where what had been left is transferred, if it has not already been transferred. But what is being asked and is a crucial question, and in relation to today's bill, is that the superstition has two objectives. The first objective is to make use of public property 50% of debt to the European Union, and the second objective is that 50% should be made available for Greece's development. There, however, is a little bit of an issue - perhaps it is a big one, perhaps it is also a major one - in relation to the bill under discussion. The Participating Company does not belong to the wider public sector. The Participating Company is governed by private law purely and in its administration, in particular the Supervisory Board, the provisions of German law are applied, where the supervisory board of a public limited company is essentially entitled to veto. Therefore - I personally express - both yesterday's Public Procurement Act, Procurement, Work Services, and today's concession agreement law cannot be applied to those assets that will manage the so-called superstition, the Company of Greek Public Participants. The scope of this Law is therefore reduced. Let us hope that both yesterday and today's law will make it easier for the country to move forward. In relation to details of the articles of the law, I do not want to trouble anyone, because they have already been largely developed, both technically and I am talking about those provisions that we are taking in and transposing into the internal legal order of which we are adapting - and the other matters that are internal law. In conclusion, these two public works directives, which colleagues know, have left a wide scope for choice in domestic legislation. It was not exhaustive nor was it actually binding. They left the scope of choice in domestic law. It is a repetition of earlier regulations on public procurement, although the first time is systematic legislation on concessions. But it doesn't matter. Let's move on. We'll see her in the app. I have a slight reservation on legal protection, i.e. whether or not legal protection is differentiated to the concessionaire or the contracting authority in the Greek State. So will the procedural provisions which were adopted yesterday, which were more detailed, or will we stick to the general provisions relating to the referral made to an appeal or appeal - if I am not mistaken - be applied to the Greek courts, depending on whether the contract is private or administrative? That's another major problem. No one ever solved in 100% what Greece means to an administrative contract and what it means to a private contract, even if it comes from the same employer, the public. But it doesn't matter. We will not do a procedural lesson here or deal with case-law as it has been done. Unfortunately, however, a perhaps good bill gave the government an opportunity to repeat what has now become the norm in this Chamber. It is the large number of amendments, where - I have said before - the Heads of State or Government feel that they have a gentlemen's agreement with their colleagues and they must accept the unnecessary amendments brought by the other Ministers to return them to a next bill by the ministers who are serving today and are then accelerating. Gentlemen of the government, forgive me. When I say a gentlemen's deal, I don't say it with the best viewpoint. I say that it is a gentlemen's agreement that may also come from the wicked one, not to trouble the House - I do not think it is their intention - but they can take the vote on the House many times without understanding the House what the amendments relate to. A classic example is the Ministry's amendment to grant the Attica part of the coastal zone of the phantom bay. How much has this area been afflicted? How much has the world been afflicted there, the inhabitants of the coastal municipalities? How much - if you want - have we fooled them? For, on the one hand, the House has recently lived through this in the last few months - the beach volley is being granted. It seems to be a part of what is now being allocated to the Attica region. It's for court. What courtesy? For heavy criminal cases that last for months, where security measures must be strict, because accused persons are usually temporary prisoners. So there the MATs, cages, police forces, would be installed and access will eventually be banned. I was one of the first to react and a solution was finally given. Today, however, another solution is coming, which we do not know if it will be the best, the most contemplated one. What for? When, Minister, we raised the question of the conversion of the beach Volleyyards into courts, we dealt with many colleagues here, particularly from the second Athens - to see exactly what it is, how it could be addressed. We have heard views of mayors, local actors, ordinary citizens. They want a unique, free access to the beach, the right to use public space and the enjoyment of public space. Will this amendment be provided? It says that it is provided for use, management and exploitation. So I understand - and I have heard of the figures that can be made available for this purpose - but that we will probably also go to self-financing? Have the local municipalities been asked about development plan? The related Greek company - the government had accused her of being a sinful company - has been abolished. So we do not know today. Will it therefore have the purpose of enjoying the public space by the citizens not only of the coastal municipalities but of the entire Lefkanopedio? Or will this also be a speculation item, as we have already seen that the rest of the Greek is provided for speculation? There was another appealing proposal, which I have made, where I have spoken about a zone of economic interest, that is to say to create something similar to Monaco, that Greece can breathe. Today we are talking about giving it up and obviously the contract will be ratified. I have reservations, because I do not have the image, nor do I have the consent of the municipalities and local communities. Likewise, I don't have the image of what extent it's finally delivered. Mr. Fotellas has rightly observed it. It says: "You have brought a photocopy into a squeeze of the wider region" -1: 5000 the drawing - and the engineers of yours know it and we have a photosmoke in the Official Journal of the Government. I admit I can't figure out where it is, not to join a wider area, but to see it even with the chili, to see where it is. So our reservations about the amendment are those. We have another issue now with the extension of radio stations. I don't understand that. On the one hand, we call for order to be entered into the channels and on the other hand we say 'we give priority to the channels, but we leave the radios'. I do not understand what you are pursuing with her. I understand that the government was not aware of the ending of a deadline and had to extend it, such as the many deadlines which may be extended several times by weakness, disarmament or indifference of the government to resolve critical issues. Of course, on the subject of the amendment by all the Members of Parliament, Mrs Kozobol and Mrs Tlygoridou, yes, we will agree with her, but I will say something else. I was the first to table the amendment to remove the confiscations of the Elefsina Shipyard Company. So there - I will say it and let me be accused - a political wickedness has been played. It is assumed that a regulation which the previous regime has reiterated - my amendment has resolved - to put it back to the amendment by government MPs, to say 'we have resolved this topic'. Uh, no, gentlemen, I don't think we should move in this Chamber at this level. Moreover, I object to the amendment on the famous Financial Stability Fund that the government will no longer appoint, even temporarily, the members of the Executive Board. The excuse Mr Tsakalots gave to my question, forgive me, but it was very simplistic. He told me that they had no provision in the law to have alternate members and so there is a lack of assembly. But, on the last board of directors of the last limited capital company, 6,000 euros, a deputy manager will put it in. I therefore believe that I can conclude with these considerations, Mr President, and with our views on the articles in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u276	Thank you, too. Mr. Chogas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u277	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the answer to a previous speech by the Representative of the Centro Association is due. In my opinion, the criticisms made, unnecessarily and unrelentingly, have been very acute. It has turned against the government in characterisations such as the government must be ashamed of the legal practice because it is insulting democracy, that it is a torment to wickedness, and so forth, I would say, on a political basis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u278	Documented, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u279	We'll see if they're documented. You can answer it if you want. All of this in the sense of the concept of urgency and of the way in which this legislation is introduced, but also what is going on. This is an entirely unfounded position because it does not justify the reasons which the Minister has claimed if they are valid or unfounded. The concept of urgency is obviously legal, since it exists in law. So if the speaker of the Centroon wants to turn against the President of Parliament and the legislature who already has the order. The provision is existing and legal. It should therefore explain why the urgency procedure is unfounded. That would be real if the reasons put forward by the relevant Minister were unfounded. Against the words of the relevant Minister in no way has it turned. He has made a populist policy, with a sterile opposition structure and obviously is involved in a counterproductive parliamentary process. I think she was totally wrong, with a totally populist conception. As regards the draft law, this is a draft law concerning the award and execution of concessions and other services and adapting to Directive 2014/23 of the European Union. The draft law introduces for the first time a uniform and complete legislative framework for the award and enforcement of concessions for works and services. The promoted legislative initiative incorporates Directive 23 on the award of concessions and at the same time adopts national rules. The concession contracts are widespread forms of partnership between the public sector and private undertakings, which have proved to be extremely useful, especially in the implementation of infrastructure, where traditionally concession contracts are a permanent practice in building, technical works, roads, motorways, etc. Although concessions are used in areas of vital importance to the economy and growth, to date there has been no comprehensive legislative framework which regulates the award and execution process and the relevant provisions have been incomplete and dispersed. Increased investment needs combined with the need to save public resources make concessions a valuable tool for the growth of the economy and increase employment through private capital. In view of the specific nature of concession contracts and their differences in public procurement, in particular because of their financing, the new arrangements lay down the basic rules and the framework and provide the contracting authorities and bodies with the necessary, other than audited, flexibility to determine the individual conditions. In accordance with the provisions of this draft law, in the process of awarding concessions, contracting authorities shall treat economic operators equally and impartially and shall act in a transparent and proportionate manner. It shall be explicitly prohibited to act in a discriminatory manner and to provide information that may favour certain candidates at the expense of others. In the same context, they shall disclose the intention to award the concession by publishing a notice containing clear and complete conditions for the award and execution of all interested parties to be informed. They shall ensure that a sufficient number of candidates are involved in order to ensure effective competition and shall communicate the results of the procedure to all interested parties. In order to meet the requirements of publicity and transparency, the Central Electronic Contract Register shall be defined as a mandatory point of publication at national level of all stages of concessions, irrespective of their estimated value. The notices, contracts and amendments thereto shall be published and the contracting authorities shall provide the entity concerned with unlimited and complete electronic access to all general conditions for the performance of the award procedure. At the same time, the new legal framework is established with a view to simplifying and speeding up the procedures for awarding concessions. In particular, it is foreseen that contracting authorities may at first instance accept the submission of a qualitative selection questionnaire by the candidate economic operators, which includes a declaration that they fulfil the selection criteria and that they are not satisfied with the reasons for exclusion. Only if the tenderer is selected and before the conclusion of the contract is notified to submit all the supporting documents required to prove the statements and data submitted by the qualitative selection questionnaire. This widened competition and increased the participation of economic operators, while at the same time speeding up competition free from procedural and bureaucratic burdens. The concession contracts shall be awarded on the basis of objective criteria, taking into account the financial adequacy of economic operators, potential for growth and innovation in the public interest. As a result, in the process of selecting and evaluating candidates, the economic operator who has been convicted of illegal acts such as corruption, fraud, involvement in criminal organisation, money laundering, child labour and other forms of trafficking in human beings are excluded. In addition, it is excluded from the participation of the economic operator which has an express obligation to comply with the rules of environmental, social and labour law, or acting unfairly, with a view to distorting competition. This exclusion system seeks to shield the public interest and to select reliable contractors. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a moment, please, Mr President. In the context of social policy, and with a view to strengthening vulnerable and vulnerable groups, their social inclusion and ensuring equal opportunities for all, the new draft law enables contracting authorities to grant exclusive right to participate in procurement procedures for protected workshops, social cooperatives and social cooperatives to integrate in the context of protected employment programmes for persons with disabilities or disabled persons in the labour market. Ladies and gentlemen, the new draft law on concessions establishes a stable legal environment and ends the lack of legal certainty, which is due to the absence of clear provisions. The consolidation and homogeneity of the new rules create ground for investment in high-quality public services and infrastructure, strengthening the competitiveness, economic development and productive reconstruction of the country, which oblig us in the unconditional adoption of this draft law and the acceptance of its provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u281	Mr President, please speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u282	Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u283	Thank you. Mr Chogas referred to me in all respects, saying that last week, on amendments, and today, I have also tabled amendments to a populist policy and I have been involved in a counterproductive legislative process. So I think that my ten-month presence in the Chamber does not prove that. On the other hand, Mr Chogas wanted to justify my refusal and justify the ministers, for whom I have the right not to be convinced of the explanations they give, when questions about amendments are raised, Mr President. It's not just that, but I want to fill in something else. If they think I will not exercise - at least I - the unlimited right of vote, of opinion, which I have in this House and outside the House, then those who believe this thing must forget.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u284	All right, Mr. Carras. I believe you do what you do with dignity.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u285	I didn't mention to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u286	I'm not a populist, I'm not counterproductive.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u287	I didn't mention to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u288	You referred to me and said the speaker of the Central Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u289	I have not referred to you, Mr Saridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u290	Mr. Carras, it makes clear that he didn't refer to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u291	Excuse me then, but I'd just come down from the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u292	I referred to Mr Saridis, not to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u293	Oh, I don't know, but I just got off the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u294	So retrospectively, no staff. Mr. Davakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u295	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the feeling that Mr. Carras referred to Mr. Chogas, forging him over criticism...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u296	Don't play the staff again. We're moving on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u297	No, Mr President, I will continue on this matter. He referred to his personal reference to the amendments. Indeed - and this is an appeal to the Bureau and, above all, to the President of Parliament - in recent years there have been no bills. There are no principles on the bills we are going to talk about. There are bill pretexts to make amendments. We are debating amendments in this Chamber, ladies and gentlemen. It's like the Trojan Horse, who's getting an amendment from the inside. In all the bills, Mr Minister, there is no bill that is not in the hands of or without the rapporteurs to rule on unfamiliar amendments to them, regardless of the bill, with what this means for the terms of good legislature. Where else is this thing happening?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u298	The New Democracy...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u299	You and the New Democracy will always be involved and will lose power and you will not understand it. Mr Stathakis, we had reached a point where the tabling of amendments had been very much suspended and we now come to the practice of not having a bill without its amendments. I can tell you again: bills are now a pretext for amendments. All the bills that came. There's no start in the bills. There are only diffuse provisions that we are enacting to bring the amendments into line and to have every lamentable rapporteur runs from here and there, so that he can be informed of the amendments. That's really bad. There is no time to legislate to stand up to the issues raised by the amendments and I will also call on the Bureau of Parliament and all of you to see this very seriously and not to repeat this phenomenon. It is a pretext that we agree with the ratification of the Community directive. I believe that the method of building public works through the PPPs was a pioneering method, which created prospects for our country's construction work, for the creation of important motorways. It is the work of the Government of the New Democracy, when this case was first implemented, despite the great sufferings - and I agree that there have also been - which have to do with the bureaucracy and the unpreparedness of the Greek State to welcome such important interventions and I believe that this directive will greatly contribute to the treatment of the pathogens and phenomena which had braked the PPP projects. I would particularly like to mention the amendment tabled by Mr Vitsas, which concerns the capitalisation of the debts of the Greek Defence Systems and the possibility of EAB hiring for a longer period of staff. This amendment has been repeated many times in terms of both NSAs, the Hellenic Defence Systems and the NSA. In fact, a Member of Parliament speaks to you of an extra-department, whose defence industry was central to its objective and founder of the country's defence industry from 1974 to 1975, on Evangelos Averov, when EAW was a pioneering industry which started for a good prospects both in the air industry and in general in our defence industry. We have arrived after several decades in the fall today, through amendments - kissing life, having both ODA and OSH and coming with amendments - recesses to survive. Mrs Bakoyannis, who is quite rightly concerned about this amendment, has rightly raised the question and the indignation of a colleague, Mrs Bakoyannis, because there is a lack of transparency in the recruitment of staff. Where formal qualifications are to be exhausted, you can tell me how to register the essential qualifications for these people, or we will hire the wrong people on a sole basis that they belong to the governing party, as long as we do not have an APA, since we have no other kind of evaluation. Recently Mr. Kammenos announced the recruitment of six hundred OBAN - Rocky Reclassification Armed. Now this. We understand your co-pilot's agony to get back into the House to have a pillow. That's not gonna happen. You will not be the first party to this House, but that is what is left of you right now. What is very important is this particular amendment which, instead of solving problems, rather than providing us with a comprehensive strategy for our defence industry - not an amendment, a bill, I would say - is coming today to repeat the well-known: capitalisation of debts and extension of workers' contracts. Tell me what your defensive industry plan is. What have you carved for so long, a year and a half that you've been running for the defence industry? I do not want to refer to the statements made by your colleague Mr. Quiet to the NSA a year ago and what he said about the defence industry and the defence industry plan brought about by the Samara government a year and a half ago. You thought it was a sale. Today we are coming, Mr Stathakis, with this amendment - with reluctance, I say again - to give the kiss of life to the issues relating to the enormous problems of the defence industry. I'm not going to talk about the Kalashnikovs that will be built in Agios, the Kammenos announcements two months ago that he laughed at and the traditional goat. NATO country to build Kalashnikov without having permission from the company maker, without having anything! These are for young children. However, because I see Mr Spirtzi, who is also the rapporteur with you, I would like to ask him a question. Minister, do you know that the establishment of a service of the Greek State at the Ministry of National Defence, the famous MOMKA, has been passed in our Parliament for 15 days? This is a service of the Ministry of National Defence, which will build public projects financed by the State budget, namely from the General Staff's funds, the established funds of the General Staff of the Ministry of Defence. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a minute more, Mr President. I would like, because you have also served as President of the Greek Technical Chamber of Commerce, to have your seat on whether this is governed or contrary to Community legislation, and if today the Armed Forces can build public works - as Mr Defence Minister says - for which individuals will not be interested. In other words, we will have, as with the hot spot and the refugee, the Armed Forces to build what private construction companies deserve. I'd like your approach. In any case, because I speculate on what you are thinking, you should give your opinion to the Minister for National Defence and tell him that what he says cannot be done with the current situation in the country as regards the absorption of Community funds for public works, but also with the general institutional framework of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u300	Mr Ioannis Sahinides, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u301	Mr President, Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you have really confused us. But you do, but you do. A little while ago we heard the Minister, Mrs Chrysovelloni, talking about an amendment, and we were looking to see which amendment it was. It has been mentioned in Amendment No 573. As far as we understood from the content of the amendment, it concerned Amendment No 579/50. I say this to be corrected in the Minutes. It also referred to an amendment with number 583, which does not exist, but it corresponds to Amendment 584/51.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u302	They've been incorporated into the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u303	With regard to Amendment No 613/62, on the arrangements for RBM and RBM, for the recapitalisation of the non-currency guaranteed bonds of the two companies established after the split-up of the company Hellenic Defence Systems ABE by the Greek State, the possibility is given for the capitalisation of loans and outstanding bonds issued by the Greek State after the PSI. Finally, greater flexibility is allowed for ODA technical staff working with fixed-term contracts, with that duration being one year, with the possibility of renewing or extending until the end of the relevant programme or project. So since all governments have dismantled the Defence Industry and you have done nothing so far for the PSI, you now come, after the government's amendment, to give tax information to NSAs, to grant exemption from any tax, etc. You dismantle the defence industry, and now you're battling in order to be able to fail. However, this amendment regulates, in a way, issues relating to the functioning of the NSAs, as well as certain issues of work and staff. That is why we shall be saying 'the present' in this amendment. But let's get through to news. There are things that are not even mentioned within the Greek Parliament. The case concerning the Hellenic Statistical Office and its former President, Mr Georgios, will be reviewed by Marios Igos. The objective is the stricter prosecution of the case concerning the enlargement of the 2009 budget deficit, which led to Greece entering the support mechanism. If, ladies and gentlemen, the category of false attestation against the general public is hampered by the particularly high value of the crime, and if it is combined with the provisions of Law 1608/50 on abuses of the public, it is threatening to be sentenced to life imprisonment. It has not been heard by anyone these days in detail about the cuts we have in supplementary pensions. In the total of three hundred and twelve thousand pensioners, civil servants, workers in insurance funds, municipal officials, chemical engineers, biochemicals, private teachers, OTE employees, ELTA, ERT, staff former EBRD, personnel of the Agricultural Bank, firefighters and then follow-up in September with the police and the Armed Forces. Nor did we hear anyone mention the sale of the insurance company. ERGO, a German company, bought EUR 90.1 million at 100% of the company. The Agricultural Bank for 2015 registered premiums amounting to EUR 125 million, of which 91 million were general collateral. Do not forget that the current Piraeus bank had entered into a loan from the then Rural Bank and with this money it only bought the healthy part. Today he has come to the committee again. As has been rightly stated by many in here, what we are doing should not be called 'parliamentary control', but'modological' control, because we are indeed only dealing with amendments. An amendment was tabled to an unrelated bill to build the mosque in the Botanic, which will cost the Greek people EUR 946 000. Do you know how many problems would be solved with this money, Mr. Ministers, in the health system, as would the atrocious lines that have been cut off by airlines, whose costs were around 45 million? You said that, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u304	It was 47 million!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u305	All right, 47 million, close to 45 million. Money to be provided for 2016 - and here you give a basis - to non-governmental organisations to provide reception and hospitality services for asylum seekers and unaccompanied minors from third countries. The Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn and competitor, Mr. Kouzilos, has tabled a question and the answer - listen to the amounts! - on how much money is given for this purpose: For the Greek Red Cross 473,000 euros, for the ARSIS 452,000 euros, for the PRAKSIS 247,000 euros, for the "APOSOTOL" 134,000 euros, for the Hellenic Red Cross again EUR 247 000, for the ARSIS again EUR 368,000, for the "HLIAKTIDA" EUR 33,000, for the Youth and Lifelong Learning Foundation of EUR 302,000, for the "EKOSOSOSOS" 251,000 euros, for the Association of Minors of Children 63,000 euros, for METAction for Migration and Development 137,000 euros, for the "EKOSOPOSOS" again 380,000 euros. The total is 3,156,000! Money is there, but only for immigrants! I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Sahinides, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Also, yesterday and yesterday and today, the great-great leaders of the Committee of Inquiry have paralyzed the parade of the Committee of Inquiry. We have all watched in this Commission how these people, who are supposed to be in prestige, became human beings in front of Elias Cassidy's questions and avoided answering them. They gave answers with which they responded without actually answering, while speaking without speaking. In fact, with regard to Mr Bobola, who also has to do with today's bill, in the last regional elections when we had, as a People's Association, made the presence of our ballot in a central hotel in Thessaloniki, because I personally as candidate for Vice-Regional Pellas, mentioned this day that it would be forbidden to publish competitions in a provincial and local press, do you know what the result was? On the same day, Mr. Bobolas at "MEGA" had an excerpt from an interview on a local channel of Pella and the next day at "CYRICA NATION" he had a picture of mine on the front page with a red circle in the head and he said, "He is the instructor of all the Golden Dawn paramilitary camps". That's an honor to me. To understand which people you have in front of you! But what was the humiliation of the whole case? As for the Communist Party of Greece, which has been telling us for years that it has been fighting capital, the capital has come before them. What did they say? That we are not going to ask any of the businessmen at all. This is the Communist Party, and this is the Left. I left for the last time a "important event", where a group of enthusiastic para-state punks attacked and invaded during Sunday's Divine Operation at the Metropolitan Temple of Thessaloniki. This should concern you. Don't you wonder about the size of moral corruption that prevails in a piece of youth? Really, this disguised hypocrisy that holds you with your chosen sensitivity and humanism, where do you intend to reach? Are you creating a diversion? These cowards, then, attacked the priest who operated at that time, beat him, spit him out, threatened all the churchmen, who remember that mostly they were elderly people, told them they would be beaten, slaughtered and vandalized images. However, the Monomele Chamber of Commerce of Thessaloniki stated that there was no intention of exalting the space. I mean, the old people we saw in all the channels interviewing are liars and slanders. Why then did they not sue them for slander, as did the “false” priest? So all this was described by the President of the court as a 'important incident'. So it's a rhetorical question. If an old man from young people - and here I point out, not anti-unionist space - did exactly the same in a mosque or in a synagogue, for one week the channels, newspapers and aggregations all of you would say "neutral elements, fascist, Golden Dawn" and not a sample of political ideology. Here, then, we are concerned. Is there, ladies and gentlemen, any connection to the recent announcement by the Islamics, who just a few days ago, after the sad fact in France, have announced that their goals will be made by all the Christian churches, including the Greek Orthodox ones? Really, what is the relationship of the anti-democratic in Greece with the ISIS terrorists? What do we got? Exchanging cultural customs and customs? So take your homes to globalisation and your multiculturality. They don't fit in Greece! Of course, some voices of protest were heard about this 'important event'. However, at least the gentlemen of the New Democracy are not entitled to speak, because they have not yet done anything at all to crush, eliminate and destroy - according to their wishes - such violations of this kind. In fact, they are not entitled to speak since they speak of separation of a church - state. Conclusion? In order to be considered an important event in relation to the sick idealism that possesses you, it is clear that the victims should belong to another religion that racism, hatred and intolerance should have as victims of non-Greek, gay, Islamic, Jewish and left-wing victims. On the other hand, the Greeks, the straight ones, the Christians, the non-left and all those who do not agree with your political correctness can be at the disposal of every trans-national punk, of course with the certainty that there will be no criminal consequence. In closing, because many well-informed people will speak and say that the Golden Dawn does a patriotism and religious competition, we inform you that no patriotism contest, no contest for who is more religious we do, but - if you like - we would not say no to a competition with all of you and each one separately from you or a constitutional battle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u306	We'll close the list of speakers with Mr. Cavadela. Then there will be an amendment from Mrs Jackson and then the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u307	Excuse me, is the amendment new?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u308	No, we've testified her since yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u309	Okay, we know her.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u310	Mrs Jackson, not now, to close the list of speakers with Mr Cavalella and then you have the floor. Here you go, Mr. Cavaldela, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u311	Thank you, Mr President. The bill we are discussing has been termed "urgent" and the committees, given that you, the government, the majority, have accepted it. It has now become a constant tactic to bring bills on the excuse of urgency. But, gentlemen, you are doing so with zeal and zealousness to the functioning of Parliament and what you have accused of before as coup d'état. On the main issue now: given the specific nature of the bill, it was necessary to take account of the opinion of the stakeholders. We have therefore heard the institutions a few days ago. We have drawn from the institutions - and from their experience of course - knowledge. I would like to point out here that this is a matter of national management. Concessions must be ratified by Parliament. That is an issue that for us means transparency. A second comment relates to Article 64, which concerns the judicial resolution of disputes. It is clear that the primary treatment must be dietary, without excluding the judicial route. However, general international practice indicates that resolution of disputes must be arbitrary. So there is a shorter process, which guarantees security of trade. There was something about the jurisdiction of the courts, which I think has been resolved. We will also agree with the proposals made by Mr Mourmouris, the 'four points'. The first point is that Article 14, which refers to the University Research Committee, agrees to delete the exception in paragraph 3, which was completed after the consultation process, because all studies undertaken by universities in the form of research programmes remain completely uncontrolled. We believe that control by the technical board should remain - and it is critical and necessary - to finally draw a conclusion whether something is research or is a study. Furthermore, in Article 50, for the implementation of all kinds of technical projects for the system of supply, study and construction, our position is not to apply to all technical studies, because a working group was previously set up, in which they were representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance, the Technical Chamber of the Technical Chamber, the contractors and the study bodies, with a view to formulating proposals in the implementation of the procedure for the award of works under this scheme. This group therefore reached a conclusion that the "built-up" system must be maintained and applied to limited types of projects. This finding is fully documented and ensures healthy competition and the quality of projects. A ministerial decision was then adopted on the basis of these conclusions, so we believe that we must remain there and not extend it to all technical projects. Because I am an architect, I have mentioned some issues that are very important to the engineering industry in general. For example, there is no provision for protecting the tender process against unreasonable economic offers. There are huge discounts. In order to avoid these practices, we need a way of sorting accurately. It is necessary to impose additional guarantees. It is necessary to establish an objective evaluation methodology and procedures to identify an offer as unusually low, so that it falls. In particular, the TEE calls for self-evident and we fully agree with him. Firstly, it calls for the application of a dynamic algorithm, which will include the actual costs of the one which may arise from the prices of the Observatory, the bids of the tenderers and possibly other factors, which will give the maximum discount, beyond which offers will not be accepted. Secondly, it calls for a reduction in the stages of the preliminary rulings and judicial actions. Priority should be given to courts which decide on studies and projects financed by the ESRB so that European funds are not lost. Thirdly, it calls for the assignment of public services competences to free professional engineers. It should also be possible for a municipality to use freelance professionals by drawing from the register certain engineers, who will be able to sign up for maturation pre-studies for joining the NSRF. It calls for a municipality to be able to entrust freelance professionals from this register with the right to sign in the project supervision. This also helps to ensure that these studies are carried out more quickly. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] Today, neither do municipalities have engineers and can't do their job, nor do engineers have a job. In a move we could solve three problems, including the problem of direct absorption of European resources. Also, with regard to the amount of the infringement for the exercise of the request for cancellation and suspension in the Council of State, the amount has been set at EUR 15 000 and EUR 5 000 respectively. This creates some problems, mainly of equality, because they are often treated in the same way as contracts worth EUR 1 000 000 000 with others, worth EUR 50 000 000 and EUR 100,000 000. There is the European Union directive on increasing the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in public procurement. It is essential to take action to ensure the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in the form of a quota. This issue of the quota must be raised so that there is no irregularity in their participation. I've kept something important as last. You have brought an amendment and you are asking us to approve hiring out an unknown number of staff to the ODA for a maximum of five years. If they meet national defence needs, we could say 'yes'. However, we are asking for Parliament's assent to be taken into account and IASC procedures. We ask Parliament's assent for formal reasons. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Madam President, and I'll be done. By the way, I would like to point out that critical areas also, such as health and misery, have a lack of staff, while other services are overreacting. Why, then, only in ODA? Is this something classified, a matter of national security? What forecasts are there in the field of health and education? What about the shortcomings of teaching staff? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u312	I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Formats Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: 'Agreements on Greek-language education, intercultural education and other provisions'. Furthermore, the Ministers for the Environment and Energy, Foreign Affairs and Finance, as well as the Deputy Minister for Environment and Energy, have today submitted a draft law: ‘Under the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Iceland, of the other part, on the participation of Iceland in the joint response to the commitments undertaken by the European Union, its Member States and Iceland in the second commitment period, in accordance with the amendment of Doha to the Kyoto Protocol, ratified by Act No.4345/2015 (A148), to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change ratified by Law.3017/2002 (A117)’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Now the State Secretary, Mr. Jackrey, has the floor. Mrs. Jackie, five minutes is all right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u313	Maybe I need a minute more, we'll see, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u314	As much time as it takes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u315	Twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u316	Thank you, Madam President. I won't need twenty minutes, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much for your generosity. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment on the fight against smuggling in fuel stations is the result of a long-standing effort by the government, which was launched from the first days of its duties. Let me have a personal report. Nor did I believe how deeply rooted in our economic and social system is the smuggling system and how ineffective the mechanisms are to deal with it. The reforms that have taken place in this country, most of which, not all of which, were the subject of cuts or, in any case, of the destruction of rights acquired after long-term struggles. In fact, I do not understand what prevented governments so far from dealing effectively with the phenomenon of smuggling and giving a solution, because what is actually happening is that we allow the smuggling, in this paradigm of smuggling, to put a deep hand in the pocket of the poor Greek family and to extract an important part of its already poor incomes. Because that is essentially the case, ladies and gentlemen. When one pays 20 euros daily and gets a product corresponding to 15 euros or 16 euros or falsified product, what eventually happens is to damage our health and also substantially the incomes of Greek citizens as a whole. Moreover, all these healthy businesses, which give daily struggle to keep alive, have to deal with and fight the unfair competition of the smuggling. We also have to consider that all this multi-million black trafficking, most of the time, results in other criminal activities and a God knows where. However, all three hundred Members of Parliament have to be concerned about this, and we are all concerned about the fact that the Greek economy is losing between 200 and 600 million from tax foregone, when the abolition of all the supplementary pensions requested to us by the creditors does not exceed 400 million. I would therefore like to point out the difference, how crucial it is to face a united, unified phenomenon, because it actually affects the present situation and the political system as a whole, it affects our relationship with democracy, it affects the economy, it creates the image of a country which cannot tackle its problems radically, which has institutions which do not respond to the conditions and needs of the modern era and, in general, the image of a country that has resigned and which has not been given a chance to change, nor even to the self-evident ones. I would also like to say that we in the Ministry of Development consider this reform to be very important. Of course, the fight to combat smuggling does not stop by voting on the amendment. I'd say anything else. To combine it with the other actions of the Ministry, I would say that the fight against smuggling really improves the business environment in any case. I would say that it always improves the predictability of investment and the safety of well-known entrepreneurship. I would like to say at the outset that, in addition to tightening up controls and tightening up penalties and administrative sanctions, controls are intensified in a way so that we can deal effectively and radically with this phenomenon and not allow it to recur, by dealing with it in a rough and ineffective way. Before going to the technical part of the amendment, I would like to ask the whole opposition to support this amendment and to pass on the message that, despite the enormous differences that separate us, we must go together with the Greek people's self-evident interests. I would like to mention the objective of the proposed amendment and its technical elements. First of all, we are dealing with this issue in a way and we are covering the gap so as to punish the real perpetrator of the crimes of repressive pumps so that it cannot be re-activated in the fuel and oil market for a decade. This will now involve both him as a natural person and his participation in any form of legal person and a circle around him, up to the relatives of the second degree. At the same time, there is provision for greater administrative fines for such infringements. In this way we face radically the game that has taken place so far, the mouse cat, and we make the risk of smuggling so high that the offender has absolutely no interest in dealing with it. Because until now the smuggler had incorporated into his criminal business plan any fine or administrative sanction from this illegal activity. I also want to say that we are bringing about specific changes. We practically add to the criminal deeds and traces of confiscation, as well as the unauthorised modification of components affecting metrological data. More stringent penalties are provided for in cases of occupational and habitual execution of such offences. The maximum possible discrepancy between the market and the movement of petroleum products is achieved, as it is for the first time envisaged to remove the authorisation and prohibit the issuing of a new, not only for this installation but at any point, for an extended circle of persons associated with positions of responsibility with that operation and the concept of operation is identical to the concept of the agency's business, i.e. it is linked both to the productive factors of that installation and to the logistical infrastructure and its human potential. In this way we are effectively dealing with the diseases of the existing system today, because we have had the phenomenon of stopping a person's activity at a certain point and changing the seat, opening, in other words, parallel or somewhere else, in order to develop the same violation behaviour without any restriction, especially in cases where the licence was being passed on in a fictitious manner. In addition, sanctions and in cases of errors in fuel measurement systems shall be complemented and tightened. Thus, while so far in cases of major differences, over 1.5% for petrol and over 3% for liquefied petroleum gas, only a removal of the permit for this installation was required, an administrative fine of EUR 30 000 for each pump and a withdrawal of the licence is now introduced, with a ban on such activity for the next decade. Let me say that the provision is being supplemented and for the purpose of committing the offence of coercion or alteration of pumps provided for in sanctions and for whoever seals the pump systems, and for authorized crews in relapse cases the authorisation for the next 10 years is being introduced and, in such cases, the authorisation for the next 10 years is being withdrawn. Finally, for the whole chain of value, corresponding penalties are provided for those who manufacture a quantity of fuels which do not comply with the national and Community framework in force. Ladies and gentlemen, to close, I say that there is no opposition in this amendment. This amendment concerns the whole of the Greek people, which has a small group of smugglers. And I really wanted to close with what I said before: we need to overcome this phase and go to the next, after the crisis, when the season wants us all together, at least for the self-evident interests of the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u317	Madam President, I would like to ask one question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u318	Mrs. Jackie?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u319	If Mrs. Jackres is to leave, I want to ask a question now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u320	Are you going, Mrs. Jackie?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u321	If I'm going to wait for Mr. Loverdo, I'll wait for him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u322	If you wait, it is the Ministers and the Parliamentary Representatives to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u323	I'll be right here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u324	Mr. Spirtzi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u325	Thank you, Madam President. You are aware of the subject of today's part-session. Nevertheless, my position, in order not to escape the climate of days and events, will also have other aspects and will have the title "SKAI: The truth be called", what we have heard in the last few days. The first part of this position is, therefore, - I have heard the representative of the New Democracy - that the projects have been stopped, that they are 'closed'. Evidently, the MPs of the New Democracy move from Athens to the airport of "Eleftherios Venizelos" only to the island of Greece. They see the works carried out only at public airports and do not see the rest of the projects, which New Democracy left half-dead, stopped and with debts, and that is why they have the image they had after the false figures and the opening of Mr. Samaras with Mr. Venizelos. It's another situation right now. There are two and three shifts of work and construction work at weekends. Citizens who go through them, or near them, know the truth very well, as local communities know it. A number of questions have been asked. I'd like to answer the Congressmen who have asked. I was asked by MP Laconia of the New Democracy what I think of MOMKA. MOMKA's action is positive in certain categories of projects and specific circumstances. Let me give you examples. We have a "industrial" opacity industry every year we have floods in Evros. Personals take the works at the last minute, by oral order. And every year some people probably cry when they don't flood, not when they flood. The award is verbal and it is "split a cliff and then rebuilt it, so that the settlements do not flood". We had similar phenomena when you could not through the procedures, having procedures that a private individual would go to do a public work, as was recently in the Flood of Skopelos or in very uninterrupted areas or in projects that are of a very strategic nature and you want to ensure confidentiality. So, there, MOMKA has a place and not only has a place, but it also benefits the Greek State. Ask the Skopjes to tell you their positive view of the floods that took place last year on the assistance of the Ministry of Defence. The Ministry of Defence, despite the fact that it is excluded from yesterday's legislative framework, has so far shown that the vast majority of the projects comply with the procedures laid down by the law on public works and that this has to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u326	They did that first, the Engineering Orders.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u327	Not with great success, because the engineers and engineers are different. So when you get into the logic of executing a script, because the Brigadier General ordered it, it's probably not a rational process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u328	But MOMKA from Engineering will get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u329	I've served there, too. I would like to go back a little bit on the subject of concessions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u330	You're getting private engineers?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u331	You know, there is a civilian staff at the Ministry of National Defence - and I imagine the agency - who play the role of a public service that performs public works.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u332	I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u333	So, let's catch the story of concessions. Concessions, as we have lived in our country, include the work and the cost of the project and, after the completion of the project, its operation. We have three generations of concessions. The first generation of concessions belongs to "Eleftherios Venizelos" - remember how many times the contract has changed - the Attica Street, the Rios-Antirio bridge. In the second generation of concessions, we have the five motorways and now we are going for the third generation of concessions. What's the difference after today's draft law? It is that there will finally be legislation and rules on concessions in the country. To date, there has been no and, to make an account, as a country, of what had happened in previous concessions, to remember that "Eleftherios Venizelos" was assigned, if I remember correctly, to a foreign company. We don't have to call names. Those who were subcontractors from the Greek market "removed" with praise. Several companies were destroyed by their involvement at the "Eleftherios Venizelos" airport, as there was no institutional framework provided for by subcontractors, their responsibility, the features they should have. It's a different part of the operation. We're talking about building the airport. As far as the Attica Road is concerned, there has been a great debate and it will also be in the future for the cost of the Attica road, for the operating costs, for the maintenance costs and by whom it is done. And, obviously, for the compensation we pay for tolls. The third, which is also a wonderful work, is the Riu-Antiri bridge and as know-how and as a construction. Every time, at least once a month, I come to answer questions from the Members of the New Democracy and the Democratic Alliance about how to reduce tolls on the Riu-Antirio bridge, and that says a lot. In the second generation of concessions, we have the five motorways. We've been through this a thousand times, I'll see you today. There's a few questions for all these projects. Did it get any faster? Did they get cheaper? Do they work on the basis of social sensitivity or social policy? None of this is happening and I have to say that, if we had money or could borrow and the previous governments had not brought us to today's fracture, it would be better to build such public and social infrastructures, through the public works system or the public-private partnership. In times of crisis like the one we are talking about, it is a valuable tool, but it must at last have rules, it must have a legislative and institutional framework, which was not there, and it must operate in the interests of transparency and public interest. Today we incorporate Directive 23/2014 into national legislation on the award and enforcement of concessions and adopt national regulations and implementing the directive and our own options in order to create a single and comprehensive legislative framework for regulating the award and enforcement of concessions. The exemption of concessions to date from the scope of the European Public Procurement Directives created insecurity in relation to the legal regime governing their award procedures and left a wide margin of discretion in the national laws of the Member States or in the light of the issues of tenders which were made every time in any different work. The aim of the draft law is therefore to establish an autonomous, uniform and uniform regulatory framework, in accordance with international legislative standards and accepted best practices, as well as the principles and rules of primary and secondary Union law, which regulate the sector of concessions. In addition, I would point out that, in addition to the arrangements of Directive 2014/23/EU, the draft law incorporates Union law regulation which introduce supplementary regulation of the directive and issues that are deemed necessary and should be implemented, in view of the achievement of its objectives. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Madam President, I would like three minutes, your tolerance. I'll mention the innovations of the bill. The first innovation is that, at last, the concept of the project is defined, which has created many ambiguities and distortions. The second is to avoid infringement or circumvention of the law in the event of mixed contracts, including works and services. We also have too many distortions to deal with here from the past. The third - which is very critical, I will explain it in detail - is the award procedure for a project contract. It can no longer be initiated without expropriations having been carried out before and the necessary archaeological investigations have been completed. This is something that we have paid too much, mainly with the responsibility of the New Democracy and Mr Souflia, when he was the Minister of Infrastructure, and we still pay it for so many years, decades later. And the Greek people have paid for it with billions. The other section is that for the first time the detailed budget for the concession project is included in the contractual issues. I'll explain that in detail next. So far, not only did we not have a detailed budget, but neither did we have a budget for the concession projects. The next, the fifth, section is that for the first time in the financial model there are social indicators and criteria, based on the economic conditions in force, for the timing of the tender, for economic development and for the protection of vulnerable and vulnerable social groups, such as the unemployed, the disabled and others. If that were the case, when the five motorways came out, we would not make special negotiations in order to achieve the analogue tolls, so that people on the border of their municipality can move freely, without paying the private people, to enable the SMEs and those who serve them to cross freely and so on. And, of course, we would not have the vicious circle that traffic burdens are being reduced, because citizens do not have financial opportunities, and the toll price increases, which means that traffic is then further reduced. This is the deadlock in which the concessions are found. I think with what we've predicted, we'll cure it. Finally, technical adequacy is required in order for a contracting authority, an entity, to carry out the concession award procedure or to supervise its execution. I will give various figures - because there was a great debate - about all the concessions, to have a picture of what was done with the expropriations that were not done by the previous governments, but we did them and added them to the important projects by decision of the Ministerial Council, and we accelerated all this process, such as what we did to complete the movement of public utility networks, what we did to complete environmental permits and what we did to complete archaeological work within a year and a half of what we had not done all the previous years. What were the consequences? I will refer to the concession contract of the Central Greece motorway E65 after the revision, because here we have signed the Convention in 2007, suspension of works in 2011, signature of an amendment agreement in 2013, date of entry into force of amendment in 2013 and good that you left the government, both before and after! In this work we have the international originality of removing the road principle and the end of the road in its review. It's a "bridge in Sahara", which says the joke. In this work, therefore, because expropriations had not been completed, we had an overall request from a manufacturer and a concessionaire of 205 million. The 180 were for the manufacturer. The agreement to complete the project and the final compensation agreement are at 60 and by the concessionaire on the same project from 23 million to 7.5 million. [[At this point, the first Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, takes over the presidential office.]] Corresponding to the Ionian Road is a little worse, because the numbers are much larger. The manufacturer asked for 317 million, the final compensation agreement is 150 million, the concessionaire asked for 89 million and the final agreement is 24 million, that is from about 500 million to two projects, the agreement is for only 210 million for the costs of the manufacturer's compensation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u334	Minister, will you need more time?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u335	Yes, Mr President, I will need to because they have said too much and we have to say in detail what happens to concessions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u336	Approximately how much do you determine?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u337	Two and a half to three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u338	You got it. Thank you. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u339	So we've got the Olympian Street, too. In the climate of the days, "SKAI: Truth be called". In Olympia the original contract was called the operation of an Elefsina - Corinth - Patras - Tower - Chacona motorway. After the review, the Tower - Tsakona section "was taken the river". He was "knowledgeful". There have been many discussions here about what this government will do with the tower of Patras. In the first half of the year, we were told that the work would not be done. They sweared and blamed Mr. Stathakis for the money, then me and so on. What we found in the Ministry was that 80% of the project budget was entrusted to the few companies of the seventh class, five, six companies. We were committed to the Greek people that this 'part' will end. A people and industry cannot suffer and become over-profited by five, six companies. So we made this work with eight competitions. It's not partition. It is another concept of how these projects will be carried out in our country, which will not be directed at five, six companies. Let me tell you that the original project budget was 2 billion. I should like to tell you that in the negotiations we made for the completion of this, manufacturers were asking for 297 million allowances because they had not been expropriated again, they had not solved the issues where the railways and its works were cut off by the motorway and so on. It was agreed by about 300 million, 145 million. That is what SYRIZA - ANEL government does, because you blame her for making a statement, and, of the 90 million that the concessionaire asked for in the same project, 69 million were agreed. We understand why "SKAI: The truth is called" and we understand the common concern of the New Democracy, some MPs, the existing channels and canals about what will happen in the contest. Will people win, canals, or will there be competition there and those who have a channel without permission today, will they not? We understand that. Inside the debate on concessions, however, New Democracy and some Members of the House of Representatives are identified and taken with the views of the companies involved in the concession Elefsina - Corinth - Patras, not the other tower - Tsakona. That's it. What are the companies involved in Olympia on this concession? They are the companies ‘TERNA’, ‘ATCOR’, ‘J&P AVAX’, ‘HOCHTIEF — VINCI’ and ‘ATHENA S.A.T.E.’. These companies, like New Democracy and Members of Parliament who are cut off for Patras - Tower, wanted a competition. The level of the tender was such - the budget is close to 470 million, close to half a billion - which could be involved by the same companies and one, two more. The competitions which have so far taken place have involved many more companies. I'll tell you in detail what the discounts were in those contests, to get in a few questions. The first competition included twelve shapes. The minority, i.e. the one who gave the largest discount, had 53%, the latter had 47.99%, the third 47.33%, the fourth 47.26%. The second competition involved thirteen shapes. The shareholder gave 55.32% discount, the second 49.33% figure, the third 45.50%, the fourth 43.11%. In the third competition, the shareholder gave 57.45%, the second scheme 48.39%, the third scheme 47.23%, the fourth 46.40%. There were thirteen companies involved in both the second and third competitions. The largest discount of the companies that participate in Olympia Street is 32%. I don't know if you know what we're talking about. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] In a budget of about half a billion euros, the Greek people will pay 45% of the project budget. What does he pay for the Olympic road, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy? With what budget? The budget of the Olympic road and the concession projects has not been discounted, no tenders have been made, no tenders have been tendered. At the time Mr. Souflias was the deal on construction costs. What's that? They didn't have any studies! In the preliminary study, therefore, or the pre-study of the concessionaire that had changed seven hundred times until the implementation study, a cost was agreed. In other words, the discount on construction costs is 0%, not to say it's negative. The questions we are asking are simple: First, is there any relationship between the contractors involved in the concession of Olympia and the existing channels? In other words, does the AKTOR, TERNA, J&P, HOCHTIEF - VINCI have or have they ever had an affair with the Canadians? Secondly, what are the political motives of the New Democracy and the MPs who are denouncing us with the companies 'TERNA', 'AKOOR', 'HOCHTIEF - VINCI', 'J&P' and others? Of course the "SCAI: The Truth To Say", for the multiple competitive procedures, bring a 55% discount. In other words, the Greek will give 55% less money from the sweat of the Greek people. It's to wonder. And thirdly, is the big companies and existing channels a closed political analysis and meditation club that the New Democracy is involved in and you are homogenising in the positions and charges you are making us? That's a real question. We are waiting for these answers, because we are talking about concessions, but the 'SCAI: Truth is called' is the subject of the channels. So we can't answer that. The question of individual cleaning and storage contracts has been raised by a colleague. And because we have the corresponding amendment from the Ministry, my colleague spoke about workers' rights and the conditions that exist there and that they are not guaranteed by individual contracts. I would like to convey and ask whether there is a sense of what is going on today, with these contracts to the public bodies that have made tenders for cleanliness or for safekeeping. I invite you to visit and get informed to bodies using such contracts, to see how there is and how there is uninsured work, how there is blackmailing workers in cleanliness, to individuals, how there are false wages, by extortion, to sign up for the workers taking a lot of money, while they get much less, how there are false situations of workers. That's not a case. It's a specific investigation that's been carried out on specific contracts. For the final result and the quality of these services, I expect those Members to object to individual contracts going to see and tell us whether they have at least had a good result, apart from the working middle ages and the illegality that exists within them. We are not talking about the storage of the metro stations, which you have reported to us many times. It's the kind of company that's in custody. And since we said that misery would stop, some teams were completely random to break some stations. I hope there's no connection. I conclude by saying that the two draft laws that we discussed yesterday and today are the real areas, the progressive reforms that the country, the Greek people, needs in a very difficult international environment. It is in the opposite of the well-known reforms, which impose unreserved sacrifices on the Greek people and easy to enrich a few interests of closed clubs of canalarchs, bankers and the peculiar oligarchy of interests established in the country. This policy will take the country out of the crisis and we will continue with it. Let everyone get the hammer that yesterday's policy is finally over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u340	Mr. Spirtzi, you broke every record.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u341	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u342	You're welcome. Mr. Dritsa has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u343	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, an amendment with just an article and four paragraphs simply comes to correct errors. He doesn't introduce anything new, he doesn't legislate anything new. These are error corrections made during the legislative phase of the draft law that was subsequently adopted by number 4404/2016 in the Government Journal and related to the law of ratification and concession agreement for the Piraeus Port Authority. They are necessary because the legislative improvements - you will remember that - which were tabled by me on that day, before the resumption of the adjourned sitting, due to the reform, which were then carried out integrating other amendments, were incorporated into the wrong position. That can be seen by anyone. Article 12 of Law 4404/2016, as was passed and published in the Official Journal, has the first paragraph of the amendment by the Ministry of Finance, Mr Tsakalotou, and the second paragraph, which should be the continuation of the text of Mr Tsakalotou's amendment, has infiltrated one of the paragraphs of my own legislative improvements. This is restored. In other words, with the first paragraph of the proposed amendment, the second paragraph of Article 12 of Law 4404/2016 is restored and as it really was, we have recommended to the House, and Mr Tsakalotos and I, take the single dimension of Article 12. And the wrong passage of my own legislative improvements, with the fourth paragraph of this amendment, went to the second paragraph of Article 20, which, anyway, was his position, according to my suggestion. You can see these very easily. I have here the legislative improvements I made at the time. I can submit them simply so that there is no doubt or insecurity in relation to the correctness of this correction. In conclusion, there are two other issues of minor importance, which need to be corrected. The second paragraph of the amendment that I am proposing restores orthographical errors in paragraph 9 of Article 15 of Law 4404/2016, i.e. precise numbering of articles - this is the case - of Law 4331/2015, to which this provision refers. Finally, the third paragraph of the proposed amendment, referring to overtime employees of the Port Agency, is a regulation adopted by the Parliament and covered by the 2016 budget and not 2015 budget. This is obviously a misunderstanding, because the 2015 budget cannot meet this need. These are the four corrections which, unfortunately, although they were understood that night, could not be corrected there and the process of publishing the law and legislating by means of amendments was needed to make corrections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u344	Thank you, too. Mr. George Stathakis has the floor for eighteen minutes. Is time enough for you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u345	I'm gonna need less.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u346	Well done. You're always in time. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u347	Let me give Mr. Spirtzi some time. Ladies and gentlemen, today an important bill is being completed, covering a gap that exists. There were legislation on concessions. However, they were obviously imperfect and, as Mr Spiritzis put it directly, we had the development of this type of projects with many problems, in each category of them and in every period. Let me, however, because they have also been set on ideological terms by Mr Metarakis, both the concession contracts and our understanding of PPPs in general, to clarify a few things. Firstly, the public usually is and once was responsible in Greece to do three things in relation to the country's projects: firstly, to plan projects, secondly, to supervise the implementation of the projects and, thirdly, to finance projects. No accidental or symptoms at all, the first ability the public has to lose. It was lost through successive stages of weakening the institutions and procedures through which it is planned and decided, both on strategic choices in public projects and in the country's infrastructure and on a number of other issues. Its second ability to oversee it was also gradually weakened, as accumulated successive governments continuously weakened the institutions that had this function or competence. The third and most important, obviously in the conditions of economic crisis, fiscal pressure or anything else, but not only for reasons like these, in circumstances where it was felt that cheap private money and private borrowing would be the solution to all the problems of the economy, was also converted into the idea that financing public projects made it private resources, i.e. bank resources. These three dimensions, which I have just suggested and which are obviously the responsibility of successive governments, have led to an even more dramatic development, that is, the idea, in the late 1990s and early 2000s, that all major projects will be carried out in the form of PPPs. For comparative reasons - and I would remind you that the average PPPs in the European Union are 8%. 92% of projects in the European Union are public: infrastructure, airports, ports, what we regard as infrastructure projects. Let me remind you that from 1996, 1998 to the 2008 crisis, the PPPs absorbed 70% of the EDF resources - and I refer to these specific projects, major projects - and the vast majority, obviously, of the funds of the Public Investment Programme. That was the Greek peculiarity. This was one of the causes of the crisis by a general confession. This is the situation that the government is trying to face, which is obviously called upon to close a cycle of major and important projects, by improving, by dismantling these works, which had been frozen. I would remind you that these projects have undergone two revisions of the conventions, that after the second revision they were left out of resources. I would remind you that the main revisions are the public taking on more and more of the risk. In the last review we were in the opposition, we put it directly, as all these predictions, as they had been, were causing problems. So it's not ideological obsession. We are trying to restore - and this is our commitment - firstly, the balance that must exist. The public must be given the opportunity to plan again, it must be possible again to oversee and, of course, to have the opportunity to finance again and to a significant extent. That's what the reality is. At the same time, we do not reject the PPPs, nor concessions, nor any form or tool, if it is considered - and is considered - appropriate or more suitable for one or more categories of projects in order to move forward in this form and not in the form of a public project. I would like to point out here that there is another institutional gap at the level of the government and the way the sector works. Too many European countries - I stress this, too many European countries - have started the process of developing methodological tools, such as public benchmarking. Public benchmarking is a process by which a public body decides whether it is more interesting for a project to be auctioned as a classic public project, whether as a concession or as a public-private partnership. Comparing alternative procedures from an economic point of view - from the point of view of the net present value - and from the point of view of the social interest. Because according to the criterion of whether all the projects were PPPs, as you can see, the only projects that can be done are projects that have a very high future resource flow and can depreciate the project. This is not necessarily a criterion for all projects. It is therefore necessary, firstly, for the public to have a design capacity, secondly, to compare any contracting entity with what is the most appropriate form, from an economic and social point of view, to choose one or other way of building and financing the project. It is no coincidence that this process, widespread - I repeat - in countries such as Portugal, the Netherlands - I stress it - is compulsory - public benchmarking - before starting a project. Before deciding, in other words, how the work is to be done, there must be such a procedure. This is the mark, I think, of our own government. This is the difference in our strategy towards such an important and crucial area. The two laws that we are currently introducing in Parliament are the laws that create a complete, uniform framework for both public procurement and public concessions. Other legislations will follow in the same direction, which have common rules, more transparency, better competition, lower costs, public benefit, and, at the same time, a change of policy on the substance, which will enable the public to play the role that must be played, in order to have infrastructures that the country needs, which have a large social and economic footprint and, at the same time, ensure public interest and social total. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u348	Thank you, Mr Stathakis. Now Mr. Loverdos has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u349	Ladies and gentlemen, one point which we should look at very carefully, once the House is reopened at the end of August, is the refugee issue, with the new dimensions it takes. I am not only talking about the doubts that exist throughout Europe about the maintenance or implementation of the European Union-Turkey agreement, as we know it, but also about a second issue, which concerns the country and relates to the increasing flows - if this is a constant situation lately - and, above all, above all, about what is happening with the people who are already here. Their numbering wants to be close to the fifty-seven thousand, in so far as the government and the Greek State can make this number and, secondly, it is necessary that the Greek Parliament should know where they are, if their registration is to do with the place where they are and with all the problems that are combined with the fact that thousands of people are somewhere, mainly education, education, that is, health and medical care, but also public order. The image that one has that crosses the coastal avenue and goes through the Greek is not good. If, in fact, he goes down from his car as well and takes a walk to the spaces across the street, this image will be confirmed by other elements. The government must therefore have an accurate picture and must be prepared, because August is the last month, at least, in the school period, for the problems that have accumulated on the issue of immigration - refugees. The second general point I would like to raise, which concerns a minister present, relates to a question that I have seen today that a number of Members of Parliament have tabled, and it has to do with the licensing of television stations, which are in progress. I read - and I mentioned this to the Committee of Inquiry - that the electronic auction will be conducted by the EBRD, an independent authority, but, as I have read, I would ask the Minister to clarify this - it is not possible for the tender to be electronic, as we have learned. Because the debate over all these months, since October, requires an electronic auction in August. A tender, which began to have problems, because no one came and the competition became barren. But the government would take the necessary steps. I do not think that any criticism has been made of this. It happens that the competitions are barren. In any case, however, it cannot be a matter of an invitation to tender for Arabic technology when there are too many doubts about what the government is doing. There are doubts about the use of technology so that pluralism can thrive. They are comments made by Commissioner Etinger. And there are comments that we have made about what body it is under the Constitution to give the formal act of authorisation. It is a loose end in the Council of State, which seems to have made specific decisions since September, October. There has been one last loose end of a government leak, that permits may be increased. This will obviously create problems, ladies and gentlemen, if the auction is done - and it is done in a pedigree way - for those who know that the licences are four have offered greater amounts. There will be a series of messes that will cause further problems. However, I am not making a general reference to an ongoing committee of inquiry on media lending and a parallel process of authorisations under the October Act. It will be sad to have the EBT a symphony sheet for a process that will be done with the araba. I do not know what you will answer and when you will answer to the Members, I would ask you to tell me if what is being heard is true - you may have already done so and I do not know, because we are working on various committees of this House and in plenary and something might have escaped me, Mr Spirtzi - that you have tabled an amendment. Will you testify? Is it a matter for the legislator or is it your pleasure to change the manner of the competition? Is that something you can do? Do you have the discretion to do so by the government? If that is the case, I would like you to tell me how you are thinking and, in any case, you have to give the necessary clarification. Because if these discussions involve truth, then, I am very sorry, it will be blown up in the air and a process that has been very busy and you are not at all sure that the Committee of Inquiry will continue to operate in the way it operates today. We're not making fun of each other here. As far as revenue is concerned - the Minister is not here - the government was due to clarify in the morning whether the journalistic information on the reduction of revenues by 500 million is true. We read a leak from the General Accounting Office that that's not true. The government, however, at least until a moment ago had not given a picture. The ministers are here - of course they are not responsible - and they could make this clear. As far as the directive is concerned, which we incorporate within our own law and for which the ministers of the previous governments have worked, we will undoubtedly support it. Ladies and gentlemen, however, Mr Amyras gave me the opportunity to give a thought on the ideological consistency of the major ruling party. Is it true that when this directive came to the European Parliament, your MEPs voted against? If it is true, what you have said here these two days, which is about the directives, is problematic. And because various members of the government make suggestions to us in relation to the groups and the position of each and every group in the European Parliament, you should first suggest that you do so to yourself, to whom you belong, elsewhere you see that there may be a future for you and the policies that you exercise are policies of extremist neoliberalism. You have an identity issue, if that's the case. If that is not the case and you have voted in favour of it, in recent years, opposition and government have been telling you consistently. However, if you have voted against, then you have a very limited margin to make suggestions and even more general political references, such as those made yesterday and today. We shall now proceed to the amendments. I have asked - I do not know whether my colleague, Mrs Jackson, is here - from the President-in-Office of the Council, when she made her statement, proposing her amendment, and I said that if she is here, then I should wait and ask now. If he's not here, I'd ask then. He said he'd be here and he's not here. I'm keeping the matter. I would like to make a reference to the mosque amendment. We, consistently in our positions, will support. I want to know what the government will do, i.e. the majority of the government, the ruling party, with its ally. With the Independent Greeks what are you going to do? Have you come to an understanding? Do you agree? Are you going strong? Have you found these things? Have you booked them? We'll see about it tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u350	We'll see, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u351	However, since we are discussing this today, I will have my word, ladies and gentlemen of the majority. So many times your ideologic ambiguity and your divergences have brought you here, in a position to lose the majority and ask for the undeniable opposition. So now I consider it advisable to make a specific reference. It is one of the parliamentary amendments that I stand out for the shipyards and we will support it if you accept it. Are you accepting her?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u352	I've accepted her.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u353	You have the support of our group too. Mrs Kozobol's amendment is correct. I would like to ask Mr Dritsa about the legislative improvements that he has made to previous arrangements concerning the agreement with 'COSCO', if you are all informed and if we will not have any issues here again. If you are informed, I do not think there is anyone who could tell you 'no'. However, you must be informed so that we do not take responsibilities which do not correspond to events that will have to do with your own responsibility. As far as the amendments relating to ODA are concerned, we are in agreement. But, for NSAs, Mr. Dritsa, the two of us have had a number of debates on parliamentary control. Here we have to say that recapitalisation is not in the wrong direction. It's in a positive direction. But the months go by, you know, and what the government promised in the realm is verified or overthrown. We see here - and we have very good information too - that the company has many problems with regard to its viability, on your own responsibility. So since we have had this debate in parliamentary scrutiny, I am not doing parliamentary scrutiny at this time, but, in the light of an amendment that we will be called upon to vote on, I say to you that you should say here whether there are any issues relating to the need for new financial support, a new injection in October to November. If that is the case, then what I'm saying will be verified, that is, you're giving it up. You found a plan in progress and left it unresolved. I want to finish - I have no opportunity to wait any longer, I have no other question of developing - the issue of smuggling. Look, I noticed very well what Mrs Jackres said, a word for word, in her introduction. I'm not an expert, but I'm a politician who knows it in general. So I say - and the lawyers will understand - that what they are asking, namely support from other parliamentary groups, will have it. We'll support it. We offer something you never offered. However, we have shown during both these periods of Parliament that we support what is reasonable. We will therefore support, vote. However, from what I have retained - and the text verifies it - it is that all the attempt to smuggle smuggling in the field of fuels is to do with criminality, which is either extended or increased. In other words, most behaviors are punished. However, all these behaviors are being punished more severely. We know from the legal standpoint that the increase in stubbornness is not always an ally. Maybe it is. Because, in fact, this is how the government believes it, we will vote on it. But he's not always an ally. Also, I didn't understand much more. He talked about increasing checks. It's not a law matter. What does the government offer today? It increases the criminality, agree. Another? He also made a critical reference to the past, that is, he said that so many years this issue had not been dealt with. First of all, in addition to being pitied, he doesn't say anything else. Second, we agree here, but why just at the station? The rest of the circuit? Is that all right? The 2013 Act provides for GPS throughout the level.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u354	Now he's out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u355	Yeah, that's right. I have no objections. But you are a year and a half government and you say so much. This? The rest of the circuit, beyond GPS, how will it be handled? Be targeted, then, and your words are counted. You want to deal with an increase in smuggling in the agency's field, you agree. And they say yes to you as far as I know. Be careful if your settings don't allow injustices. You're supposed to have done this by law. The parties have objections, but we are looking at what the government says, because it is a big deal. Secondly, you cannot, because you are dealing with smuggling there - and you are trying to - think that you have solved the whole issue, you have expanded all over the circuit, the whole history of fuel is, in your intervention, under control now and everyone else was something to do and they did not. If you have any positive results, I wish. We support your legislative initiative. But we do not think it is complete. In any case, I would like to ask the Secretary-General, who has more knowledge of the subject, beyond a lot of praise, especially the issue he deals with, what else he is doing. Because reintroducing - I repeat and closing - the increase in controls is not a question of legislative initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u356	Madam President, I ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u357	Here you go, Mr. Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u358	Thank you, Madam President. He asked a question, Mr. Loverdes, and I have to answer it. Mr Loverdos, because the question has been put with a very serious look - I have followed you - and I will therefore answer you seriously. I said, when I presented this amendment, which is not essential, that it is correct, that what is envisaged was adopted by the House, simply in the wrong position.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u359	And we voted for them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u360	It's nothing new. They shall take their place in the law corresponding to them, Article 12 and Article 20. That's it. For the other things that you might mean by your question, I think I have answered very well on those days and then the Prime Minister's trip to China made it clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u361	Madam President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u362	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u363	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Loverdo, the canal contest, you know he's been taken over by the General Press Secretariat. According to the law passed by the Greek Parliament - rightly in my view - the General Secretariat asked both for the staff and for the competition and for the functioning of the Committee to assist both the Ministry of Infrastructure, the General Secretariat for Infrastructure, the General Secretariat for Telecommunications and Posts, EFSA, which is a regulator for public procurement, as well as the EBT. Neither the Committee nor the Secretariat-General nor anyone who has decided that the EETC should do so. Probably the post or publications in some newspapers aren't valid. It was the competition, and I imagine it will be repeated, because it came out barren, because it couldn't be such a competition without a reliable system under the law. If the EBRD did, it would also be outside the legislative framework. In other words, the regulatory authority should have a contract with the General Secretariat, which is not so easy in time to complete the competitive process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u364	Mr Brutsis has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u365	Ladies and gentlemen, since yesterday I told the Minister, Mr Spiritzi, whom I am succeeding in the Step, that every time he comes up and makes reference to the past he must be very careful. Yesterday I was critical of his trade union activity, but today I will tell him something else. Today, taking the floor, Mr Spirtz in an unthinkable way made a reference to public works, and even Eleftherios Venizelos, as well as Rio-Antirio, essentially in the role of a public prosecutor, to speak of the great scandals of that period, until he received and became Minister and of a Step of Parliament to denounce the past. The question arises as follows: Who does this? Mr. Spirtzis? Mr Spirtzis, who until recently was a PASOK member, who raised him up by PASOK, who made him President of the Technical Chamber, comes today - is it political immorality - to denounce yesterday in which he took part and put the question of the young and the modern today? Who? Mr. Spirjis! And if, at the end of the day, Minister, what you are saying is true, for this general quote, the anointings you said from a Chamber of Deputies on the plays and complaints of scandals, go to the prosecutor. Why don't you go to the D.A.? You're about to close two years, Minister. Are you going to be here again about the complexity of the past? Go to the D.A. and get it over with. Don't say too much! Now you're judging now, and your story is recorded. I don't judge your historical trade union presence, which I mentioned yesterday, that you told engineers not to pay, I'm talking about the issues of your political past, because the subject of political history is very fundamental. Because today SYRIZA appears with the dress of the modern, new one. Mr Stathakis, for example, could rely on his political consistency and stability, not on you. You guys don't personally. And other SYRIZA officials, half the government. Ladies and gentlemen, the legislative initiative introduced today by the government is in the right direction. It's institutional modernisation. It is something that the New Democracy sees positive and that is why it votes for. It is in line with the European directive and now comes into the deep core of modernising an institutional framework, which wanted the part of concessions in the PPP sector to be modernised. Here is the so-called political contradiction, which, until now, SYRIZA condemned all this, was contrary to ideological policy, but we are glad to welcome it even on the path of realism and reality. And that is a positive development for the political system. It is a conquest, when we see SYRIZA today as a government, even in public and private partnerships, to come and be praised and praised for hours - and Mr Stathakis - for the country's institutional modernisation in this area. But it is also an opportunity to say issues relating to current topicality. The question of 'SCAI', in the form of 'SCAI', time of truth or to tell the truth has been heard. Indeed, this morning, I had the honour of being in SKAI - which is unfortunately the only television station that is broadcast throughout the country, because there is no other political broadcast, only SKAI is at the moment from the private sector - along with the Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA, Mr Manda - well - who, in a crisis of sincerity, confessed, canceled and disproved the Prime Minister himself - the truth is, the man said - that the loss of the SYRIZA is a defeat. This is it, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. That's the truth Mr. Mandas said today. Don't hide anymore! And it is not just the ESS, which basically equals four monthly lost for the country's low pensioner. There are other issues, such as the supplementary pension, which pensioners are seeing today. This is what we saw yesterday on television, complaining about cutting, which they did not believe, because Mr Katrugalos and all of SYRIZA confirmed that pensions would not be cut. They were more protesting because they are even told that pensions are not cut off and that they are seen to be cut off. That's the paradox, and that's what makes it so much more angry. I would therefore like, on this occasion, to repeat something known, that yes, indeed, in 2012 as ministers of the previous government, operating within the framework of the budgetary need to adapt our budgets to the more general European rules that we had to make. These reductions, however, were the last. They didn't need any more reductions. Reassured by a step of Parliament, but also by the entire public spectrum I have found, pensions will not be reduced by a single euro, but will not be increased. On the other hand, an Opposition that had ridden populism promised a thirteenth pension, promised to abolish the zero deficit clause, promised and promised what it did not promise. He promised wage increases, abolishing taxes, abolishing HISPI and getting the results. I would therefore like to say once again at this critical moment that the reductions in pensions for all pensioners, irrespective of the amount, are unjust and unjust. The financial balance that we had achieved in 2014 was enough and it did not need, in addition to marginal interventions that appeared in Hardouvel's e-mail, to make adjustments, i.e. reductions. And to explain, it was the zero deficit clause, which was of the order of 4.5% for 2015 - so much we had put in the budget, 6% reduction in SYRIZA in 2015- and 0% reduction in 2016, because there was an absolute balance in 2016 as well as in supplementary pensions. It's 20% to 30% in half with SYRIZA and no one knows where it's going. There was the question of the freezing of pension increases, because in the previous law that we formed and was about to implement, there was the prospect that the algorithm could increase pensions. We'd freeze the pension increase. There was the rationalisation of the CSCE, not its abolition, to remove injustices and early retirements, a time-consuming pathogen that was the last of the structural changes of insurance. And instead of all that, they collapsed all in the logic that existed in the first half of the year, for which SYRIZA avoided doing the examination, to see Plan X and what was the EUR 21 billion we lost from GDP and what was the EUR 3.1 million in the insurance burden from the 310 million that was the necessary adjustment. That's the reality. This is, unfortunately, the harsh reality, which is accompanied by an environment of opaqueness. You will allow me to make a special reference, because today it closes a year from a major country's reformist conquest. It was the achievement of "ELIOS". Helios was a major structural change in the Ministry of Labour and Social Security, which was created on June 1, 2013, at zero-cost, with the officials of the Ministry and since then, all the data were presented, the mapping of the insurance. There is not one Member of Parliament who doubts this, not one journalist. He presented for the first time the “ELIO” on June 1, 2013, which neutralised the “monkey” pensions forever. There were no "monkey" pensions again. We have won the intrusion within this sick, the intrinsic system of insurance. It was 450 million per annum of the benefit of HLIOS and, besides, it enabled everyone to see who lost the ESS today - their number, their self-evident - which supplementary pensions and what amount has been lost, to know the data of the insurance system. Many children did their thesis on the insurance of ELIOS for the insurance system of the country and Mr Katrugalos has stopped the extradition of the “HLIOS” on August 1, 2015. Do you know why? Because last year, in August, SYRIZA's first reductions were made, 6% in subsidiary and 2% in the mains. And Mr Katrugalos chose the opacity and darkness so that no one can tell him about the evidence that is undeniable to the "HIOS" that these are pension reductions. This is SYRIZA. I'm afraid so. Instead of going forward, we go back and into this environment - your right - you have already been criticised by society as a whole. You will see it very soon in the polls that will appear in September. The deafening silence of SYRIZA, due to internal balances, on the issue of the condemnation of the occupation, the desecration of the church, the Holy Church. SYRIZA's deaf. In fact, under the pressure of the Holy Synod, Mr. Friends was forced to make a statement. But Mr Philis does not express himself as a minister of government. The Government must put its position in full on the matter by a central statement of its condemnation. It did not, because it must try to balance the internal components. You're judging. That's your right. We will not let you - and I told you yesterday - undo what is worthwhile in the country. We'll stop you from seeing it in the fall. You'll see what the New Democracy will do. And the citizens who listen to us will touch the New Democracy. They already understood you. However, what is not allowed is the specific, which concerns justice, the other leading institution of democracy, which you repeatedly undermine. Yesterday with statements by Mr. Paulakis once again undermined the functioning of justice and police. And I'm asking SYRIZA. Is he going to tolerate Mr. Polakis for a long time in the government? Will he, for a long time, accept this unacceptable anti-parliamentary, anti-democratic behaviour by the Minister? I would remind you that if there were such a Minister, not in the New Democracy, but in other parties that were ruling, the next day would not exist, he would not be in the position of the Minister. But that is our political difference, the difference in our political culture, our political responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u366	Thank you, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u367	Madam President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u368	What do you want, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u369	I would like the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u370	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u371	Mr. Brutsi, first of all, I would like to inform you that Mr. Stathakis, because he used to be in the KKE and left the KKE and came to the coalition and then to SYRIZA. He's not stable either.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u372	You're all unstable!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u373	I want to tell you a few things. I am especially proud of you to find me, and when I was chairman of the Technical Chamber, and you are calling me today. Especially for you. I'm saying that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u374	I don't curse you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u375	Now listen to what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u376	I'm practicing you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u377	Yes, yes! I would also ask you to take better care of what I say. I have a record of what you have said. You said I made an innocuous quote of evidence. That's a neologic. ‘Unfair listing of data’ does not exist. You said I talked about scandals, too. I didn't talk about a scandal. When I have scandals, I'm taking them to the D.A. I've done enough. You'll see the results of the D.A.'s investigation later. I also know that you do not understand - or have understood and hurts you - that the main body of the Socialist Left and of the citizens has come to SYRIZA and is not going to leave, because he is happy to watch you and he is watching that you have not even made it - you are telling us here about Paul Paul Paul Paul! - an announcement about the rest of the stuff. Get out an announcement about ELSTAT. Place and then tell about Paul, Spirtzi and all the rest of the government. Thank you from the heart of our hearts, especially you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u378	Mr. Nektarios Santorinios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u379	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, I was impressed by what Mr Brutsi said yesterday and Mr Loverdos said - that the only station that has a political broadcast is SCAI.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u380	Private.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u381	I thought maybe you thought ERT still had a black one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u382	Private, I said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u383	No, you did not say that, Mr Brutsi, now you are clarifying it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u384	I did.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u385	That's what you meant about...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u386	It's public television, Mr. Loverdos. ANDREAS LOVERDO: We know that well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u387	It is not a state, as you once did it and then you did it black. From there, I can't understand anything. Mr. Friends doesn't represent the government? Minister of Government doesn't he represent the government? What are we listening to here? Are you satisfied with what you are saying and insisting that we continue to make a statement - we have answered you yesterday - by satisfying some of the components of your party, and indeed the extreme right components, which are more likely to be in charge of your party? And because you are also coming back to the subject of Mr. Polakis, will you finally answer us if the Ministry of Health, which saves 800,000 euros with the individual cleaning contracts, denounces contracts with contractors, while at the same time increasing the wages of the cleaners from 350 euros to 850 euros? These are the evidence. That's right, Mr. Loverdos! Are you going to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u388	That's yours! You see it at night!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u389	These are the evidence. Contracts have now been signed. Trikalon Hospital is now signed! I understand it's bothering you. But answer us from now on: are we doing well to save money to give other health actions and at the same time to raise the wages of cleaners in hospitals? Yes or no? You don't answer that. All you say is whether we should condemn what Mr Paulakis said about justice. And since we say what Mr Paulakis said about justice, I see that justice does not want it very much, because I see it as follows: 'Seriously, the question arises: 'The appeals of the acquittal decisions of the competent judicial boards and the re-referral to a trial of the former President of the ETUC Mr Georgios'. So PASOK is afraid and defensive, because it probably understands that the 2009 case will again be looked at, the case of deficit growth. There will be another search for what we have said, namely that the growth of the deficits that ELSTAT has done has led us to the memorials. And in this PASOK says that, in other words, justice has done as it stands. However, Paulis speaks wrongly of justice. But when you're talking about justice, it's not bad. And against that the New Democracy has not written a word. He does not answer whether or not justice has done and dismissed the acquittals in favour of Mr Georgiou and is bringing him back for a malicious act, for the expansion of the ELSTAT's deficit. Are you going to answer us? We asked you yesterday. And yesterday I tabled Mr Michalakis' article saying that Mr Mitsotakis imposes radio silence on the New Democracy on this matter. You're not answering!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u390	You're asking me that, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u391	No, I'm not asking you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u392	Please ask me!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u393	No, I'm not asking you. I won't even mention your name! Well, you're coming back to CSCE again. Let me remind you that Mr. Hardouvelis' email...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u394	Listen to Mr. Mada!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u395	Let go of it! First of all, Hardouveli was the government's proposal. It wasn't the deal. Secondly, in the mail Hardouveli you wisely said that we would see the status of the CSCE again. What it meant was that you will abolish the ESS. And anyway, with Mr.4336, whom you voted for, the CSCE was abolished. And that, to leave the escapades. From there on, then, it is a question of how we see social policy, a really difficult decision for us. So we came and brought in some extra measures to protect these people who lost the CSCE. We protect those with a disability greater than 80%, we protect the families to which both CSR has lost - and now only one - we give it a feeding card, as well as a full exemption from participation in drugs. You'd never do that. You did eleven continuous reductions and you didn't think about these people at all. And from there on, you're talking about supplementary pensions. You said that the zero deficit clause would cut supplementary pensions very little. He would've cut them more than 30%. There are relevant decisions which the Minister for Labour had not signed at the time and he had told the House. Anyway, you're talking about an unjust and unnecessarily inappropriate memorandum. Can I remind you something? You handed over a 0.2% surplus on target 1%. You handed us empty funds, deficit funds, 550 million euros in deficit funds! Furthermore, in 2015 we had to have 4.5% surplus. This meant further measures than those taken by 20 billion euros. Suddenly you tell us that 21 billion euros were lost from the country's GDP. Really, 0.2% of GDP remission how is 21 billion euros coming out? What math are you doing? Well, I'm going to another thing now. Mr Loverdes asked what we have done and what we are doing about fuel. So what did we do about fuel? While there was L.4177/2013, the ministerial decisions had not been made. Therefore, on 15-12-2015, we reached the Joint Ministerial Decision 4169 ‘Input-output system in the free fuel installations’. Ministerial decisions are enforceable, because the law, as you know, could not be implemented. Ministerial decisions had to be made. Apart from the one I told you, the HSH 4169 come out, and the HSH 4170/15-10-2015 "Input-output and GPS systems on fuel-supply waterways", the HSH 1160-27-4-2016 "Requirements and requirements for the approval of fuel-supply waterways" and is issued by the HSH for the detection of liquid fuels. That's what we're doing. You voted for a bill - we have repeatedly said that the bill was well passed - but it could not be implemented. From 2013 to 2014, you didn't get off the C.T.A.s. We took them off. That is what we have done to control fuels. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nektarios Santorinios, presents for the minutes the above document, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You referred to revenue. Of course, I have not heard you mention any of the revenues from the last six months, where we have exceeded the targets by much, EUR 954 million for the six-month period. For the seven months, including July, we have exceeded the targets for revenue by EUR 621 million. Also, it is very important that additional tax refunds were made in the seven months as a whole. We exceeded the refund target by EUR 360 million, and in particular in July, while the target was EUR 208 million, EUR 388 million was reimbursed, i.e. EUR 180 million in excess. This means that we are reducing government debts. Isn't that a good thing? Isn't that moving the economy? Isn't that the point? So I understand that when there are some publications you make use of them, because they are probably benefiting you, but from that point on, we must also see the reality. The reality says that we are far above the targets and on revenues and on tax refunds. And that is good for both the economy and business, because we are beginning to increase tax refunds. Finally - to close slowly - when the amendment of the Ministry of National Defence for ODA was discussed, Mrs Bakoyannis began complaining about the recruitments that will take place in ODA and said - and quite rightly in my view - that we should prioritise our priorities, because priority is health, priority is education and from there and beyond to see all the rest. I fully agree with you. So we agree and do what Mrs Bakoyannis said. For the first time three and a half thousand people are recruited, three and a half thousand health workers, which has not happened in the past five years. And that's where we gave priority. For the first time, we have already ensured for twenty-one thousand alternates now - and the process has gone ahead - and in September the schools will have substitutes and will be ready. That was a commitment by Mr. Friend. Resources were secured and therefore in September we will not have any problems with schools. That's what we're doing. From there on, as the Minister said, for EAW the money will go on the basis of the projects that exist. Therefore, even this time, you may not be able to compare yourself to the fact that, for the first time, we are actually bringing a bill, which is very important in the fight against interaction and corruption, which has been done through concessions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u396	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u397	Wait. Parliamentary representatives have not been completed. We have Mr. Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u398	But I don't want to talk to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u399	What do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u400	I want to give an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u401	Why do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u402	Because my colleague put it in a personal tone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u403	What personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u404	I'll tell you now. Give me the floor. I'll talk for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u405	Here, you have the floor, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u406	As far as I'm concerned, Mr. Majority's colleague, you're falsifying what I'm saying. That affects me personally. I criticized why it was revenue less or more? If you have even followed my last speeches and with Mr Alexiadis, you will see that I am asking. Because in case of an increase in revenue, you're chasing the market. I didn't make a judgment. I said it was the situation. Putting things in my mouth that I didn't say is not right at all. I don't catch every day's issues to raise. It is, however, a situation for which the government must speak. It's this revenue, less or more. That was my placement. And please, show some respect. Just like respect for Mrs. Jackie. I didn't say what you put in my mouth. I've talked about the increase in stubbornness. Because this increase in stalking is not being carried over to the entire circuit. Why just at the station? That's what I said. I have not mentioned any ministerial decisions that you have taken. But since you mention it, are you applying ministerial decisions? It's not about setting up a legislative framework. It's like applying it. Finally, because you are taking the floor on matters relating to justice, I beg your pardon, you should know that the increase in the deficit for 2009, especially in its last phase, was 2% by the troika. And that was not desirable from the point of view of the Greek Government. That was the evidence. And it was not desirable, because every 0.5% of the deficit was increasing, that meant measures, colleagues. So keep in mind what you're saying. If you have decided as SYRIZA to intervene in justice for good and evil, it is your issue. But the Constitution says other things.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u407	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u408	Come on, and we'll close up here with the controversy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u409	Well, to restore two things. You asked a question about what is going on with the rest of the matter, the rest of the fuel chain. So I told you that ministerial decisions were made, applying the law that you had passed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u410	I told you about the criminal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u411	I mentioned the ministerial decisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u412	But ministerial decisions don't regulate criminality. The legislator does that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u413	Come on, Mr. Loverdo, now. Since 10:00 we're here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u414	I mentioned what we have done in the field of fuel smuggling. Is it bad? Shouldn't that sound? Secondly, I mentioned the budgetary figures for both the six months and the seven months. How it is judged, will be judged by all of us, and how you set out the facts. For me too, it's the way I quoted the evidence. Thirdly, the PASOK communication is critical of justice. They're not my words.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u415	Mr Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor for twelve minutes, to close with the parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u416	Thank you, Madam President. However, I must say that I had a concern about whether or not to speak, because the picture of the debate is regrettable, at least, this controversy of criticism and a fight against the shadow. Excuse me, Mr. Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA, are you celebrating the revenue? Are you serious? Who's paying the revenue? Does not the people's strata, which you have, literally, ripped away from taxation, when the revenues from legal persons are limited, even from what you predict? The revenues are 5% of legal persons in all tax revenues, and they are deficient. And are you celebrating who raises the tax revenues people pay for? But is that possible? Are you celebrating why you are achieving the budget targets by reducing pension reductions to subsidiary and by reducing social security funding? Are these the issues you're celebrating for? Are you celebrating that you better implement individual cleaning contracts? But is that possible? And consider it a success too? Who? Individual contracts, the worst form of employment, of course, after the contractor. So you're celebrating this issue and saying you're doing some kind of feat that takes 380 euros for five hours of work?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u417	It's 750 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u418	Is it 380 euros for five hours working, are things specifically, have no leave allowance, have no benefit for a dangerous and unhealthy person who cannot take maternity leave and maternity leave? Is it possible to celebrate these issues and say that everything is well-burned, the most horrendous forms of employment, not characterised by their profession of heavy and unhealthy, which have no insurance cover? And you think all these things are great? But do you not have a little respect for the situation the people's family faces today, the working class, these cleaners, instead of doing permanent and stable work both in schools and in hospitals and everywhere? Do you generalize the elastic forms of employment everywhere and the rental workers? Your provisions are for rented workers at the Public Property Rating Fund, which can also hire rented workers. Two to three months ago the Fund bill was passed. From this point of view, then, it is clear that the particular bill we are discussing now - and I will say two words, because we have said it yesterday, Mr Minister, it is a follow-up to yesterday's draft law that we have debated - incorporates into national law - the European law on public procurement. On the substance, it opens the market. The opening-up of the market means a monopoly on the market. In whatever areas this thing has become, the market has been singled out. On air transport how many large companies control European airspace? They are three - four airlines at pan-European level and the rest are their satellites. In telecommunications we have a corresponding phenomenon. In energy, both in construction and in public procurement and in public concessions, it will be the image that will be shaped in the next period. The opening-up of the market therefore means sound rules. Multiethnics can define their terms - they also define the need to open up the markets - to concentrate on less and less hands on pie and monopolize the market. Who wins from this process of opening up the market? Multiethnics, big business are winning. The rest at best will be converted into their subcontractors. And the one who is permanently lost, the one who will be called to pay multiples are the popular layers. For example, in the transfer agreements, if we take the major construction projects on the construction side as well as on the part of the use, for example, while maintaining the reactionary logic 'user pays'. Anyone with money can pay, have good infrastructure. The rest of you with the Arab in the 21st century. That is the reactionary logic imposed by monopolies in the European Union. And you consider the logic of 'user pays' progressively to be a step-by-step measure. And today, for the construction of the major roads, the taxpayer pays state participation, also as a user of the projects concerned, the roads, before they are even built and if they are built through concessions. Moreover, the oxymobile of the whole case is that the State directly intervenes in ensuring their profitability to the construction groups. And it ensures it through the blackmails made by the groups that have given them the projects to revise the contract, because they do not come out, by paying the so-called 'high-priced's. If you are younger or older, it is of little importance, Minister. Because in this way, the only thing you safeguard is the interests of business groups and their profitability. The second question is that the logic of trade everywhere in all areas of social life is generalised by concessions. Everything is commercialised and exploited for the sole purpose of profitability of business groups. And much more - and you are proud of this - that you want to strengthen the businesses that are active in the so-called'social economy', the so-called COMPAs, which do nothing but provide even more basic needs for the health, welfare and culture of the people's family. And you consider this to be a positive development, as a positive step. To finish, because I don't want to get far, we said what our logic for big projects is. Our rapporteur spoke yesterday and today about the proposal for a law on the single construction operator. I shall end by referring to two amendments: one is the one concerning the smuggling of fuels, which in essence provides for stricter penalties, but only for the smuggling cycle. It is not just a smuggling ring. There is also the refining circuit and the induction circuit. Here we need to see the whole thing, because it is the biggest part. Don't just stay on the one link of the chain. We need to look at the whole question of stricter penalties. Of course, it is not a measure by which you can smuggle smuggling - you may reduce it - when it is based on illegal profit. Whether legal or illegal, the profit wants to ensure. Secondly, there is a high tax burden through the indirect taxes on fuel, when more than 70% of the final price paid by the consumer is taxes, whether VAT or excise on fuel. We shall vote for this amendment, but also with some reservations and reservations, as regards the general logic of the strictness of penalties many times, which leaves scope for arbitrary action, on the other hand, because it has nothing to do with the question of retailing alone. The second amendment to which I should like to refer is a parliamentary amendment that you accepted, which concerns Elefsinas shipyards. We cannot vote on this amendment, Mr Ministers. It's very general. It says that seizures on the hands of credit institutions that have been submitted to the detriment of the Elefsina shipyards up to 27 July 2016 are automatically lifted. For what purpose are they withdrawn? So, can the Tavoularis go and take the money and do whatever he wants? Or should we say that they are lifted automatically in order to get paid, to pay the employees' wages at the shipyards? Identify it. And there are criminal responsibilities for anyone who does not. This general lifting of seizures says nothing about bank accounts. You need to make that specific. Because other such arrangements have been made in the past - and you know that very well - but the situation of the Elefsina shipyards has not improved. The delays and their dues are increasing. So we say you do it more specific. Do not let it be general, because this businessman can take the money and do what he wants - he does not guarantee us anything - and specificize this provision, so that we too can vote on it. That is to say that seizures relating to the payroll and the payment of employees at the shipyard are being lifted. Or put a designation on it anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u419	Madam President, may I clarify something?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u420	Mr. Vitch has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u421	I am simply taking the floor because I think that all parties in this House should vote for this amendment. Three accounts have been seized at Elefsina Shipyard. The two accounts have zero-0,25, you know - and the third account has 2 million regarding the Navy, i.e. orders from the Hellenic Navy in substance for the "Myconium" ship and so on. In consultation with the Secretariat-General for Public Revenue this amendment is needed in order to remove these 2 million effectively, with the agreement that they will only go in two directions - they cannot go to others, that is to say, there is in the contract - first to pay workers and, secondly, to take certain parts of no lesser value. That's the point. We cannot now put one, two, three things into the law. We put that on. It's specific.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u422	Madam President, may I ask the Minister one question?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u423	Here you go, Mr. Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u424	This money that's in this one account, who's gonna get it and distribute it? The businessman? Because it does not guarantee us anything, in our view, that it will be distributed, as you say, in wages and in spare parts. Because other times in the past, things have been done and they have not gone the money where they should go, on the basis of the contracts they have signed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u425	Your concern is reasonable, which is why we will also monitor it, but also the trade union movement within the shipyards.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u426	But the trade union movement is concerned, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u427	What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u428	I say to you that the trade union movement was ready to come this morning to make a demonstration, say, precisely for this amendment, so that this amendment could come in. That's why I'm telling you it's 2 million and it's about this thing. It is very specific and I think you should vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u429	Mr. Amyras has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u430	Then will we talk, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u431	Mr. Amyras, there's no one else.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u432	We have, the rapporteurs, our abbreviations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u433	Oh, no. We have exceeded time too much. It doesn't make any sense now for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u434	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u435	It's just, Madam President, that it's the tire procedures, that is, compressed tire...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u436	Why are they compressed? Why? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u437	How? It's an emergency procedure. It is not normal procedures, so give us a little time in Parliament to say two things, especially on the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u438	We have not been placed on the amendments, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u439	Well, first of all, as I see Mrs Jackson here, Minister, on the amendment you have put to us on the issue of fuels, stations and the tightening up of penalties, and I do not just understand how the tightening up of penalties will lead to better results, when you do not explain how in the chain the whole movement - first refining and relocation - of fuel will be a barrier to smuggling. And since you're here, please don't tell us much, as you or the previous ministers, your co-legislators, what are the accounting figures from the fight against the smuggling of fuel, since the day you took over - I mean, not as PASOK, I mean, as government SYRIZA - so far, in these eighteen months? That's the first question, Mrs. Jack. Secondly, Mr Spirtzis is not here now, but I would like to address Mr Spirtz and say this to him on the subject of television licences: I do not know, ladies and gentlemen, if you have understood with the amendment incorporated into Article 71 of this draft law for the extension for eighteen months of the deadline for declaring the antennas from radio stations. You probably don't understand what you're doing. Here we have a quasi-minor extension of the country's temporary licences or non-authorisation of radio stations. You are seventeen months of government and you are bringing us a third extension for radios to declare their antenna systems and start the competitive process. In other words, you say - look - for thirty-five months - if you have been long for the next eighteen months - the radios in this country will operate with the status you denounce when it comes to television. I cannot understand how Mr Spirtz rocks SKAI. It goes up, for example, at the Step and says "the truth is called" and "SCAI"...". I don't understand. Amid a competitive process, a Minister rocks a TV channel? Why? Does he want to premium someone else? And anyway, the truth is, yes. And it's simple. They will close at least four television stations with the current government regulation and the National Broadcasting Council outside the dance. We denounce that. It should be a different licence, but above all the ministers should be held up. I will not give the permission to say that one of my best friends will not say 'I will not give the permission' and will certainly qualify for the best man. And the other best man says "but that channel is bad, we'll do it." This is not a responsible ministerial attitude. Now, in relation to the amendment you have put forward for individual contracts of employment in cleanliness and guarding, you are doing well and save money. I'm with you, I'm telling you. But here we have two issues. First, do you - the SYRIZA - mean - are you not saying that the individual employment contracts are far from complete? In order to justify the regulation, the Minister told us that we were bringing in - and I will say - the galley, because there was a worse galley. Plastic, fake labour contracts, women and men of cleanliness and care went to the company, to the contractor and paid half of what was to be paid, and I ask you this: will you be dealing with this kind of working middle age? How? What are you going to do in the private sector? Will you go and turn all those individuals into individual contracts of employment, the people who work to contractors, security and cleaning companies for factories or offices? What are you going to do with private people? What are you going to do with private sector workers? I would like to add something more. You know, ladies and gentlemen, how many are the special inspectors who control black and undeclared work throughout Greece? I'm sure you can't think about it. They're twenty-four and all fifty and they're in training. This information was announced by the Labour Inspectors' Body. So I ask, what have you done in this area? And I will conclude: I did not want to mention it, but there has been a lot of talk here about the so-called 'oppositers' who entered Metropolis. Which entrance? They "dou"dou" in Metropolis, Thessaloniki. First of all, I would like to ask my dear colleagues not to be called 'opposites'. These are 'powerful's. With the threat of violence, they use their own filthy, black power at the expense of anyone. So one of the prisoners. These "powerful" therefore found for three days a deafening silence from the government, which did not come out to denounce. So I say to you, when various other groups of "powerholders" - I will say, rather than "oppositionists" - took over the offices of SYRIZA throughout Greece, SYRIZA immediately made an announcement. For the occupation, will the government say nothing about entering a place of worship? Did Mr. Friend come out after three days? Don't you feel an emotiveness?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u440	Finish, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u441	I shall conclude, Madam President, and thank you for the time, but I have told you that we have a little chance. What I told you about radio antennas also applies to rights in the 24.5 to 26.5 GHz band. They also apply to mobile antennas. We're waiting for answers. We rivers are here so that we do not let you either get away with it, nor leave you in a green clam when we see such a piece of legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u442	Madam President, I would like a minute's speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u443	Mr. Kegeroglu, you're a speaker. You have no right to secondary.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u444	Does the speakers not have the right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u445	Of course not. This is where I don't give the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u446	You don't give anymore they don't have the right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u447	Yes, because, Mr. Kegeroglu, be careful to see, here are ministers who have three-speakings, parliamentary representatives who have three-speaking speeches, and you want to go to 21:00, because suddenly...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u448	We don't take away their right...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u449	I remove it because there's a sense of economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u450	It's our job. We're MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u451	The Members of Parliament have no right to speak, no power, no matter what.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u452	The decision made by the Conference of Presidents is for tomorrow's bill. For today there is no limit. So I'd say you give me the floor for a minute. Just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u453	There is the limit of the extermination of the employees.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u454	If you want, you give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u455	Because the Rules of Procedure do not provide for this, Mr Kegeroglu, I do not want to give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u456	Madam President, give him a minute of the time that I am entitled to.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u457	But you're all gonna have the floor. It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u458	We all want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u459	The House can decide!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u460	Yes, we should call the Constitution now. Mr. Amyras, a lot of democracy now!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u461	Why? Is democracy bad?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u462	No, it's not a matter. I can run the conversation with ten people. Let's just say it's a thousand to call the others. Come on, Mr. Kegeroglu, let's see what you're going to tell us in one minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u463	The figures mentioned by my colleague do not correspond to the reality. They are only the inspectors who have placed IKA in the APRC. It's not an A.T.D.'s in it. The figure is large, even though there are shortcomings. We must make that clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u464	IKA loses 5 billion a year on black work.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u465	It doesn't control black work just the IKA. It's controlled by the Labour Inspectors' Corps. In any case, it needs to be staffed further. You're right about that. I'll say two words. Mr Spirtz referred to an issue that I raised that we really need to protect the political leaders who are in charge of project award procedures. I said features that it would not prove that it did not intervene, and I mean in the debate on the day after day. I specifically referred to it. The Minister made an honest effort. He couldn't convince us. And he couldn't convince us because there are always gray sides. That is why the legislation must be clear, with rules, so that it is genuinely inconsistent. Mr Brutsis, the Technical Chamber did not exist at the time Mr Spirtzis was headed - I mean his role, that he did not have the role - nor now. And I would ask you to report to me a TEI communication, which has intervened in the diagrams that are currently being carried out. Tomorrow there's a process at the Ministry of Infrastructure. On a public works council a 13 million-dollar gift will be discussed for a specific contractor. The project is a total of 38 million in total and they want to give it a supplementary, without a competition, 13 million. I didn't see any announcement from the TEI! So contact your competitor president of the TEI and tell him that his role is also advisor to the Ministry of Infrastructure, as well as to the auditor! He can't do anything Mr. Spirtz wants to give 13 million euros an extra contract without a competition on a specific project! This issue is being discussed tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u466	Good. Now let everyone say at the end anything, get us all up and answer. Mrs. Jackrey, you answer now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u467	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would also like to reply to Mr Amyras' remarks, but also to the points made earlier by Mr Lovers. Listen, Mr Amyras, this legislative initiative with the amendment really comes to cover a very important gap in the fuel market, which has been demonstrated precisely by the checks carried out for the first time in the course of a long time, Mr Amyras, in our country. All these checks were carried out this year. What did this reality show? We're not just tightening the sentences, Mr. Amyras. We also prohibit the withdrawal of the licence in this sense and the issue of a young person not only to the natural person itself, but also to an extended circle of persons up to the relatives of the second degree and, in general, because we are introducing the concept - as I said earlier in my prototype - of operational exploitation, a circle of persons responsible for the operation of the company in question, the agency. Why are we doing this? Because so far, the reality and the current situation have shown that a particular wrongdoer, a smuggler - to say him by his name because we are talking about them - closed his business at a certain point and the next day just appeared himself or through the people of his family next door, with a similar business or company that continued to do the same. So, just to stop, as I said in my protology, this cat game with the mouse, we brought this amendment to close this cycle of infraction.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u468	After we told you we were going to vote on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u469	I would also like to say to you and to Mr Loverdos, who has heard him put beforehand, that your positions are perfectly predictable. Indeed, by making a reduction in the future, I had imagined what the old political system could bring together in a good and useful amendment that is put to the benefit of the entire Greek people, Mr Amyras. In fact, the reproach you make that this amendment deviates from perfection was perfectly predictable for me. Look at you: in the second paragraph of the amendment a party may be missing. So leave aside the cleverness of the political system and the pretexts and tell us whether you will vote for this amendment which solves a very important part of the value chain of the smuggling of these agencies, which is clearly about the Greek family, Mr Amyras. It's the most important part of it. I said before that that if we leave this system inconsistent, it is like leaving a human to pay twenty euros every day to put gasoline in his reservoir and finally take a product of sixteen or seventeen euros or a defective product. Then we really also cause harm to the health of the citizens, Mr Amyras, and to the poor incomes of the Greek family and allow this paradigm of smuggling to put its hand in the pocket of the Greek people every day. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u470	Madam President, I want the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u471	Wait. In a row. Mr. Spirjis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u472	This is personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u473	It's okay. Wait. There's no rush for the staff. Here, Mr. Spirtzi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u474	Would you like to precede, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u475	It's okay. There could be more staff, and I can talk about both of them together.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u476	So wait. You may use more. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u477	Mr. Amyra, let's get them one by one. In relation to radio, as you know, for years there has been no radio map. Secondly, we are not obliged by European legislation to have a digital broadcast on the radio. We still have a analogue show. He has arranged for the Ministry, has given the radio frequency map to the relevant bodies to make comments. Don't be in a hurry. It will also enter this classroom, as will take order on television stations, and this will include analogue and digital broadcasting. This does not mean, however, that we will allow radio stations' antennas not to be registered and that we do not give people the right in a reasonable time to apply for them to be legalised and that situation exists. The second issue is mobile telephony. There, you who are and defenders of the independent regulators - and I, as long as they are truly independent - should go ahead with a criticism of how this regulator functioned and how independent it was, because these competitions had to have been completed for a long time and should not have allowed them to end. What we cover is the public interest, which means that until the competitions are completed, these frequencies cannot be used either illegally or without the price that comes from the last tender by the specific companies that have won the tender. The third, Madam President, Mr Kegeroglu said: I would really be very happy with the work I have at the Ministry if I could monitor both the hundreds of committees and the agenda. I think that with the institutional framework that exists and which we have established in the last two days, but which has also existed in the past, there is such transparency and participation by all the bodies that the Minister wants to do something, and it cannot. It will therefore be good when criticism is made, and if we have to correct some procedures in the composition of the committees, we are at your disposal, but we will have to stop the sludge in the fan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u478	Mr. Amyura, are you insisting on the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u479	Very quickly, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u480	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u481	Dear Mrs. Jack, I was really impressed by your attempt to classify me - who, me, Amyra - in the old political system. And I want to ask, where do you rank yourself? Overnight? In the alien? Aren't you the champions of the Pascal line, were you PASOK MP? You voted for the first Memorandum, the second Memorandum, the third Memorandum. If he had a fourth, you'd vote. You are the champion of the memorials, but leave the memorials.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u482	I'm looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u483	In relation to the term "smart" you launched me, I would like to say that you probably belong to 30% of the Greeks, according to an OECD study, who have a problem of understanding the text or perception of a conversation. What I said about your amendment is that we will support it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u484	Oh, good!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u485	So you took one amendment, as you said about Amyras, as you said, I don't know what. In any case, I hope the staff are finished. If you want to answer me and I'll answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u486	It's enough for me to vote on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u487	That's good again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u488	Mr. Mitaris has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u489	Thank you very much, Madam President. I have asked for the floor for a second reading to be placed on the amendments which I did not make in my prototype. There are seven amendments which the government accepts and I will tell you briefly about each of them and why. For the 610, for the legislative improvements to Law 4404/2016 introduced by Mr. Dritsa, we will vote "residents". It is an example, however, of the carelessness with which we legislate, the fact that it has had to bring legal improvements to a bill that we voted on a few days ago. Yesterday we had an emergency bill. Today we have an emergency. Tomorrow we have an emergency. The Rules of Procedure shall not apply to the whole of the following. We are doing a little of this and Mr Dritsas is forced to come today - in his honor - to admit that it has been wrong and to pass this amendment. For 613 Mr. Davakis was placed. We are voting 'no'. For the 620, for the transfer of the phantom bay to the Attica Region, we will vote 'no' for a very important reason. A design, a specific program with specific resources, has not been presented for the benefit of this unique lung for Attica for a year and a half. At first he was at the company "PARAKIO METOPO", then you went with your law to ETAD, then went to the supervising room, then went to the Ministry of Justice with a parliamentary amendment. Now he's going to Attica district. Make a plan, present it, and we'll support it. At 623, for the Financial Stability Fund, we will vote'residents'. The last moment they saw that they had a problem setting up the Fund and were forced at the last minute to bring an amendment to correct this mistake. For 629, on the right of the Ministry of Infrastructure to conclude individual cleaning contracts, when we voted against a few weeks ago - if I am not mistaken - the corresponding amendments of the Ministry of Labour, we predicted that each ministry would ask to copy the same procedures, by hiring and creating new jobs in the public sector - which we all know cannot handle - and by creating individual contracts that you should have reacted at least ideologically. As far as 628 is concerned, Minister, you are wrong with what you are doing today. If what you are saying is a great reform, a great effort that you are doing at the Ministry, you are wronging yourself as a late amendment without calling on the bodies to welcome this important work that you are doing. I understand that these issues are urgent and need to be discussed. However, this amendment could have been incorporated by the committee, as did Articles 71, 72, 73 and 74 and the relevant bodies. It would honor your work if it is as revolutionary as you say. However, as it appeared in the debate today, all it does is increase the criminality of some acts - rightly so - but it does not address the widespread problem of smuggling that exists at all stages of the process. We don't touch the rest of the stages. That is why we shall vote 'at present'. However, I cannot take the floor from something you said, that in the past the bad governments of the previous periods have imposed an increase in taxation, a reduction in costs and pensions instead of making it easy, the simple, to catch smuggling. [[At this point the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] So since we are voting on this amendment today, I would like Mr Tsakalotos to present us tomorrow with what taxes we are reducing tomorrow and what pensions we are increasing tomorrow. After we caught the smuggling - the amendment will pass today - for Mr Tsakalots to come tomorrow, Mr President, to the urgent procedure and bring an amendment to budgetary profits. For example, will ENVIRONMENT be reduced this year by 20% after your amendment? Let's come tomorrow and vote. Then we will congratulate you, in practice, for actually getting new revenues for the Greek State and lowering the tax burden. But I did not see any tax provision at all. I hope he'll be here tomorrow. However, we need a comprehensive approach to this problem. And of course we will support it. As far as Amendment No 627, it is often the case at this part-session that legislative amendments should be tabled which seem to be practically government amendments. That is not bad, but it is often treated a little distractively. You remember when you, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, were running, with the amendment that I mentioned before about the fascist cove. We passed it as a parliamentarian, it was ministerial, and finally your MPs did not want it. It didn't finally apply. There is a legislative improvement here that needs to be done. I told Mr Stathakis because this amendment has been written a little bit too badly. I cannot say that the observation made by the Communist Party of Greece is not important. The point is important. We are all aware of the need to remove these seizures and we are voting 'yes' in 627 because you need to operate the shipyards, but as this parliamentary amendment is simpler than that it ensures. As always within time. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u490	Thank you very much, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u491	Mr President, I would like to speak for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u492	Would you like a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u493	It is very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u494	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u495	Mr. Metarakis, why do you blame yourself? First of all, I said to you that I was alone in saying in my amendment that the fight to combat and combat smuggling in fuel stations, which is my responsibility and so far I can speak, does not stop by voting on this amendment. In no case shall any struggle to combat smuggling begins and ends with the strictening of the institutional framework. I said earlier that, yes, we are tightening up the institutional framework and controls, we are also stricting administrative sanctions and fines, as well as removing the authorisation and banning the issue of new ones. I have said, however, that we are already stepping up controls in the direction of radically dealing with the phenomenon of smuggling in a way of totalitarianity, not dealing with it in a rough and fragmentary way, and that is a regression in the future. So you are also wrong with yourself, and you are wrong with us, who have the clear political will to smuggle the smuggling, trying to get Mr Tsakalotos to bring you results in the country's budgetary revenues only from voting on this amendment tomorrow. Honestly, what I said earlier about the pretexts, intelligence and excuses that the political system invents so that it does not vote for a good amendment, which is commonly called and according to yours, because they deviate from perfection, I think it also applies to you. All of what I have said before is true of Mr Amyras and Mr Loverdos, because you confirm me in everything I have said by voting for'represents' in a confessed and, in your view, a good amendment. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u496	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u497	Mr Mitarakis, I will give you the floor, but with the little hints made every time by anyone who can continue this confrontation one more hour. I just made the observation. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u498	It's not personal. I've left half a minute left. I'll take that one minute. Minister, within your responsibilities you may reach the top of the chain that you can deal with. We need to help other ministries, perhaps. However, I would remind you of the programming statements in January 2015. Some astronomical amounts had been heard from the then Minister for the fight against corruption that they would be collected by summer. Eighteen months have elapsed, we have voted for a third memorandum, today the ESS has been cut, and in the end this tale will come from smuggling, I am sorry to say, as a taxpayer, I do not see it. I see taxes coming, pensions falling, amendments passing. I can't see a result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u499	Thank you, Mr. Metarakis. Ladies and gentlemen, the list of interventions by all actors in today's debate has been closed. The debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism is hereby terminated: ‘Revision and execution of concessions - Harmonisation by Directive 2014/23/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the award of concessions (OJ L 94/1/28.3.2014) and other provisions’. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u500	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u501	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u502	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u503	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u504	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u505	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u506	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u507	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u508	Therefore, the draft law of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism: ‘Revision and execution of concession contracts — Harmonisation with Directive 2014/23/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the award of concession contracts (OJ L 94/1/28.3.2014) and other provisions’ was accepted in principle by a majority. Ladies and gentlemen, before we enter the articles' vote, we should make a consultation. The Bureau proposes the following: Articles are seventy-four. Of these seventy-four articles, five have been amended. I suggest that we vote on the unamended articles in an overall way - since we have voted in a concrete way on the draft law - and then on one - on the amended articles and immediately on the amendments, so that we can save time and make the process more concrete and substantial. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u509	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u510	Here you go, Mr. Vardalis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u511	We need to turn it back, because in advance we do not know what the amended ones are. First we have to vote for the amended ones and then all the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u512	I have the impression that we're going to get more difficult like this. I listen very seriously to your remark, just now the amended ones are 5, 39, 54, 60 and 67.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u513	If we know, it can be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u514	Let the Bureau do it as he thinks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u515	You're welcome. I didn't hear you, Mr. Comrade. Help out a little bit to do the process and save time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u516	Mr President, as you say it will be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u517	Yeah, but you don't know the modified ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u518	It's 5, 39, 54, 60 and 67. I think the proposal is thorough, Mr President. Honestly. We are entering the motion for a resolution. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u519	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u520	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u521	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u522	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u523	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u524	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u525	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u526	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u527	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u528	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u529	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u530	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u531	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u532	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u533	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u534	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u535	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u536	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u537	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u538	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u539	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u540	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u541	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u542	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u543	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u544	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u545	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u546	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u547	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u548	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u549	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u550	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u551	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u552	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u553	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u554	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 5 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u555	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u556	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u557	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u558	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u559	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u560	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u561	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u562	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u563	Article 5 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u564	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u565	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u566	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u567	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u568	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u569	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u570	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u571	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u572	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u573	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u574	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u575	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u576	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u577	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u578	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u579	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u580	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u581	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u582	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u583	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u584	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u585	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u586	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u587	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u588	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u589	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u590	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u591	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u592	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u593	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u594	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u595	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u596	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u597	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u598	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u599	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u600	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u601	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u602	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u603	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u604	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u605	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u606	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u607	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u608	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u609	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u610	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u611	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u612	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u613	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u614	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u615	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u616	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u617	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u618	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u619	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u620	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u621	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u622	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u623	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u624	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u625	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u626	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u627	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u628	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u629	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u630	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u631	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u632	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u633	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u634	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u635	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u636	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u637	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u638	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u639	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u640	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u641	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u642	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u643	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u644	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u645	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u646	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u647	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u648	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u649	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u650	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u651	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u652	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u653	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u654	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u655	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u656	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u657	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u658	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u659	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u660	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u661	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u662	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u663	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u664	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u665	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u666	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u667	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u668	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u669	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u670	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u671	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u672	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u673	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u674	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u675	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u676	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u677	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u678	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u679	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u680	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u681	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u682	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u683	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u684	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u685	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u686	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u687	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u688	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u689	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u690	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u691	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u692	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u693	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u694	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u695	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u696	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u697	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u698	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u699	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u700	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u701	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u702	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u703	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u704	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u705	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u706	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u707	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u708	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u709	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u710	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u711	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u712	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u713	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u714	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u715	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u716	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u717	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u718	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u719	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u720	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u721	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u722	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u723	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u724	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u725	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u726	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u727	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u728	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u729	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u730	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u731	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u732	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u733	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u734	Article 24 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u735	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u736	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u737	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u738	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u739	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u740	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u741	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u742	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u743	Article 25 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u744	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u745	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u746	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u747	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u748	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u749	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u750	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u751	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u752	Article 26 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u753	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u754	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u755	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u756	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u757	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u758	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u759	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u760	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u761	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 28 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u762	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u763	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u764	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u765	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u766	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u767	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u768	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u769	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u770	Article 28 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 29 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u771	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u772	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u773	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u774	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u775	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u776	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u777	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u778	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u779	Article 29 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u780	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u781	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u782	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u783	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u784	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u785	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u786	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u787	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u788	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 31 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u789	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u790	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u791	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u792	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u793	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u794	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u795	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u796	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u797	Article 31 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u798	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u799	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u800	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u801	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u802	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u803	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u804	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u805	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u806	Article 32 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 33 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u807	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u808	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u809	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u810	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u811	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u812	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u813	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u814	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u815	Article 33 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u816	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u817	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u818	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u819	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u820	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u821	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u822	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u823	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u824	Article 34 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 35 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u825	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u826	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u827	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u828	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u829	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u830	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u831	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u832	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u833	Article 35 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 36 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u834	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u835	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u836	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u837	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u838	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u839	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u840	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u841	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u842	Article 36 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 37 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u843	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u844	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u845	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u846	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u847	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u848	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u849	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u850	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u851	Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 38 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u852	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u853	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u854	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u855	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u856	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u857	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u858	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u859	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u860	Article 38 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 39 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u861	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u862	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u863	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u864	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u865	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u866	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u867	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u868	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u869	Article 39 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 40 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u870	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u871	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u872	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u873	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u874	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u875	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u876	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u877	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u878	Article 40 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 41 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u879	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u880	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u881	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u882	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u883	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u884	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u885	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u886	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u887	Article 41 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 42 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u888	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u889	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u890	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u891	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u892	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u893	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u894	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u895	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u896	Article 42 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 43 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u897	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u898	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u899	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u900	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u901	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u902	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u903	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u904	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u905	Article 43 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 44 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u906	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u907	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u908	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u909	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u910	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u911	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u912	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u913	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u914	Article 44 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 45 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u915	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u916	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u917	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u918	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u919	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u920	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u921	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u922	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u923	Article 45 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 46 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u924	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u925	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u926	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u927	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u928	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u929	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u930	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u931	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u932	Article 46 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 47 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u933	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u934	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u935	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u936	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u937	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u938	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u939	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u940	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u941	Article 47 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 48 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u942	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u943	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u944	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u945	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u946	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u947	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u948	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u949	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u950	Article 48 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 49 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u951	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u952	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u953	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u954	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u955	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u956	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u957	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u958	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u959	Article 49 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 50 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u960	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u961	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u962	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u963	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u964	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u965	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u966	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u967	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u968	Article 50 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Will Rule 51 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u969	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u970	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u971	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u972	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u973	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u974	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u975	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u976	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u977	Article 51 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 52 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u978	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u979	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u980	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u981	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u982	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u983	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u984	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u985	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u986	Article 52 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 53 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u987	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u988	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u989	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u990	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u991	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u992	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u993	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u994	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u995	Article 53 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 54 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u996	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u997	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u998	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u999	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1000	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1001	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1002	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1003	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1004	Article 54 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 55 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1005	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1006	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1007	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1008	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1009	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1010	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1011	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1012	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1013	Article 55 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 56 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1014	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1015	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1016	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1017	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1018	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1019	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1020	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1021	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1022	Article 56 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 57 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1023	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1024	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1025	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1026	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1027	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1028	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1029	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1030	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1031	Article 57 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 58 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1032	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1033	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1034	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1035	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1036	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1037	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1038	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1039	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1040	Article 58 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 59 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1041	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1042	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1043	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1044	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1045	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1046	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1047	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1048	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1049	Article 59 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 60 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1050	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1051	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1052	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1053	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1054	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1055	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1056	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1057	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1058	Article 60 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 61 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1059	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1060	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1061	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1062	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1063	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1064	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1065	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1066	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1067	Article 61 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 62 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1068	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1069	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1070	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1071	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1072	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1073	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1074	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1075	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1076	Article 62 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 63 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1077	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1078	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1079	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1080	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1081	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1082	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1083	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1084	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1085	Article 63 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 64 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1086	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1087	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1088	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1089	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1090	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1091	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1092	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1093	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1094	Article 64 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 65 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1095	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1096	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1097	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1098	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1099	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1100	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1101	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1102	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1103	Article 65 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 66 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1104	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1105	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1106	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1107	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1108	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1109	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1110	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1111	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1112	Article 66 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 67 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1113	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1114	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1115	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1116	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1117	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1118	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1119	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1120	Acceptable, accepted
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1121	Article 67 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 68 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1122	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1123	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1124	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1125	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1126	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1127	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1128	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1129	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1130	Article 68 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 69 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1131	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1132	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1133	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1134	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1135	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1136	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1137	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1138	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1139	Article 69 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 70 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1140	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1141	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1142	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1143	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1144	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1145	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1146	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1147	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1148	Article 70 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 71 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1149	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1150	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1151	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1152	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1153	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1154	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1155	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1156	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1157	Article 71 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 72 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1158	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1159	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1160	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1161	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1162	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1163	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1164	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1165	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1166	Article 72 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 73 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1167	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1168	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1169	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1170	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1171	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1172	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1173	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1174	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1175	Article 73 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 74 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1176	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1177	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1178	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1179	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1180	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1181	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1182	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1183	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1184	Article 74 was therefore accepted as a majority. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Is the amendment accepted under a general figure of 610 and a special figure of 60?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1185	Mr President, will you allow me to make a statement in the Minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1186	Of course, Mr. Vardalis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1187	Since this amendment relates to four paragraphs, we agree with paragraphs 2 and 3 and vote on them, but because the amendment is voted on uniformly, we disagree with paragraphs 1 and 4. That is why we shall be voting on 'APPROVAL'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1188	Is the amendment accepted under a general figure of 610 and a special figure of 60?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1189	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1190	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1191	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1192	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1193	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1194	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1195	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1196	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1197	So the amendment under general number 610 and a special 60 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 613 and a special number 62 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1198	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1199	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1200	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1201	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1202	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1203	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1204	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1205	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1206	The amendment, under general number 613 and special 62, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same articles. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 620 and a special number 69 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1207	Mr President, you will allow me to make a statement too. As for the second part of the amendment, for the concession of an area in Symi to local society, it is positive. It's just that the first strand for the Falific Fang has not been documented.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1208	Mr President, I would like to make a statement about Symi, because it goes to the trunk as a different article, Rule 79. If we vote both at the same time, then we are voting for the Symposium.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1209	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to help so that there is no confusion now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1210	Mr President, in the trunk of the bill that has been shared, the amendment goes to Rule 78. However, the amendment, because it also had a second paragraph, is referred to as Article 79 separately. So what are we going to vote for? If we vote on the single amendment, Article 78 we say 'OHN'...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1211	There is no 'Article 78'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1212	There is. If you see it in the trunk, these amendments are incorporated with a certain number of articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1213	Do we have an article 78?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1214	Mr President, the 'inflatable' amendment has been separated into two articles. We therefore need to vote on two separate articles. This is the 'inflatable' that you shared with us. The Falific Cove refers to Article 78, which we are voting against and the Symphony refers to Article 79, which we are voting on. That's a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1215	Mr Metarakis, the amendment has been tabled in a uniform manner.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1216	It is here that it is divided into the 'innards'. Somebody explains what's going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1217	The amendment is voted on as a single and in a uniform way, regardless of whether it will be voted on by a majority - which seems - or whether it will be separated as articles, as will the previous ones. The amendment is then tabled as an own-initiative article. Now it can be separated, but as an amendment it is of a uniform nature and as such we are voting on it. So the House asks: is the amendment accepted under a general number 620 and a special number 69 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1218	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1219	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1220	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1221	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1222	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1223	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1224	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1225	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1226	The amendment under a general number 620 and a special 69 was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same articles. Does the House accept the amendment under a general number 623 and a special number 72 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1227	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1228	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1229	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1230	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1231	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1232	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1233	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1234	Sustained.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1235	So the amendment under general number 623 and a special 72 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 624 and a special number 73?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1236	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1237	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1238	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1239	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1240	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1241	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1242	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1243	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1244	So the amendment under general number 624 and a special 73 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 625 and a special number 74 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1245	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1246	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1247	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1248	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1249	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1250	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1251	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1252	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1253	So the amendment under general number 625 and a special 74 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same articles. Does this House accept the amendment, with a general number of 628 and a special number 77 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1254	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1255	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1256	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1257	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1258	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1259	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1260	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1261	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1262	So the amendment under general number 628 and a special 77 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of 599 and a specialist of 54 in its own right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1263	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1264	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1265	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1266	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1267	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1268	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1269	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1270	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1271	So the amendment under a general number of 599 and a special 54 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of 609 and a special number of 59?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1272	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1273	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1274	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1275	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1276	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1277	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1278	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1279	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1280	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 609 and a special number 59 were accepted as it is unanimously adopted and is part of the draft law as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 618 and a special number 67 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1281	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1282	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1283	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1284	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1285	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1286	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1287	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1288	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1289	So the amendment under general number 618 and a special 67 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Before we proceed to the vote on Amendment Nos 627 and 76, Mr Minister, I would like to ask you whether you have any legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1290	Mr President, the phrase 'Article 32' which is repeated twice. He has to leave as headline in the second sub-paragraph. That's exactly how it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1291	Yes, Minister. Does the House therefore accept the amendment by a general number of 627 and a special number 76, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1292	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1293	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1294	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1295	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1296	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1297	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1298	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1299	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1300	The amendment under a general number 627 and a special 76 were therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1301	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1302	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1303	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1304	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1305	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1306	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1307	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1308	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1309	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Therefore, the draft law of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism: ‘Revision and execution of concession contracts — Harmonisation with Directive 2014/23/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the award of concession contracts (OJ L 94/1/28.3.2014) and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority in principle and on the articles. It shall be postponed for another sitting. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-03-S1-commons.u1310	With the consent of the House at 17: 45 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, August 4, 2016 at 10: 00, on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, according to the supplementary agenda to be distributed.
