ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: In accordance with the Parliament’s authorisation of 27 July 2016, the minutes of its PR's PRACTICE meeting, of Wednesday 27 July 2016, concerning the resolution throughout the draft law: ‘Amendments to the National Customs Code to strengthen the fight against trafficking in tobacco and manufactured tobacco and the establishment of a Coordinating Centre for the Combating of Smuggling, the harmonisation of Greek legislation to Council Decision 2009/917/JHA of 30 November 2009 on the use of information technology for customs purposes and other provisions of the competence of the Ministry of Finance and the transposition into national legislation of Articles 15, 16 and 18 of Directive 2014/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco and related products and repealing Directive 2001/37/EC’.]] We enter the supplementary agenda of LEGISLATIVE WORK A sole debate and a vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: ‘Following the Council of Europe Convention on Cyber Crime and its Additional Protocol on the criminalisation of acts of a racist and xenophobic nature perpetrated through Computer Systems - Transposition into Greek law of Directive 2013/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on attacks on information systems and replacing Council Framework Decision 2005/222/JHA, arrangements for penal and anti-critical policy and other provisions’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting of 20 July 2016 to discuss the draft law at a meeting, uniform in principle, on articles and amendments. I would like to inform the House that the parties have appointed Parliamentary Representatives as follows: SYRIZA Mr. Tsirkas, New Democracy Mrs.Kerameos, the Golden Dawn of Mr. Lagos, the Democratic Assent of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theocharopoulos, the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Pafilis, Potami Mr. Amyras, the ANELs Mr. Papachristopoulos, the Association of Centres Mr. Saridis. As rapporteurs, SYRIZA has appointed Mr.Balomenakis, the New Democracy Mr.Javaras and special speakers, the Golden Dawn Mr. Germenis, the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Papatheodorou, the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Synthraki, Potami Mr. Fotimas, the ANELs Mr. Koskalis and the Association of Centres Mr. Karras. Parliamentary representatives shall be entitled to 12 minutes of protology, six minutes of dentology and three minutes of tritology. The rapporteurs and the special speakers are entitled to a five-minute and seven-and-a-half-minute protology. Mr Balomemakis, rapporteur of SYRIZA, has the floor in all these proceedings.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The debate on the draft law on ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on cybercrime and the Additional Protocol on criminalisation of acts of xenophobia and racism carried out by computer has been completed. As you have in mind, it is a very complex and complex piece of legislation. Some specific amendments have been made during the fruitful debate, from what has proved to be the case, by the Minister. We can say, in general terms, that, in its resolution, we will hand over a legislation that is modern, sound and useful in many respects, harmonized to social developments and to the area of dealing with crime. The specific nature of this debate has to do with the technological tool called internet, internet, computer systems that are, of course, and, in turn, would say, established in our lives as an important factor, an important parameter of the social, economic, intellectual and cultural life of modern humanity. It is an instrument which, without doubt, contributes to the people's approach, at the same time it may have as an unwanted effect the provision of a technological background, to commit unfair acts, many of which are newly emerging. Sometimes this very instrument, which is so useful, serves, is "valued" for the appearance, preservation, swelling, dispersal of views and actions that conceal and become racial discrimination or in inequalities that have their background to racism and xenophobia. Especially for this last issue to which the recent protocol refers, we have to say that the world community from the time, which, for the first time in 1948, adopted the Universal Declaration on Human Rights, has really taken many steps, especially in the European legislative field, and part of these conquests, one would say, is imprinted on this piece of legislation that we are introducing today. These two substantial conventions introduce measures which should be introduced and introduced at national level. They are crimes, as we have said, through electronic systems against confidentiality, integrity, availability of computer systems. Each of these words has its own technical and technical dimension, as we understand. They also refer to intercepts, interferences, forgery, computer fraud, child pornography crimes and violations of copyright law. We must point out that our country has already had enough of these offences standardised and introduced into its national law, and here is the need for only a few small improvements, which are mentioned in detail in the legislation. So we cannot say that they come on an entirely virgin territory, but several provisions from them, as you will have seen from the amendments that are being made, have already been introduced. At the same time, there are provisions of a procedural nature, provisions relating to enforcement and, indeed, to the type of enforcement which is specific to the nature of the computing systems. As everyone understands, in some cases the long-lived procedure of the Code of Civil Procedure or the long-lived procedure of imposing administrative or even criminal measures cannot be followed. It is simply necessary for the repressive authority to act quickly and in real time, as we say, and this possibility is provided through the new provisions, so that in the event of the fight against this unfair act. At the same time, issues relating to transnational cooperation, assistance and cooperation in certain cases for implementation procedures are also regulated, as we said before. Interestingly, a very specific dimension is given, a specific definition of the term 'racist and xenophobic material'. It's very important. In addition, these definitions are important because they are the ultimate modernisation of certain obsolete concepts. Some cases of aggravating effect are also introduced, which are to do with whether the operation is carried out using a tool designed specifically for carrying out attacks. This is very important, because, as we know, these instruments require software that is going to become an unfair act, and that is precisely what the creation, the training of this software is characterised as a precarious case. Furthermore, a aggravating case is the extent of the injury and the duration of exposure to the loss-making event. It is very important that you attack, extract some materials, some information, some facts and others are to destroy or for a longer period of time attacking and insulting a computer system. Also, a aggravating case is whether damage is caused by such unjust acts or generally an attack on infrastructures that have a mission to provide the population with vital goods, services, such as national defence, health or energy. In addition, the introduction into the country or the movement, sale or channelling of devices or programmes which may be used for such attacks is a particular offence. Of course, it goes without saying that illegal access to an information system is criminalised, the deterioration of electronic data, computer fraud in amending the relevant articles of the Criminal Code. In addition to the ratification of these two conventions, the Government considered it necessary to add a number of articles which can be said to be divided into three major categories. One category is the amendments relating to the Court of Justice, namely the Court of Justice and certain provisions relating to the existing limitation of certain offences and the enforcement of penalties. Secondly, provisions concerning the penitentiary system and the operation of prisons in general and, thirdly, provisions relating to third parties and, as we will see later, the responsibility of the consultative bodies of the Property and Rights Company recently set up. Starting with the penitentiary system, it really is a continuation of the effort that the government has been making since the beginning of its term of office to modernise, improving the penitentiary system and the justice system, of course, and it has to do with the establishment of a supervisory body of the Secretary-General of anti-crime policy, with a view to the penitentiary administration, as it is called, to strengthen further. It will have an operational office that will be of an ancillary nature and will have tasks of coordinating and supervising detention stores. An area where our country has to prove that it is interested in becoming a modern state, makes important steps to become a modern state. As we know, the mirror of a society is not just her schools and hospitals, it's also her prisons. The conditions of detention of detainees are equally interested in society for many reasons, including those of the detainees who, as we have said, are repeatedly involved in human rights, but are also involved in the obligation to take from the penitentiary system what can be offered, namely reform and reintegration possibilities into society. As far as the provisions relating to the limitation of relatively low inefficiency are concerned, it is a series of provisions which repeat a regime, which has already been implemented at least twice in the past. There are objections to this, especially at scientific level, which have also been heard in committees. It was fearful that this would tend to create a quasi-conjudicial custom. I think it would be a good thing if we all had these reservations in mind. As a general rule, the measure is of course necessary because it dismantles the bottles of the courts. At least, those who are directly related to it understand how important it is. It is a provision that, if it falls into a new offence, the criminal prosecution comes back and, of course, it is a question of whether all this debate has a technical character alone, but it is possible with the help of all of its stakeholders - the society itself - to lead to a substantial reform of the way justice is done, by decriminating, if necessary, certain offences and, of course, by reforming the way in which it operates and the system itself as it may mean. This is not the right time to develop it. There are also exceptions to this, i.e. there are no exceptions to all offences on the ground. In particular, certain offences directed against important public interests, such as property, service crimes, crimes against vulnerable categories of the population, and in general all offences involving weak categories of the population, are excluded, and I think that is a good distinction, in that we do not apply to fair and unjust persons. As far as the provisions relating to the school of judges are concerned, it may be technical in nature, but they concern a particular category. However, it is of interest that society as a whole in the sense that all of the society is interested in judges being well-trained, fair to have been introduced, fair to have been promoted and, above all, in correspondence with the real needs and science and society as well as with more general training and similar rewards of their efforts. The way in which the Members of the House are to vote is to make the vote more accountable, to the extent that certain phenomena which are out-of-court, are perhaps cultivated, and to the extent that these phenomena can be disapproved. These are the estimates for this arrangement. The process of drawing up the Code is beginning with Article 12, which is important, but it will probably last for too long, and then we will see whether this provision has the expected results. However, we understand it as a process of this kind, which we wish will be - we have said with the help of everyone - able to reach a certain kind of consensus of a reformist character. Article 18 is important because it provides for the effective support of third-country families, which are now treated equally - to make it clear - in terms of recruitment. This also reflects the measure of the possibilities of the current economic situation, obviously, and of course tends to treat the third-party family equally with the tenants in the area of recruitment in the private and public sectors. The aim of this measure is to strengthen the third family in the run-up to the demographic problem, of course. I would like to conclude by referring to Article 20, which has been considered and which is important - although perhaps it is self-evident, one will agree - that those of the members of the Advisory Committees are invited to give their opinions on either scientific questions or on value, and particularly on scientific issues, lege artis, as we have said, on the knowledge of their science, to give their opinion on the board of directors of the participation company, to have the irresponsible opinion. This has to do with the freedom to express a scientific opinion. It is a provision which also governs the members of the Committees, but it is also about the outline of their obligations, i.e. the obligations, defined by the decisions of the Management Board, the decisions of the General Assembly and, ultimately, the opinion, from the Court of Auditors' judgement. There is one comment from the Scientific Committee, which is very interesting, but I do not think it overturns the substance of this article, which I am telling you is inclined to give the freedom of opinion of the members of the Advisory Committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u3	Thank you too, Mr. Balomannakis. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Javarra, has the floor. Mr. Javarra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. In the draft law under discussion, the Budapest Convention, which was made in 2001, on cybercrime, is actually ratified under the provisions of Article 28(1) of the Constitution. It is an international convention, which was held within the Council of Europe, and which was a Contracting Party, but Greece had to go for fifteen years to ratify this Convention, and in that sense I think that the legislative initiative is a good one to come today to this particular draft law. Of course, along with this sanction, it is transposed into Greek law and Directive 40/2013 of the European Parliament on attacks against information systems. It is very important that this regulation, which is included in the directive, will also have the modern arsenal required to prevent attacks on information systems by criminal means. Information systems are well-known to be vital infrastructure, which in very sensitive areas, such as health, such as national defence, such as public administration, such as public order, has been the basis on which systematic communication is built between the Member States of the European Union and, to a large extent, the path towards European integration in one respect is also a case of interaction between information systems. In this sense, we believe that this draft law is also positively introduced today. These are the essentials, the essentials, the most characteristic aspects - and this is the title of the bill - on which the legislative text is being discussed. However, I will not omit, Minister, to point out in some way - to the extent that I can - how the government repeatedly does in such procedures as ratification of international conventions or the transfer of such texts that come from the European Union concerning directives or decisions - framework, incorporates or adds a number of provisions which, in essence, alter and create problems for us. Because this really weakens the principle, that is, the reasoning of this legislation, which, as I have said before, is also an obligation for the Greek state, but also a duty to modernise and modernise criminal law, because there is a gap, the existence of which had been felt over the last fifteen years in the face of, in fact, the rapid development that is taking place in the digital world. The digital world is evolving in a parallel world, in a world that reflects the world of real phenomena, everyday life, creates an idol, through which, essentially, an information society, a civil society, a society that is most founded on the directness of not physical contact but communication. In this sense, therefore, I am coming back and say that it is not really right from the point of view of legislation, that this particular legislative initiative should have been linked, that they have been hung up - in the phrase we are using - and a number of provisions which are irrelevant. Nevertheless, we are obliged to refer to the principle of the draft law to some of them, which are so special in nature, that they actually reach the point of altering or creating problems of understanding between the basic legislative authority, for which this draft law is currently being introduced. The basic case is the case with Articles 8 and 9, where we have reintroduced a number of provisions which introduce limitations and suspension of criminal prosecution for a number of offences. In essence, that is, a number of offences are amputated, which, although in the debate in the committee, you said that it is minor, but it cannot be considered to be a minor one, for which the legislature provides for two years of imprisonment. Apart from that, however, and in addition to all of them - with the provision of Article 9, where there is also a return of the well-known limitations and non-implementation of those who have a specific range - as we have said and claimed in committee, this way of dismantling the work that has been accumulated in the courts and prosecutors and the decongestion of prisons must be stopped. The case that this provision seeks either in the form of Article 8 or in the form of Article 9 to heal, regulate, we consider that it is unsuccessfully selected in this way. Why? Because for twenty years, the state has done nothing but regularly to bring such provisions, which effectively afflict basic human rights, such as the right guaranteed by Article 20(2) of the Constitution, which concerns the provision of judicial protection. The state is obliged to provide judicial protection. This judicial protection must be effective, that is to say, starting from a certain point of view, which in this case has to do with the submission of an appeal, and reaching a specific result, namely an irrevocable judicial decision which, apart from having to be adopted in a reasonable time, should also be enforced. Here, therefore, under the pretext of satisfying an interest that I consider arbitrarily to have assessed it as of paramount importance in relation to the fulfilment and safeguarding of human rights, the individual right to protection, this kind of anomaly for which no one has been involved in a systematic manner in this context at least resulting from the mere reading of the judgments delivered by the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg against Greece on complaints which have been filed for excessive delay in the way Greek justice is moving. As it is - I mention it - the Mihelidakis case against the Greek State, it has now clearly, concrete and undeniable that there is the judgment of the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg that delaying the extradition of judgments by the Greek courts is a systemic failure of the judicial system. So we cannot always bring any measures that temporarily give relief to the system, but they do not solve the problem, which must be addressed in an overall way in which justice is given to Greece and where one of the elements that compose this system must be reassessed and modernised by adjustments to be made in the light of the modern perceptions that exist both in the countries of Europe and in the countries of non-continental Europe, the Anglo-Saxon. It is for us, therefore, that this particular arrangement will not be supported. Nor will we support the provision of Article 15, which extends the results of Law4322/2015, which for a number of convictions has been a privileged treatment and has essentially been ordered to release them under conditions that have caused problems in social cohabitation, since many of them have relapsed. This also demonstrates that there are systemic deficiencies in the penitentiary system, because it is demonstrated by this reason that neither penalism nor reintegration are served and effectively met by the existing penitentiary system. But in this way, with the specific provision of Article 15, an unprecedented - I think there is no similar provision in the past. The Commission plans, in essence, that the results of this beneficial law on convictions - and even convicts of felony - will apply until the end of April 2017. That's never happened before. In fact, it is planned or at least called on those who are doomed to many and serious offences, to plan their behaviour in prison and with the networks that many of them have, to have at least until then a beneficial calculation of their sentence to enjoy this privilege. We believe that it is unsuccessful, at least, for this regulation, and that is why we do not support it. We would, therefore, like to see, as an academic teacher and as a Minister who has demonstrated at least in relation to parliamentary dialogue and decency and ethos and respect - on your days at the Ministry and on the two topics I have just mentioned, an attempt to re-establish and effectively regulate these issues, which, in fact, I believe, are both chronic inadequacies and inconveniences which have both our judicial and penitentiary system. The majority colleague, who recommended this bill, referred earlier to the provision of Article 20. Article 20 provides genuine immunity to a number of experts and advisers serving at the supranational court, where - I repeat this once again - a provision is introduced in the pattern of that which involved determining what 'infidelity' means in an older legislation of the previous government. This immunity is described in such a way that we have an ID. In other words, it says the specific provision of Article 20, like that of Article 78 of Law No 4146 - if I am not wrong - that those of these experts are not persecuted, in compliance with the rules governing the legality of this project, which each time is contained in the opinion they give, and provided that such an opinion has been approved by the Court of Auditors. Now, of course, how the Court of Auditors gets involved in opinions, I personally do not understand that. It may be that some people in this way would like to introduce a primacy or pretext, even in the form of a judicial judgment, in order to make this immunity more 'confidential'. But on this point, Minister, we should all see the very good points made by the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, which really is in line with the view I have put forward. After all, I would like to thank the way in which we worked together in the Standing Committee and say that you have studied several of the issues that we have raised you and with concrete amendments and legislative changes you have fully responded to this level and the democratic morality of the dialogue that must govern parliamentary life, particularly in committees and in this plenary Chamber. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u5	Thank you too, Mr. Javarra. Mr. Germenis, special speaker of the People's League - Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u6	The efforts of the global organs to dismantle nations - states and replace national homogeneous societies with multicultural structures - are well known to be served by the supranational organisation of the European Union, which, unfortunately, has lost its institutional role and has as its main aim the destruction of European nations and the consolidation of world government. He hates everything that nationalism and aims to transform Europe into a summation of people free of all ethnic and racial characteristics. They aim to transform indigenous Europeans into deaf, simple consumers of the markets, servants of international capital, underhanded to resist Brussels' anti-national policies. They realise that nationalism is the only ideology that can stand a barrier to globalisation capable of awakening European peoples to protect and safeguard their national identity and heritage. Of course, this is why they are trying to demonise nationalism by invoking racism - a term that is now attributed to any national and patriotic action, act or reason - in order to incriminate and target every voice of national resistance within the European states. But seeing the supporters of globalisation and internationalism that European citizens' consciences are now evolving in favour of national authorities, ideals and traditions, so that nationalist movements across Europe are giggled, unequivocally attempting to criminalise nationalism, on the pretext of combating racism and xenophobia. It is also understood that the Internet is an appropriate tool for disseminating nationalist and patriotic ideas to European citizens, trying to find ways of controlling information and limiting the movement of ideas and opinions via the Internet. They aim to limit the right of free expression on the Internet and to prevent in every way information, activity and ultimately the national awakening and resistance of European peoples in favour of their nations. This policy also includes the draft law to be passed which ratifys the Council of Europe Convention on cybercrime and its Additional Protocol on criminalisation of an act of racist and xenophobic nature committed through computer systems.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u7	Please, ladies and gentlemen, a little quiet because the speaker is not listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Athanasios, we weren't talking to your speaker. Give some attention. It's worth listening to what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u9	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u10	In accordance with Article 2 of the Protocol, racist and xenophobic material is any written material, image or other expression of ideas or theories that support, promote or fuel hatred of discrimination or violence against a person or group of individuals based on race, colour, origin, ethnic or ethnic origin, as well as religion, if it is used as a pretext for any of these factors. The Contracting Parties are invited to adopt legislative and other measures necessary to establish the following conduct as a criminal offence, i.e. distribution or otherwise disposal of racist and xenophobic material to the public by means of a computer system. The protocol under ratification is a case of a resurgence of Stalinist practices and perceptions, which the European instructors of globalisation have adapted to modern conditions, in order to alleviate the spread of national ideas. In the name of so-called democracy and the defence of human rights, gold-laden, with the money of European citizens, bureaucrats and Brussels officials, in cooperation with anti-national governments, acting as servants of the new order of things, criminalise free expression and dissemination of ideas and information. They do not care that freedom of expression is often protected by both the Constitution of European States and by Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights. At national level, the Additional Protocol on the criminalisation of acts of a racist and xenophobic nature establishes for Internet users the same regime of persecution of the opinion and limiting the right of speech and freedom of expression imposed by the famous anti-racist law 4285/2014. All this in a hopeless effort of all the political forces of the so-called "constitutional arch" to halt the rapid rise of the Golden Dawn and the ever-growing influence of the Greek nationalist movement on Greek society. This is a definition of political hypocrisy. Liberal, Democratic and Reformist bourgeoisie, in cooperation and sympathy with the Stalinist remains of the Marxist Left, are supposed to oppose the proliferation of hatred or discrimination against our fellow humans. They are, however, the same who fight rabies against anything national, targeting the actors of nationalist ideas at collectively or at individual level, which discriminate against their peoples, by promoting the abolition of national societies and by encouraging the invasion of millions of foreigners and other religious immigrants in European states. In particular in Greece, the expressions of this morbid mentality take the lead in disseminating hatred and discrimination when, in all respects, they target, threaten, excite and slander Greek nationalists, without being accountable for their actions, which obviously have racist characteristics, while at the same time being criminal offences under the current legislation. Because in Greece the only kind of racism that exists is the one that turns against the Greeks. There is indeed discrimination against citizens on the basis of their national origin or religion. This is the racism that is not only disapproved but, on the contrary, encouraged by all the political forces of the "constitutional arch". In a state that can create centres for the hospitality of illegal immigrants throughout the territory of tens of thousands of places, indifferent to public safety and health in local communities, while at the same time refuses to care for thousands of Greek homeless people, who walk around the streets and squares of the urban centres, tragic result of the policy of the memoranda which all of Parliament serves, other than the Golden Dawn. Really, who can wisely judge what is considered a xenophobic and racist act when it is on the Internet? On what criteria, in the final analysis, can anyone define the freedom of expression of any human being? Article 2 of the Protocol stipulates that any material, text, books, magazines, statements, messages, images, representations, photos and drawings, as well as any form of development of ideas or theories of a racist or xenophobic nature, may be defined as racist and xenophobic material. In line with the logic, the wording contained in the explanatory statement is purely subjective. It does not clearly define what is racist and what is xenophobic. What is the purpose of this ambiguity? It will, rather, be about the usual ambiguity that characterizes this black period, where the white becomes black and the paranoia turns into logic. On the one hand, freedom of expression is an essential component of the democratic society and, on the other, it is made the foundations of the new era. Do not argue about the existence of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and its provisions on the safeguarding of freedom of expression and other rights, because as a third political party we are excluded and faded by all the media and radio. The draft law also provides for ratification of the Cyber Crime Convention, signed in Budapest by the European States in 2001. Despite the fact that 15 years have passed since its conclusion, and therefore, in fact, this contract has been overshadowed by rapid developments in the field of online technology, the formulation of general principles, definitions and findings is not enough to prevent heavy infringements from taking place via the Internet. There is a need for national legislation capable both of preventing detestable crimes, such as child pornography, and of suppressing the use of the Internet to facilitate and prepare any kind of sexual crime, particularly at the expense of minors. We also need the possibilities offered by the Internet to exploit both the state and the other institutions and bodies of Greek society in order to promote principles, values, standards and ideals for citizens, especially young people, able to form personalities with morality, consciousness and principles. At the same time, it is imperative that any ill concepts be allowed into the margins nowadays as an example of imitation, destroying young souls in the name of a degenerated by ideological advances. But knowing that the draft law in question is to be voted on by the other political forces, in their efforts to limit the spread of nationalist ideas to Greek society, we are putting forward concrete proposals on cybercrime and criminalising acts of an anti-National and anti-National nature, putting everyone before their responsibilities. We are proposing that criminal law be tightened up, with regard to sexual crimes against minors, whether or not it is made via the Internet - child pornography - or not - paedophilia, paedophilia. They should be treated as a felony as a whole and perpetrators should be confiscated in any case. We propose the immediate intervention of the electronic crime prosecution service in cases of online threats to the lives of Greek citizens and of direct intervention when terrorist acts of criminal organisations are supported on the Internet. We propose the criminalisation of online anti-ethnics, anti-Greek and all kinds of activities against national interests, sanctions for any means of online questioning the genocides suffered by the Turks, in particular the genocide of the Greeks of the Pontus, and the exploitation of the opportunities offered by the training bodies to promote, in particular, to young people, as standards the principles, values and ideals of our country's history, tradition, traditions and traditions. To conclude, I would like to comment on two - three articles that have really made us a great deal of impression, such as Article 3 which regulates the removal of confidentiality in communications and extends the list of criminals. I would like to remind you here that an example of this wrongdoing that had been set against the Golden Dawn is the telephone conversations between our own Members, who had been reproduced by newspapers and channels, without any confidentiality being lifted first. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll use my dentistry. I'm not gonna do a second. Three more minutes. In fact, if it were to be possible to open the confidentiality of communications, it would be advisable to open the phones of previous Prime Minister Antonis Samaras, when his close associate Baltakos in the audio quote speaks clearly about the manipulation of judges. An article which makes us very impressed again is Article 4, which lays down administrative penalties against legal persons for specific criminal offences provided for in the draft law under which they are to be adopted by a natural person for their benefit or on their behalf. It goes on to say that this sanction is imposed by a decision of the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights. This is a clear case of the Minister's intervention in the executive and legislative power, with the Minister actually being a judge, gaining judicial powers, replacing the natural judges and indeed having the power to impose fines. The other article, referred to above by others here at the Step, is Article 20, for the company of the supranational immunization and property management, the so-called "Greek Company of Participants and Property SA". What are you doing here? You are opening up a coup d'état to commit arbitrariness and abuses and other crimes by state officials, who are commanding the supreme demilitarisation. It should be a cause for the introduction of strict safeguards in order to ensure legality and to prevent any unlawful action in the conduct of its institutions. In other words, it is not possible for these people to give their opinions, say things, sell them out, and at the end they will not have any criminal responsibility if the things they propose refer to criminal acts. Of course, and at the hearing of bodies, the spokesman for the Union of Judges, Mr Charalambos Sevastidis, said attributes that it was illegal and unconstitutional or disputed regulation. That's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr. Germenis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in this House on Friday 29 July 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 1153/19-7-2016 by MP Larisi of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Anna Vageias to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the need for exceptional reinforcement of Thaison Young Actors. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question raised by Mr Georgios Vlachos with regard to the need to care for the damage suffered by the suppliers of agricultural products from the bankruptcy of the company ‘Marinopoulou’ under No 1144/18-7-2016. 3. The 1134-12-2016 topical question of the MP Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARMAR Kefalidou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the interruption of the aid to the Federation of Deaf Greek for the costs of interpreting programs in sign language. 4. The question by No 1157/19-7-2016 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Christos Katsotis, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, about the problems of the workers of the company "Karfur - Marinopoulos". 5. The 1139/13-2016 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights concerning the indefinite postponement of the trial of Siemens for failure to translate the text. 6. The 1148/18-7-2016 topical question by MP A'Thessaloniki of the Centroon Union Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of National Defence on the immediate withdrawal of Turkish military forces from the Aegean, Cyprus and the Southeast Mediterranean. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Samos of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Sevastakis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the payments of the OPECE, area-related support for vineyards of the year 2015. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1147/18-7-2016 topical question by MP Evros of the New Democracy, Anastasios State, to the Minister of Finance, on the upgrading of the Garden Customs and the exploitation of prospects of entry- exit points in Evros. 3. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning delays in payment of contractors to the Ministry of Culture and Sport. 4. The question by number 1156/19-7-2016 of the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotis (Panos) Skouriakou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity regarding the reintroduction of the Collective Act of Actors. 5. The 1155-19-7-2016 topical question of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Athanasios (Sakis) Papadopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the revival of Article 44 of Law 3763 (A80) with a view to promoting self-convention in the drafting of a definitive contract by pre-arranged real estate transfer agents. 6. The 1159/19-7-2016 topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the implementation of the Collective Work Agreements for Workers at the Hotels of the country. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question asked by MP Halkidiki of New Democracy Mr Georgios Vagios Vagios to the Minister for the Environment and Energy about the risk of stopping the construction of vital projects in the Halkidiki Prefecture. 8. Under number 1072/29-6-2016, a topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of National Defence, on the situation in the "Greek Defence Systems". 9. The Question No 914/27-5-2016 by MP Pireos of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Bagou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the "creating of illegal kindergartens and boarding schools in Xanthi". 10. The question asked by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the advance announcement of tragic developments in the field of electricity production. 1. The 1130-12-2016 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the artistic programme of the Athens Festival 2016 and the reactions to the performance "4" by Rodrigo Garcia. 12. Under number 1048/27-2016, a timely question by the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on "the disastrous and unjust demand for payment of a great and unjust fine to businesses that had been closed during the crisis and are now asking for them to be re-activated". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 5364/13-2016 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the design for the Archaeological Museum of Mesaras. Mr Papatheodorou, a special speaker of the PASOK-DIMAR Democratic Association, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the ratification of cybercrime and the Additional Protocol and the transposition of Directive 2013/40. Once again we are discussing a bill which contains regulations supplementing legislative gaps in the legislative framework in Greece. Once again, what we are observing is that half of the arrangements concern this sanction, and the rest have to do with either the penitentiary policy or the issues of the operation of the Ministry of Justice and Services, as well as a number of amendments, some of which were tabled last night after 22.00 and change the content. We're talking about a penalty. We could have avoided it, especially when during the discussions in the committee - which were also consensual, they were also constructive - there was a spirit of cooperation between the parties, if you would like, so that a text can come out which is better - nothing could precipitate us that again the government - and I am not only talking about the ministry, because here, Minister, we have amendments from other ministers - the Ministry would have resorted to this one more time. I say this because there is often the question whether we should, in voting on the principle, take into account the fact that the various bills that come can contain everything in the world, denounce this fact, not vote and try to block or, in any case, denounce this practice. It is very important that today's draft law, because, in our view, the radical changes brought about by the rapid and often uncontrolled development of the Internet throughout the whole range of social and economic life of citizens, have also created the conditions for the development of crime. As soon as crime technology is evolving, we believe that crime-related technology should also be developed. The criminal acts described so far - and not always clearly - were very unconscious, because there are no generally accepted definitions in either international or Greek law or case law or even in bibliography. We have diverse peculiarities as to how to perform, but also about the recognition by the criminal legislator of these acts. The definition given by the OECD in 1983 states that electronic crime is considered criminal offences committed using computers and data processing systems and are punished by specific penalties. Depending on how to perform, they are divided into crimes involving the use of computers and cyber crimes, whether committed via the Internet. We therefore find that cybercrime is a more specific form of electronic crime, through the specific form described by the Criminal Code in Article 14 in the definition of crime. There has so far been no legislative framework that exclusively regulates crime via the Internet or the crime of the Internet, as it has so far been included in the legislation of the United Kingdom, Germany, France and NetAct in the United States. Of course, there was the 1988 law on computerised crimes and the 1994 law on the organisation and operation of the telecommunications and Internet sector. The legislative gap in this regard therefore comes to be covered today with the new framework governing these forms of crime. I would like to make it clear that, with regard to the first part of the regulations which are also the basic incorporation of the directive and its ratification, we are positive, because we consider it to be in a progressive direction and that it is right to incorporate what all of Europe has done so far. On the other hand, in the second part concerning the transposition into Greek law, there are regulations that are contrary to us. I begin with what we agree with. We agree with the regulations introduced in the Criminal Code on the fight against cyber crime. In particular, we believe that it is important to regulate Article 348B to deal with the attraction of children for sexual reasons, the 381A Criminal Code on data damage, and the regulation of Article 386A of the Criminal Code on computer fraud. These are specific forms of existing crimes. We also agree in the second part of Article 4 with the recognition of the quasi-criminal liability of legal persons following the legislative improvement mentioned yesterday by the Minister, where the administrative sanction imposed on the legal person, because there is a criminal liability of the natural person and which he acted on his behalf, will not be imposed by a decision of the Minister, but will be a decision of the Independent Authority, of the IAEA. On this point, Minister, I would like to stress that during the discussions in the committee the proposals were constructive and led to a consensus solution. Article 8 deals with matters relating to the limitation and cessation of criminal prosecutions, offences and offences for which a sentence of up to two years is threatened. The use of this measure results in the decongestion of legal material in an artificial way, but ultimately it demonstrates the need - because it is often the case, we have an ad hoc decongestion here - either the decriminating of small criminal delinquency offences with a view to reforming the Criminal Code or a different direction of judicial counter-crime policy. Otherwise, we will always have recourse to measures which are limited of power, which include the element of arbitraryness or political decision, and they in fact create parallel arrangements in the Criminal Code. Such an arrangement is also the provision of Article 9 concerning the non-implementation of a penalty for up to six months. Minister, on this point - and because it has been discussed and asked by citizens' associations - we would suggest that the penalties imposed on you for breaching the obligation to provide food, because its non-implementation - is 358 of the Criminal Code - and the non-implementation of such penalties could lead to a systematic breach of the obligations of the offenders against the beneficiaries. We disagree and we will not vote in favour of Article 11, because we believe that there is no need to intervene now, in the term of office and in the manner in which the Councils of the Courts are to be set up, since Article 12 provides for a new Code for the Statute of Justice and the Status of Judges. We also consider this regulation to be a matter of concern, Minister, to the extent that the disagreement between the judiciary and the regulation you are proposing is of a photographic nature, which may lead to a disturbance in justice in the next period. After all, we do not need - in our view - any intervention on this point, whether it is now two months or nine days before antiquities, for one reason, because I think that justice has the right to operate in fixed rules and not to change the terms of office, or the way in which the Council acts. After all, we have been committed from the outset, at our meeting with the judicial associations, to supporting their request to withdraw this provision in so far as you too recognize in Article 12 that there is already a procedure for the setting up of a committee for the revision of the Code of Justice. We also fully disagree with the provision of Article 13 on the establishment of a Guards Coordination Directorate under the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Justice. This address has relevant or if you want conflicting or parallel responsibilities with the Directorate-General for Sanctions and its function poses the risk of conflict and confusion of competence, while - in my view - it is only a tool of political control rather than a coordination of prisons. I'm saying that why? If we really wanted to make an office, you said before, an address today, within three to four months, if you really wanted an address for coordination of stores that has a substantial role to play in the fact that you should alleviate the inconvenience that may sometimes prevail in prisons, because this address, which has specific content, does not want to place it within the framework of the Directorate-General for Penitentiary and Anti-Criminist Policy, but on the other hand, you choose to place it under the supervision and administrative function of the Secretary-General? Why? Because we believe - in our view - that it is not just about a tool of political control, but also about a tool that the respective part of Mr Lambros in SYRIZA needs to control prisons and maintain a parallel system of penitentiary and party settlements. This includes a number of articles that we are called upon to discuss today and I imagine you will vote on. In Article 15 there was an attempt to find a common place. I would remind you that Article 15 provides for the conditions for the dismissal of detainees who have been sentenced either to less than 10 years or to more than 10 years. We will not agree on the following reasons, not because we do not understand the need to dismantle the penitentiary population. We will not agree, firstly, because we have asked the Minister to exclude all the felony acts which have as their victims minors. We haven't seen it yet. Secondly, we will not agree because we believe that a number of crimes should be excluded because they have a high penal deception. Thirdly, we will not agree anyway, because it is intended to maintain the deadline for conditional dismissal until August 2017, that is to say, under the current conditions, it will be possible to enjoy the benefit of this measure, which will complement the conditions, not in the vote, nor in the publication, not three months later, but one year from now. Why is that so? Is there a reason? Is there a reason why we are today relying on the needs of the anti-crime policy to have a measure that will apply not to the biennial, but in advance to those who will fulfil the conditions in 2017 and even in August and indeed to the legislative improvement that has passed this provision since March 2017 in August 2017? There's something here, it's obvious, and you're gonna have to explain it to us. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, your tolerance for a while. I'll take time from my dentistry too, if possible. Similarly, we are opposed to the provision of Article 17. Article 17, ladies and gentlemen, provides for what? It provides for the possibility of transferring the officials of the external guard to IC prison posts, to an IP forensics, a social worker, a sociologist, a psychologist, etc. We talked at the hearing with the representatives of these associations and what did they say to us? They told us that their service is subordinated. They told us that at the moment there is no possibility of thousands of hours off and days off for the officials of the external prisons. So, because this service is under-represented, will we allow this service to be further bleeding through a Minister's decision and through transfers which will be selectively selective by ICU officials who have a degree in IP posts in the penitentiary stores? In our view it is a rhetorical provision. And we talked to outside guards who aren't in the federation, and you know what they told us? We were told today that the external guard of Korydalos cannot meet the current needs of the service, let alone 10, fifteen people. They also told us that with the prospect of a 100 employees in the whole of Greece in the future, if you see how this will be shared in the prisons of the country, the problem is not solved. We are therefore opposed to this provision, as we are opposed to the provision which you have not finally brought forward, and which we discussed about the possibility of external guards taking care of external prisons, which we did not see as a legal improvement. Similarly, we are opposed to the procedure that you have followed 'two standards' for the anticipated criminal and civil immunity of experts and members of other advisory bodies of the new super-fund. We do not know what you are proposing and really is a reflection, ladies and gentlemen, and I would also like to see the rest of you, at least the legal ones. Look at what the Ministry suggests. I'd say that good, since he's made a commitment to the lenders, he predicts... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall end. Thank you very much. It provides for the criminal and civil immunity of experts and members of other advisory bodies. When were you right? When SYRIZA as a government moved the criminal prosecution of the members of the TIAD for specific earlier actions or now that you anticipate the criminal and civil immunity of those? One of the two times you were wrong or one of the two did not have time to tell you what to do. We do not think it is absurd. You have promised the lenders very simply - because that is where they came from the criminal prosecution that has previously been prosecuted - that those who will be involved in the superstition will have no civil liability, no criminal liability. Go out and say it, because that way, while you had other chances to do it, you are simply trying to hide it from your backs of penitentiary content. So for the reasons I mentioned, we consider that there are provisions which are in the right direction and are in the right direction to do with the main body. The main body is no longer incorporating Directive 40/2013. What we are telling you is that, in principle, we are also positive with the objections that we have referred to for a number of articles and most of the second part. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr. Papatheodorou. The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Syntrakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the plenary is called upon to ratify with this draft law, the Council of Europe Convention on Cyber Crime and the Additional Protocol thereto, which incorporates the relevant Directive of the European Parliament 2013/40. At the same time, however, in the same draft law, the Government is also unnecessarily incorporating provisions relating to criminal law and could in itself constitute a separate draft law. This process in practice has annulled the in-depth debate on the substance and content of the ratified Convention, the European Union's real objectives of dealing with the so-called 'government crime', which, of course, has made it easier for the other parties to pass this Convention with two words - particularly on the committees - and with a 'yes' in its ratification and thus all of them to 'fly the ball on the bench' and to rotate the debate on the penitentiary provisions of the draft law, which we do not devalue at all. On the contrary, that is why we think that they could be discussed even more effectively in another bill. Ladies and gentlemen, the Communist Party of Greece highlights the real content and objectives of this reactionary, anti-popular convention for the so-called 'government'. The agreement to deal with cybercrime is part of the strategic objectives of the European Union, the urban governments of its member countries, for the control of cyberspace, information networks. This is one of the operational arms of the European Union's common security and defence policy, to implement more effectively the reactionary doctrine of the single area of freedom, security and justice within the European Union, with which all the Euro-Union's parties have agreed. This doctrine, on which the Cyber Convention is being ratified, seeks, on the pretext of combating terrorism and other pretexts, the integration of the repression and criminalisation of the radical mind, popular action and its fighters, extensive monitoring and file mechanisms, as well as the circumvention of popular freedoms and rights acquired after struggles. For the Communist Party of Greece behind the so-called 'government crime' there is a real war at the level of information and not only. The gathering of information via the internet is the mildest version of the so-called ‘government war’. The cyber-war has many different aspects: from control of information to war of every kind, from real to electronic enemy infrastructure, connected to the Internet, even to class war. For example, the ‘Stuxnet’ virus, this cyber-powered weapon that appeared in 2009, was intended to dismantle critical infrastructure. Who made it? Obviously some organization, some countries that worked together and paid enough back then to hit Iran's nuclear programme. This cyber gun may have delayed Iran's nuclear programme, but it was taken by everyone to use it at the right time. Such attacks are carried out by organised states, such as the United States of America, Germany, China, Russia, Canada and others, behind which powerful monopolistic groups with cybercrime experts. For example, Germany has officially mentioned electronic, industrial espionage and electronic attacks to gain know-how from the attackers against German companies. In other words, they openly admit that the critical infrastructure, such as the financial system, energy, fuel, transport, telecommunications, defence, is highly dependent on the use of technology and information. These attacks are evolving in conditions of severe, intra-imperialist conflicts and intra-urban competition. Countries and monopolies challenge electronic systems, intercept data from other countries and monopolies in order to serve the needs of the capitalist market, ensure an advantageous position in their competition, profitability, and strengthen the imperialist institutions, the European Union, NATO, OECD, International Monetary Fund and others, and their role as global rangers and oppressors of peoples. This ratified convention on dealing with crime in each country - a member of the European Union does not merely constitute a framework for more effective control of the information transmission networks in each country separately - although it is of particular importance to each state, since the movement of the network is inextricably linked to telecommunications material, servers and the position they are - but the concept of cyberspace is more than that. It is a set of structured global information data that escapes the state-owned spatial contexts. If this aspect is understood, then one can easily understand that the nature of cybercrime is of a border dimension and its cyber control is about the control of the information transfer routes, which is strategically important. The explanatory statement is completely enlightening in this respect. It says: 'The threats to the security of the information society and to the establishment of the European Union as a single area of freedom, security and justice require an answer to the Union's level and improved cooperation and coordination at international level'. This is what the anti-grass strategy of the European Union 'Europe 2020' and NATO's aggressive doctrine called 'NATO 2020' stipulates. The aim is to interconnect the European Union with NATO by extending the agenda of new threats from the fight against terrorism, the dispersion of weapons of mass destruction, the security of the European Union's energy supply and migration to the cyber-attacks. So the legalisation of such measures through the ratification contract has several objectives: firstly, to shield the operation of large business groups, urban states, which are increasingly exploiting information systems in their operation. Secondly, the exploitation of the huge market in cybersecurity measures. Thirdly, increasing Internet policing without any hindrance to the name of dealing with state or terrorist attacks and therefore imposing new repressive measures against people's freedoms, incriminating anyone's activity on the Internet. Fourthly, the effective and risk-free commercial, industrial and military espionage, bringing the Internet, telecommunications and cyberspace to the centre of competition and military preparations. Ultimately, it aims at harmonising the European Union, NATO, the United States of America in a division of roles between them in order to act coordinatedly on cyber control. A prerequisite for achieving these objectives is, of course, the transposition into Greek law of transnational cooperation in dealing with crime and reciprocity relations in cyber control. In this way, demands from the European Union and the United States on international judicial cooperation in criminal matters are being met and are being extended to the Internet site. In other words, the urban states should be closely interconnected with the relevant NATO and the European Union agencies. In particular, the framework of provisions of the draft law includes a complex range of criminal acts from cyber attacks to civil law issues. In this context, it is possible to extend the lifting of the confidentiality of communications by amending Law 2225/1994, in substance the application of terrorists and Internet activities, and in a way which penetrates the daily lives of users, ensures that prosecution and investigation authorities are able to lift the confidentiality of communications and to investigate, collect and confiscate data from computers or computer networks. In fact, this is predicted to be a preventive one. The provision in Article 7 of the draft law on the government's right of reservation against the contract is insufficient since they do not remove the overall reactiveness and risk of the Convention. For the implementation of the above provisions, a dangerous provision is also provided for in Article 6 of the draft law, the creation of a network of permanent contact points for the creation of rapid processing of requests for assistance from foreigners, the continuous coordination of States Parties, and even for the collection or recording of real-time traffic data. It is, in other words, planned to be a force of rapid cyber intervention in naval standards. The contract describes information systems and networks in every possible way by considering any unauthorised access to them (provocational damage, interference, interception, etc.).) prohibits and criminalizes the creation, possession and disposal of viruses, worms and any software which can be used to access, damage or intercept the systems, as well as the movement of passwords for access to networks or computers. The contract, however, extends from the criminalisation of the infringement of copyright and related rights to Article 10, until the extension of the criminalisation of legal persons to Articles 11 and 12. Article 10 is a straightforward criminalisation of a civil dispute to date concerning the infringement of intellectual property rights and related rights. This provision is designed to ensure the interests and ownership of monopolistic groups on works of art and on the data of human knowledge and science on the Internet. And that's because it's been removed from the Internet from the world industry all the previous years, huge revenues from intellectual and related rights. Such provisions pose a real risk and threat to hundreds of thousands of users in our country who, using the Internet, obtain free access to works of art and culture, films, literature, music, etc. Articles 11 and 12 introduce the reactionary logic of collective responsibility, which opens dangerous roads and can lead to persecution on the basis of collective responsibility. At procedural level, the bill focuses on the notion of the possibility of investigations and preliminary rulings in real time, introduces arrangements which affect basic procedural rights and guarantees of the defendant, such as the presumption of legality and the possibility of the defendant to challenge the preliminary rulings. In addition, Section 2 of the awarded contract confers extensive powers and powers on the prosecution authorities, without specifying whether they are concerned only with the prosecution and investigational investigation or even with the police preliminary investigation. Articles 16 and 17 of the Convention stipulate that, prior to well - criminal prosecution is carried out to the suspect - with or without introductorys - the vaguely mentioned prosecution authorities will be able to monitor the computer data of the alleged suspect as a suspect. Article 18 of the Convention states that the vaguely mentioned prosecution authorities will be able to issue, again, at the expense of any individual, a demonstration order, even if that person has not yet been charged. They may investigate and confiscate the computer, Article 19 of the Convention, and broadly remove the secrets, Articles 20 and 21 of the Convention. In Articles 24 and 37 on issues of extradition and judicial assistance, further cooperation and integration of the repressive system at European level is attempting to complement existing European legislation. Finally, in relation to the contract, the convention contains provisions to address child pornography via the Internet, as well as racism and xenophobia. We are saying for example, because we are all aware of the existing legal framework in our country, which is already sufficient, which is sufficient, for the criminal treatment of such crimes. This hypocrisy is reflected in the fact that even the better recasting of Article 348B of the Criminal Code, which makes the draft law in Article 2, concerning the attraction of children for sexual reasons, is part of the overall logic and application of the reactionary contract and is imported by a single article. Ladies and gentlemen, the JRC's position that urban democracy is a form of capital dictatorship and freedoms end when the interests of monopolies are affected. Online freedom isn't outside that shape. The Internet is not the place of absolute freedom and parity. It creates the illusion of freedom to his user. It is full of traps and space where the illusions, disorientation and manipulation thrive. As a massive means of communication and expression, the Internet can and must be used to serve people's needs, to create and disseminate culture and values. The ruling class, of course, understands the classics of society and understands the efforts made by the people's movement objectively to exploit all means and actively exploits the internet to manipulate the workers. In today's conditions, however, in conditions of capital sovereignty in social production, the Internet is, in turn, subject to the profitability of monopolies. Will someone say, should we refuse to use the Internet? Of course not. In conditions of enormous growth of productive forces, the Internet directly makes an incredible amount of information, data, unbelievable until a few years ago. It gives the technical opportunity for direct information and for the transfer of news from all over the planet. In conditions of popular power, with socialised means of production, on the basis of labour folk control, the Internet could offer huge services, both through the more complete and faster recording of needs, in order to properly direct the centralised design of the economy, as well as to implement it more effectively, as well as possibilities for using the Internet in education, research and information. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of all the above, the JRC cannot agree with the contract ratified and with this draft law. In relation, of course, with provisions of penitentiary, anti-crime policy, we will speak much more in our dentistry, as will the other articles and amendments that have already been tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Syncis. Mr. Fotillas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the developments of recent days have been tragically confirmed by the need to discuss and vote for this bill today in Parliament. This harmonizes our country, as it had to do, with the legal framework of the European Union and the Council of Europe to deal with crimes via the Internet, aiming at covering the legal gap created by the rapid development of technologies and increasing Internet users. Indeed, the relevant Convention of the Council of Europe has been passed since 2001 and is being adopted late today. In the same day, however, when we were discussing the bill in committee, in another country of the European Union and at its core, there was a crime involving the Internet. I am referring to the case of Munich and the cold murder of nine teenage people, of whom one of our fellow citizens from Thrace. According to reports confirmed by the city's police authorities, some of the dead were found in the known tachyphaltic chain after an invitation by the young killer himself through the well-known social network, Facebook. This fact proves the dual aspect of the new information technologies, which, as I said in the committee, have the two faces of the Roman god Janus. On the one hand, a positive person with significant economic benefits from the rapid growth in trade and job creation, as well as transparency in public administration and the ability of citizens to take decisions by digital means. In addition, new roads were opened in our country by the adoption of open consultation, "OpenGov" and "Digitalia" to the Greek State. And it is not by chance that the study of free regimes where land is used to control the internet by imposing censorship on social networks and also on Internet users. There is, however, - the Munich case has reminded us - and the dark, the gloomy face of the Internet, what leads to crime through even the misinterpretation of a social network, and of course child pornography via the Internet, as well as crimes related to the illicit trafficking of information on national security issues, the protection of human dignity, economic security. So we're safe while we surf on the internet? In any case we can try to reduce the risks arising from its use and perhaps provide them, continue dialogue on the safety and protection of citizens that are a precondition for their freedom. That is why the Council of Europe Convention on cybercrime together with the accompanying protocol on the criminalisation of acts of racist and xenophobic nature committed through computer systems must be ratified. Although our country, ladies and gentlemen, in the area of predicting Internet crimes, maintains a very good tradition, education and security is suffering. However, I must also say - in the area of e-government of the state. We are still discussing heresy 2.1 in relation to major public works in the field of technology. We are not talking more about open data and software, strengthening parliamentary transparency, upgrading the tools for publicity (OpenGov, Prosperity) and involving citizens in decision-making by digital means. Apart from the Convention and its accompanying Protocol, the relevant Community directive is to be ratified. There is, among other things, the provision of Article 4 which introduces the criminal liability of legal persons in national law, beyond any discussion of the criminal liability of legal persons. My colleague, Mr. Carras, told the committee. However, I would like to congratulate the Minister here, because he has really heard the objections of operators and all the parties to the democratic arc and has changed the provision that has caused reactions. Thus, an independent authority now, with an increase in the scope of its powers, will impose the relevant sanctions on the offenders and not the Minister concerned, as originally planned. We have said this before, and we repeat that in the river where we see changes to the positive, we will welcome them publicly. The bill, however, also consists of fourteen other articles. Eleven of them were not even included in the text that was in the consultation. In two of the three in the text of the consultation, there are additions to new paragraphs. And here I must state that corrections have been made by the Minister, although there are issues that need to be made, and some of the Minister himself said he would see them again. In particular, in Article 15 on measures to decongest prisons, we have seen with satisfaction that you have exempted further offences from the limitation. However, they could and should be even more in our view. It would also be right, Minister, for social reasons that we all understand how to make a legislative improvement in paragraph 1 of Article 9. - Mr Papatheodorou said so that penalties relating to non-performance in women with children would not be recorded. It's Article 358. I would also like to point out that a more general debate on the question of penalties should be launched, but also on the issue of the invaluable administration of justice. I put to the Minutes the relevant questions we have tabled on the matter. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Jason Fotillas, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The first concerns the measures you were planning to take for the over one million outstanding cases, and the second relates to a significant increase in cases which have been frozen because of the strike of the lawyers and the money lost by the Greek State. Changes in the gravity factor of foreign language and general education courses are positive from 0,2 to 0.5 for admission to the school of judges. I now come to Article 10 and paragraph 2, which repeals Article 25 of Law 1756. I cannot understand why the prefectures in Thessaloniki are only the ones that will be conducted by the trained judges and not Athens or Patras, to talk about my home. The Director of the School of Judges is also entitled to choose the Presidents of the Courts to whom he is to be awarded an instructor. In other words, the choice of trainers is based on personal criteria without prior evaluation. What for? With Article 11 and paragraph 3, it is also possible for judges to acquire a double rating, i.e. to be able to elect members of a trade union body, a union of judges and prosecutors, as well as members of their administration to which they belong, a Council of Justice and the procedure is only two months before the elections. You were told by the associations of judges and prosecutors: the self-defence of the courts is weakened. The layout is photographic. You're interfering with their organization. The possibility of dealing with the governor in the courts with colleagues in order to vote should be more concerned with you. Also, in Article 13 in the Law on the Cohabitation Pact on December 24, 2015, the Minister also brought us a similar provision, which created the Guards Coordination Directorate. Since there has already been a Directorate-General for Crime and Penitentiary Policy, we have had objections since then to the usefulness of a parallel structure. Today, you convert the autonomous desk to address level. You continue the well - known practice to create addresses and positions. Tomorrow can we wait for a special secretariat, a general secretariat? What else do we have to wait for? We in Potami, Minister, do not believe in bureaucracy, but in the flexibility of the public sector and in the development of new technologies, so that at last citizens can have services comparable to the taxes they pay. I shall conclude with the provisions of Article 17, which you have told us you will see them again. In paragraph 1 of that article, we have asked you, almost all parties, to add, in any case, a legislative improvement, which is also provided for in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law. In other words, the assignment of prisons should not jeopardise the smooth functioning of the prisons, but also the execution of the main mission of the external guard. If relevant, please confirm in any event that a reasoned report by the Director and the commander or sergeant of the external guard is made. We have all told you that even the Greek Independent Party, with which you are ruling. Yesterday, Mr. Minister, Mr. Paradropoulos, found it very positive, he welcomed it. Today we are learning that with legislative improvement it cannot be accepted. Why is that? Someone convinced him to the contrary? Is there an invisible force to which Mr. Paradise cannot be imposed? I don't know. There is another issue with Article 17, namely paragraph 2. We have faced the dilemma, as we have heard two different points of view as to whether external IC category guards will be able to switch to organic Scientific Class IC staff positions. Make a commitment, Minister, to the stay of external guards for a long time in the country's penitentiary and to carrying out their duties as an IP in prison. Otherwise, you do not help the system to orthopaedic, but you lead it to collapse. We would like to inform you here that even graduated external guards want to move them to organic IC posts. They express concern about the level of protection of penitentiary shops. And it is not possible, Minister, at the same time as making these arrangements, to call for the abolition of the mobility of civil servants. I am tabling a document on the Minutes, Mr President, which the Minister has sent to the Deputy Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction calling for the cessation of the mobility of officials. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Jason Fotillas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Should Mr Vernardakis also send a letter to the Minister of State to stop the transfer of external guards to organic posts in the IP? I really wonder about the level of cooperation and understanding between the ministries. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude with a comment on the amendment you have put forward concerning the independent authorities and the participation of members of teaching staff in higher education and technology at the same time as teaching and research tasks. We are not convinced by what you have said that it is only a technical regulation. We fear that you are planning to participate in full-time work at the same time as an independent authority and at the university and that you have not realised the consequences of the regulation. That's right now. I was very concerned about whether or not I had to vote on this bill at first. In my opinion, I shouldn't have voted for it. This is because I would somehow legitimise this unacceptable practice of bringing bills to other bills, bringing in provisions which are far more than the basic bill and of blackmailing us in a way that we do not want to vote at first. However, because the Minister has indeed shown a different person in the debate in the committees and because this ratification is really necessary, I have come to vote for the last time on this bill. However, I say this and state very clearly from this step forward that I will not vote again either ratification or draft legislation, since it will not be what the title says. The rest of us are not even going to vote in the first place. It's the last time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Fotella, thank you. Mr. Kokalis, special speaker of the Independent Greeks, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, in recent months our country and all the countries of the European Union have been spectacularly bad developments in the field of terrorism. As long as the vote on this bill, a bill, which has to do with cybercrime, has to do with it. The rapid development of internet use, digitisation, convergence and broad interconnection of information systems provide an important facility for committing criminal offences of a cross-border nature. The so-called ‘government crime’, i.e. committing criminal offences via the Internet, constitutes an extremely serious threat, which is directed not only against natural or legal persons of private and public law who use the Internet but also against the proper functioning of the States themselves, the so-called ‘government war’. The principle of territoriality, which governs the application of the rules of criminal law, is causing significant difficulties in the effective repression of the cross-border nature of offences committed on the Internet. It is understandable that international action is now needed to deal with crime on the Internet, but also close and effective judicial cooperation between the European states. Strengthening international cooperation in the fight against cybercrime requires an appropriate binding and effective legislative framework. We have analysed this draft law in detail in committee. This cybercrime convention is indeed an innovative text, which seeks to establish rules of law, with a view to tackling crime on the Internet itself. The Convention seeks, on the one hand, to harmonise the national laws of the Member States with regard to the criminalisation of specific behaviours, such as illegal access to a computer system, the dissemination of child pornography material and, on the other hand, the obligation to impose appropriate criminal sanctions on them. Furthermore, this same convention, which we are now to vote on, complements procedural provisions in force in the Contracting Parties in order to improve the ability of judicial and police authorities to carry out their investigations in real time in order to collect the necessary evidence in the geographical boundaries of the respective national territory before such evidence is lost. This convention also aims to adapt the rules contained in the Council of Europe Conventions on extradition and judicial assistance. In addition, in addition to traditional means of communication, the contract provides for the creation of a network of contact points, which will operate 24/7 all days of the week. The Convention does not only address cybercrime in the narrow sense of the term, genuine online crimes, since it also applies to criminal offences, the repression of which requires the collection of evidence of an electronic nature, online crimes. The contract includes specific definitions for the definition of certain concepts of technical nature, but the implementation of the contract and, in particular, the single computer system, computer data, which are computer data, service provider and traffic data in particular. The concept of cybercrime is also defined and the specific offences are identified in such a way as to ensure the specificity of each internal legal order, i.e. by adopting flexible concepts and by enabling the Contracting Parties to express reservations in the application of certain provisions. New forms of technology over the past 20 years, in particular through the elected deletion of electronic tracks following a computer software intervention, are now an easy tool to commit offences via the Internet. The Council of Europe's 185 Convention on cybercrime was the first comprehensive attempt to uncover all the problems encountered, in particular the need for a single cross-border response to offences committed through the Internet. The last part of the draft law includes provisions which amend specific provisions of the Substantive Criminal Code in order to adapt to the contract in force, as well as to the directive. In particular, the terms of the 'information systems' and 'digital data' are added while extending the concept of the document. A stricter penalties framework is introduced and criminalise the offence of illegal entry into an information system without access. It is a fact undeniable and no one can question it anymore that the seasons have changed. The identification of offences committed via the Internet or on the Internet is particularly difficult, as is the identification of offenders. This bill is in this direction. I come to the latest articles in the bill to make the following comments. First of all, we welcome the exclusion of malicious seduction and disability from 67% to 80%. We as a party believe that legislation on minors should be made even more stringent. Where the victim is a child, legislation must now become even stricter. In the case of a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, the Court of Justice of the European Some mothers are right, Minister, who are protesting, struggling when the opposing father has no property in his name and the only weapon and means of pressure are the penalty itself. They expect this sentence, which is the means of pressure, whether the child is four, five, or six months old, to pay the food. At some point later we have to see it, make it a review and have at least one exception. I, as a legal person, have to admit that yes, it is a means of pressure to pay the penalty itself. We also asked for an improvement in Article 17 yesterday, essentially the copying of the explanatory statement in the very text of the law. In Article 17 there is a fascinating vagueness, which is likely to cause more problems than it wants to solve. For the first time a gunman will be in prison - correctly - on the external contingency. However, the external guard of prisons has already been charged with too many tasks: transport, prisoners in hospitals. Maybe there should be at least one suggestion from the head of the detention store. We agree, yes, to the external consortium. But don't create more problems than he wants to solve. Check it out, please, if there is any possibility of improvement. Otherwise, we should look at it in the amendment of the debate on the Penitentiary Code. Ladies and gentlemen, in general, this draft law is innovative and moves in the right direction. It is trying to make it easier to identify the perpetrators, who are moving through or on the Internet, and it is a bill, which should have been voted on for too long, because developments are rapid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Red. Mr. Karras, special speaker of the Centroon Association, has the floor. Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Fotellas has given me an opportunity to speak before I start on the issues of the bill, on procedural issues and in particular on the subject of the Rules of Procedure. I think it's time for them to come up. A bill, which in its first chapter concerns ratification of a contract under Article 28 of the Constitution, i.e. a bill, for which only the vote is allowed, or the justification for the objections, may be objected. It's an international treaty ratified by the country. The second chapter concerns a European directive, which is not usually a wider one, and the third is provisions. Questions are therefore automatically raised: an international convention for ratification. It should also be followed by other provisions, or should we be strictly in the constitutional regulation, as specified in the Rules of Procedure, namely that we are discussing a separate bill until the last article of the Convention and that others are other draft legislation? Unfortunately, it's not all I want to point out. I would also like to highlight issues that still need to be amended. Maybe I'm getting tired in the Chamber, but I'm coming back. I will say this: there are amendments which are irrelevant, amendments which are at the very last moment and for which Parliament cannot be put forward. A few minutes ago I took note of an amendment tabled a few hours ago on OAED issues. It concerns projects which will be new to the OAED and which also involve the appointment of three hundred sixty-sixteen seats to the OAED. What does this amendment have to do with cybercrime? What does it have to do with criminal provisions? What does it have to do with a European Union directive on electronic crime? I want to say this for this part and I will finish. So, at the moment, we obviously have a gentlemen's agreement between the ministers. The Prime Minister accepts other amendments to an unrelated bill, and obviously the Minister, who introduces the unrelated amendment to the bill, owes the return to a next bill of his own, to the Minister who accepted it. We do not even promote legislation, nor do we promote the possibility of creating a consensual climate within the Chamber of Parliament and on critical provisions yet. But let's go to the bill, which concerns us. We have also expressed by the committee that we will vote on the principle that, even late, it is an international obligation of the country, supplemented by the directive of the European Union, and we believe that the relevant provisions relating to the amendment of the Criminal Code are a single set, and it cannot remain unregulated, crime, electronic crime and, in particular, cross-border, in which criminals have many times created advanced technology, and that the state and those forces, which have the power to protect and enforce the law, are following and most of the time they are plentiful without being able to prevent it. However, it needs to be done in this form and, with this delay, there must be legislation. But we have issues from the law itself. What are the specific issues raised as implementing? Indeed, we agree with the second article on criminal provisions, because it is not possible to supplement the penal code which has been in force in Greece since 1950, with the corresponding provisions introduced by the Minister for Justice: blocking the operation of information systems, attracting children for sexual reasons, illegal access. All this is positive. However, they must be dealt with at some point also in the amendment or in the new drafting of the Criminal Code. We'll see them along the way. We also agree on issues of waiver of confidentiality. Of course, I raised one issue yesterday, and I still think that clarification should be given in relation to Article 4, where the Minister, and I accept it, has determined the President of the AACC as being responsible for sanctions. It is not entirely relevant, but in any case we will consider that the principle of independence has more independence, so that it is now objective, not subject to any pressure or other interventions. Because Mr Papatheodorou has also raised the theoretical question: Do legal persons have criminal responsibility or indirectly through the Boards of Directors? We think they have the natural faces. I have asked - and I think it should be accepted - to clarify that the liability of legal persons, at least for the Greek legal system, where legal persons are not recognised by the Criminal Code, relates to administrative sanctions - purely administrative sanctions - so that there is no impression on those who are not particularly concerned with the subject, that legal persons are punished. At the same time, given that there are many cases of civil liability for damages from cybercrime, legal persons, whose members of the board of directors, the former trustees, who act in their name, urbanly responsible, must be expressly proclaimed in the law, because the Minister is better aware of the concept of civil law, the possibility of the criminal court to control and decide on political claims many times. I therefore believe that we need an explicit complement to Article 4 that the legal person is responsible for administrative fines for his criminal offence, while he is in charge of the criminal court. Let us also give this help to those who are affected. There is no need to discuss Articles 5, 6 and 7. They follow the convention and the directive. The competent authorities are defined. At least, there can be no objections. I have objectioned, however - and I have expressed them - to Articles 8 and 9: Limitation under conditions and suspension of criminal proceedings and limitation under conditions of irrevocable penalties for up to six months. I have asked - I will be tiring, I will repeat today - to define what are the violations, which bring these low penalties today. In our criminal system the two-year sentence is not taken into account either by the offenders or the criminals. Because it will either necessarily be suspended, if it does not have a record or if it has it, it will be converted into money. Indeed, because of the economic crisis, we also know that the courts recognise the financial difficulty of even the offenders and the day-to-day conversion is very low. We therefore believe that it is not worth keeping the acts as criminals, which are repeatedly coming and being recorded. I remind you of Law 1240/1982. It was an unprecedented piece of legislation at that time when, ladies and gentlemen, the conversion of the sentence at first was up to six months and it was later in one year. They were going to jail, and many were being viewed. Well, we should decriminate these acts, turn them into financial fines, find the responsible ones who will make the infringement attestation report and charge, go to the public fund, collect it, feel the chills the offender will pay, if it is done. And now what? By deleting conditionality, we put them in the file. We have no punishment for those who have not yet been tried. The hundreds of thousands of pending cases are known in criminal courts, particularly in large cities. We'll put them in the file and we'll say, "Yes, you know, once the prosecutor has re-trialed them, they'll be recovered by the prosecutor." There has never been any withdrawal over time with all the laws that have been in force and this has answered my question to the committee directly, the Secretary-General of the Association of Judges and Prosecutors. No case-file has ever been recovered, even if it was judged for the same act and convicted of the same natural person. There is no function and possibility to retract. We mock ourselves because we want to dismantle the courts in this way and say that the criminal will also be punished for the previous cumulative. There's no connection at all. These are data as much as we have reached the electronic age, however much as we have arrived, ladies and gentlemen, at a high level of know-how. They're pretenses in sin. So, or do we denounce the actions that are today considered to be being deleted and transfer them to administrative fines and stop mocking ourselves and others, otherwise we cannot vote for such provisions for which, Minister, if they continue, will you be obliged to reinstate them - in six months, in one year? - after the strike of lawyers, which has reasonably kept the length of time for their tax and insurance matters. I'm sure in six months the Justice Department will be forced to rewrite these minor violations. I'm going down to Articles 10 and 11. I do not think that we should stand and see it. But the Judiciary School must have a high authority, it must draw judges, not only law readers, not only lawmakers, but also socially integrated ones to be the living voice of society. Justice must not be mechanistic in the sense: the law, which is a major proposal, is a minor proposal, the facts and the extent to which they arise, as they have been in court. Conclusion on this: Efficiency is a very serious matter. The Greek judges have the level to maintain it to a high degree, as we have now said that the only refuge is in justice many times. There's nothing left but give them the arrangements for the judge school and the supplies to go ahead. Of course, on the issues referred to in Article 11 which are being dealt with in two months' time and we are intervening with amendments to the Code of Justice, at risk of intervention and even the result, we cannot vote on this article, because we feel that regardless of any thought there is, it creates the preconditions for us to come to the interventions and the archaeological precedents of the judges, since we now have a legislative framework two months ago, which creates the conditions to call on Yiannis or Kostas to come to an agreement. And after all, they're the judges. They too want to have power in the large courts and I do not think we are helping them like this or that we are contributing to maintaining a high degree of independence. For Rule 12, yes, for the committees to be recommended, for codification to be carried out. We'll see these along the way. What it means is codification, of course, I will empirically tell you that it can last years or it can soon be done electronically by a legal intelligence bank. I have said about the NSRF how it was seized for codifications in various sectors. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, if I may, I shall use my dentistry. With the extension of the regulation of Law No.4322, which is contained in Article 15, I am firmly opposed, and I have explained why. It does not contribute to anti-crime policy. We see that while the previous law of 2015, which provided for decongestion of prisons, comes within a year, the need to extend it for two years, namely to include even cases where the sentence is at the stage of execution and the results of criminal prison have not been achieved. And we will open the doors from prisons to liberate a large number of prisoners in the name of decongestion, because the Greek state is constantly reluctant to address the issue of the operation of prisons and all it does is release. Hey, no! We cannot say that. I raised a matter in committee twice, the issue of the fear of society. Whether you like it or not, the great crime in Greece comes from foreigners now, who will often say it directly, are imported to commit crime in the form of robbery, thefts, etc. I say this responsibly, Minister. Whole villages are imported - I do not want to name the countries - to criminalise them! This can't be done. We can't get them out in four years when we have a ten-year sentence. Because, since the penitentiary system has failed, it has no possibility of penitentiary, we cannot take them out and go through other doors in Greece and continue this "lash" activity. Society is afraid of this provision and I will say it straight away! She is afraid that she is now in a conflict, which is also a conflict of rights. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, give me some more time. The civilians, who have become victims of violence, count the days of release of those who have committed crime against them. So, is that what we will do in the name of individual rights or convictions by the European Council for Individual Rights? We will, if you will, find other solutions, but not what is being done. It is a disgrace and an insult to justice when it imposes penalties in this way. In my view, it is also unconstitutional to intervene in the law, because the indictment of justice is a judicial decision, for which I do not know whether the government and Parliament can intervene. I'll check it out. Finally, in order not to abuse time, the authorizing provision for witness protection, and yesterday I said that it is so vague that the question of witness protection has become a 'good job'! I stop there, I don't explain why I'm saying it. The last and tragic is the provision of immunity to experts, which, of course, should not have, because they will have the management of the entire public property, with the so-called superstition. And will we provide them with immunity according to what criteria? What if they comply with the external legality? The internal legality of who will control them? They must be controlled by the criminal courts. In fact, the Scientific Service of the Parliament, which we are all monitoring and respecting its opinions, says that the Court of Auditors' decision, which will be a presumption of legality, is a rebuttable presumption. This is because the Electoral Court examines the fraudulent, negligence and its extent, only that the financial provisions are respected. It cannot therefore give rise to an act of civil or criminal interest. We therefore believe that this point opens up the bottleneck for immunity and in a series of other acts, which will come tomorrow - both for banks and for many other things, and with the outline of external legality there will be a great deal of fun. Mr President, thank you very much for your tolerance and colleagues for their attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Mrs Keramea has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u22	No, not yet, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u23	If the Members of Parliament do not want to speak, we shall necessarily go to the speakers. Mr Tsakalis Charilaos, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, after a long period of inertia of the Greek state, we are debating today the draft law on ratification of the Convention on cybercrime, but also the transposition of Directive 2013/40 on attacks against information systems. The contract for cybercrime was a pioneering text for its time in 2001. Its main aim is to establish rules of law, with a view to dealing with crime on the Internet. It establishes the obligation to harmonise Greek laws on cybercrime. Its ratification today by the Greek Parliament is an initiative of high importance, given the spread of the Internet and the risks it places on citizens, consumers and vulnerable groups, such as children. The "wonderful new world" of the Internet has been here for a long time. The Internet is now in all our lives, from childhood to the oldest, who have been able to familiarize themselves, in private and in public spheres, but also in the professional track of the vast majority of citizens. The internal legal system, however, had a lack of protection against the specific field of crime. In Greek law cybercrimes are currently being punished in principle under the provisions of Law 1805/1988, which introduced to Articles 370B, 370C, 386A of the Criminal Code the crimes perpetrated by computers, since such offences are committed on line, in the latter. In Greek legislation, there is no law that refers exclusively to cybercrime. The cybercrime, however, bears particular characteristics that make its criminal prosecution difficult: It's the first thing about speed. The operations in question are carried out in a minimum period of time and are often not understood by the victim. A second feature is convenience. The operations in question shall be easy and shall be carried out by the computer and the operator's premises. Third characteristic is anonymity. The committing of cyber crimes exploits the relevant anonymity offered by certain technological infrastructures of the Internet. Fourthly, cross-border character. Preparatory action, acts and results of cybercrime usually take place at the same time in many prerogatives. The fifth feature is the difficulty in investigating these crimes. The sixth is the lack of adequate recording. The size of cyber crimes involved is disproportionately greater than the reported incidents. The main feature of this international convention that will significantly enhance protection from cybercrime is the obligation that Member States undertake to criminalise specific internet behaviour, such as the distribution of pornographic material on the Internet, the involvement of adults in sexual contact with the use of the Internet, the copying without copyright. In addition, the Convention aims, firstly, to supplement the procedural provisions in force in the Contracting Parties in order to improve the ability of judicial and police authorities to carry out their investigations in real time in order to collect the necessary evidence at the geographical limits of the national territory of the executing State before such evidence is lost and, secondly, to adapt the rules described in the Council of Europe Conventions on extradition and judicial assistance. In particular, it is noted that any interference in computer data and systems, hackers, data thefts, etc. is punishable. and computer-based offences. In particular, child pornography offences are being handled on the Internet. The latter is very important, since the sexual exploitation and abuse of children have increased to worrying proportions, both at national and international level, due to the increasing use of computer children. The illegals involved in the matter exploit the difference in legislation from a State to a State which this Directive is trying to eliminate. Finally, with the bill we are debating today, criminal protection against child pornography is further strengthened by amending the existing provision in Article 348a of the Criminal Code. Further with the arrangements of the project in conjunction with those for the confidentiality of communications, which is also promoted by the Ministry of Justice, each citizen will be best assured by offences and attacks on his or her personality by means of modern electronic systems. Undoubtedly, the ratification we are debating today makes the implementation of an improved level of protection in cyberspace reality. It is a great success and a strong Greek "yes" after the European "yes" to strengthen the security of the information society and the protection of citizens in today's digital age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, too. Mr Athanasios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Council of the European Union has asked the Member States to ratify and fully implement the Convention of 23 November 2001 on cybercrime as of 4 September 2015. They have asked to carry out'solid' - this argument uses - within their own law Directive 2014/41/EU of the European Union on the order of investigation in criminal matters, to ensure sufficient capacity and to process requests for mutual legal assistance related to cyber investigations. Finally, to facilitate the exchange of information to speed up the procedures for mutual judicial assistance. I therefore welcome the convention as such for its ratification to be incorporated into the Greek legal order, because this convention wants to protect legal goods that are being violated, which are of great value for the completion of the European Union, European integration. These principles, as indicated, are the principle of confidentiality, availability and integrity of information. And crimes are formed due to the imperfection of the provisions of the Criminal Code, Articles 370B' and 370C' in three categories. They are the crimes through the computer, which supplement the articles I mentioned to you, the crimes related to the content of digital data and the crimes related to the attack on the information systems. So, in order to allow the waiver of confidentiality, these articles have been added to the Criminal Code and they are also punished in addition and I think the preparatory acts are right. Let's go to the articles now. Article 4 refers to administrative penalties for legal persons where the legal person’s bodies carry out acts of that law. We were very concerned about the fact that a similar provision had been passed in the Racism Act. At that time, the European directive provided that the institutions of legal persons representing them under the statutes should also be punished and therefore they should be punished if these institutions were to take racist action. It is therefore not an unknown provision. You'll see a difference. What did he do to us then? We were concerned about the form and nature of the sanctions imposed by the Minister of Justice. Indeed, with this provision - I am referring to n.4285/2014 against racism - there was no independent authority involved and therefore the Minister of Justice was given the competence. It was therefore a reflection of this. If, in other words, the sentence submitted to legal persons may be submitted by the Minister, as Mr Javarras said earlier, he said about a confusion of competence - but also by Mr Carras, because the Minister is also diagnosing the sentence and imposing it. I am aware that the Minister will submit a legislative improvement, so this is given to the ETUC. It is welcome and we expect to see the legislative improvement. In Article 8, to eradicate the deportation and the cessation of criminal prosecutions for trespasses and offences committed until 31 March 2016, when threatening a prison sentence of up to two years. Such provisions have been passed by the legislator from time to time. For eight years now, it has been going through the decongestion of the prosecutors, mainly because these cases have been pending. But then we predicted, Minister, for up to a year. I cannot explain today what made you upload the limit and offend offences until criminality is eliminated for both years. We had told the committee if we could have statistics so that we could appreciate them. On the issue of non-implementation of penalties for up to six months, the Greek legislator, like many other lawmakers in other countries, provides for this sentence. Therefore, in view of the fact that the speaker had brought it back, I could not say anything more. It is a provision, which is repeated by many of our predecessors. In Article 10, for the Judiciary, I'm telling you that with the legal improvement, the foreign language goes to 0.5. That's welcome. Our request for the Association of Judicial Courts was therefore accepted in committee. Article 11, which is also a very basic article and I see no change in it, after what has been heard by the rapporteurs of the parties and also by the judiciary associations. It's incomprehensible, Minister. While the committee is set up, which will reform the Code of Justice and the Statute of Courts, I cannot understand what is needed on the eve of elections to amend two specific provisions. It is something that the Vice-President of the judiciary, Mr Lyberopoulos, have been able to follow this development, in the hope that you will bring some sort of legislative improvement, so that there are no interventions at the Court of Justice and as other speakers have said - and I say it - they will be photographic. As regards the re-election we said that it is not right to hold elections on eve. It's not right for me. Never. There's no such provision. If you look at the rapporteur's report when this provision of the Court of Justice, on the Kouvelakis Ministry, was made, the aim was to ban re-election, in order to avoid groupings and - let me say - the Rusphetti benefits to the judiciary with the hope of re-election. I cannot understand what this provision has, much more than the 12 or thirteen courts and prosecutors elections in self-government, only two have judicial officers who have the right to re-election because others have been promoted. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, Mr President, I am not going to do anything about it. I do not have much to say. Just a minute. I cannot understand and please see this provision and withdraw it. Of course, the information says that it may not be your own initiative, but the Deputy Minister, but this is another matter. I believe that, if it is voted, the two judges who have this right to stand, respecting the validity, independence of justice and their personal prestige will not run. I am sure they will support self-government in this way. The second intervention you're making is that you're transferring the deputy heads. And that's not right. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] Because, if the Deputy Heads of State or Government are promoted, they must, in accordance with the provision you are proposing, become the Deputy Head of State, the oldest of those who were not electorate. But the oldest could be older than the elected man. So you need to see that, too. And we cannot understand why a provision which has worked all these years so well, without any problem at all, you want to abolish it. On the issue of peacekeeping, I should like to say a few words.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Athanasios, the cage has long been saved.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, I beg your pardon, but these are very basic issues. We won't get second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u29	Mr President, there are not many speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u30	This is a serious matter, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u31	We have also followed the practice of no longer having a double debate, on the principle and on the articles. We unify them. At least give us some time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u32	Now, in the thirteenth article with a legal error - because this is what this is about - Article 44 of Law4356/2015 is being amended, which established the Keeper's Office. What is stated in the explanatory statement, however, is that the qualifications of the Head of Administration are now more specific, who was supposed to have experience in detention stores, and now has to be a university education, financial or administrative. The provision refers only to the qualifications and experience of 'preferably', which should be essential, i.e. the experience it should have because of the sensitive object. As far as the 15th article is concerned, I shall see the legislative improvement. You haven't brought her yet. I hope it pleases us. However, as this provision stands, it is not right. I do not want to say that it is unacceptable, but it is not right. And we've spotted it when the law was passed. I remember that Mr.4322/2015 passed this provision. In fact, in the last subparagraph of paragraph 3, the provisions shall be made more favourable for those who have been sentenced to ten years. And those who have been sentenced for more than ten years, that is to say, up to twenty years - which has not so far existed in the existing legislation - can be fired by one third not of the actual building, but also by the beneficial calculation. So pedophiles and pedophiles will come out and with a lot of other offences. I do not know what you are going to do with the amendment. And I wanted to ask the colleagues of the other parties and especially the co-chairmen, the ANELs, although the rapporteur is now missing. Do they agree with these provisions? Will they vote for them? So the ANELs want the pedophiles and all these criminals who have caused public feeling to come out? Now, regarding the outside guards, they've been said. Don't repeat it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Athanasios, there is one more reason not to repeat what you have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u34	I shall conclude, Mr President. Just to say discharge from criminal liability. I will only say one thing about the criminal responsibilities for the superstate, which are discharged. It is an issue that needs to be discussed. But here, Mr President and colleagues of SYRIZA, I am obliged to read you out of the booklet you took out - 'The Black Paper' - with which you were accusing the Government of New Democracy and PASOK of 'Customs Laundry', where we suspended criminal prosecutions while the examination took place. And now you are bringing in provisions that you completely relieve them of. And I am referring to Mr Rupakiotis, who had voted on my predecessor, Mr Rupakiotis, who says that, for the former and now, future legal representatives of companies under militarisation, criminal prosecution is suspended. You told us about laundry. Page 61.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u35	It's a big book, Mr. Athanasios. It's too big a book, and it's not enough time. Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u36	That's essential. I'm done. It's a proposition. Read, ladies and gentlemen, especially SYRIZA. Get that little bookie.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u37	You've taken time for a special speaker, Mr. Athanasios. It can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u38	Not even Che Potta, Mao Tse Tung's Minister of Propaganda, would write those to be implemented now. That's SYRIZA, that's what he said, and that's what he's doing today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u40	Mr President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u41	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. I would like later to reply to the substance of the remarks which have been made, when the composition of the House will be quite different from the composition of the committee, to which we have already discussed some things. But, in order to be distributed and made aware in good time to Members of Parliament of the legislative improvements which I am proposing, I am now confined to making them known. It is known to the members of the committee. Nothing's changed. Some are precisely techniques, changes in words or titles that are not essential. However, some of them do have quality improvement - and not only technically - as is, for example, the change in the institution, which imposes administrative fines in the case of cybercrime. Instead of the Minister, it is now laid down that we will have a reasoned decision to impose the safeguarding authority on the Privacy Authority of Communications. Indeed - as in Mr Athanasiou's speech earlier with meaning I confirmed - the degrees now given both in general education and in foreign language will have a rate of 0.5 and not 0,2 for admission to the School of Judges. Also, this legislative improvement is corrected and the wording of the exception that I have already supported with amendment and before the committee. In other words, on the basis of an observation made, which left me to understand that it may be unclear to the text of the law which provides for exemption, and so forth, it is specifically provided that the above condition of dismissal, but also the procedure, will be imposed. There is no exception to the temporary detention of those who have committed a felony of Article 339 and the paragraphs which are felony and where the disability is over 80% and not on the basis of 50% or 67%, as was the case until now. In addition to these legislative improvements, I am tabling another legislative improvement, which has emerged from today's debate. I have been informed that during my absence, as a problem, the breach of a maintenance obligation as a crime under Article 358 of the Criminal Code was not excluded from the limitation of the term. I think that this remark was correct and, therefore, the legislative improvement adds to many, in any case, exceptions to the existing limitations and to the criminality of Article 358 of the Criminal Code. I'm making the legislative improvements to the Minutes. Thank you very much. [[At this point the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Mr Nikolaos Paradulopoulos, presents for the minutes the abovementioned legislative improvements, which are as follows:]] Change Page [[To enter pages 121-124]] Change Page
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, too. Mr Amyras, Parliamentary Representative of the River.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, Minister, I would like to ask for some clarification on the legislative improvements that you have said, but we will see it along the way. First of all, we must ask the government to stop this rough way of legislating. It has now become a permanent and stable procedure that, in sanctions for international conventions or in the incorporation of European directives, bills are coming, which have not gone through the suffering of the committees and the full and normal parliamentary procedure. So we ask you to deal with the issues in particular of anti-crime policy in an overall way rather than 'blocks' unrelated to each other. After all, I would remind you that a few months ago this Parliament voted for the decongestion of prisons. Now we have a mini-legislative similar to the previous one that you voted for and a lot of people came out of prisons, with quite unpleasant results. In any case, we have a few comments to make here. With regard to Article 17 yesterday, Minister, you accepted a motion for a legislative improvement from all the parties, from all the wings for the external security and the portrait of detention stores. You said you saw it positively. This morning, that's it. What's been going on since last night? Who pushed you? Who affected you? Who directed you to ignore the joint motion of the parties, which you had seen positive and to go to another regime? Secondly, we must say a few things about the amendments. As regards Amendment No 589 and Amendment No 35, on the legal status of members of the independent authorities: what does this amendment say? He tells us that now teachers, academics, who are members of independent authorities, will be able to work in their universities, in their academic duties and in the educational establishments. Why are you doing this? You're supposed to be a member of an independent authority is full-time, responsible and high profile. In other words, you are telling us that they do not have a stimulus and that they do not decide to come to the independent authorities because they want to carry out their academic duties. Well, then exercise their academic duties. They cannot be teachers and members of the independent authorities. We had so far not seen a single academic refuse to enter an independent authority because he wanted to follow academic career. Those who wanted to do that anyway did it. So we consider this amendment to be wrong. I shall also refer to the amendment under the general number 595 and a special number 38, supplementing the provisions of the Code of Lawyers. Here we would like to ask you: Have you heard the Association of Athens, Thessaloniki, the representatives of the judiciary? Was there some sort of agreement? Was there any consultation? And why is it an amendment and it does not come into a normal process? Like, for example, I could say, one that has long been awaiting legal world, changes in family law. Speaking of which, when are these changes going to be made? When are they coming for discussion? There are many issues open. European case-law goes on to various issues, such as the common custody of children. We're behind. There are judgments of European Courts. Let us know about this, too, Minister. I am also going to talk about Amendment No 594, on disability rates. It's weird. It is, I would say, unreasonable to consider the 67% disability rate as a ground for release, and not to be considered a reason for non-reservation. One with 80%, 90% disability rate will be confiscated, but with 67% will be released. What's going on here? We are negative to this amendment and we want explanations. I am also going to talk about Amendment No 596 on the OAED. I don't know if the best way to deal with unemployment is to hire three hundred sixty people to the OAED itself, that is to create three hundred sixty new organic jobs. And this with an amendment? Is that how we deal with unemployment? Where's the whole plan? Where's the whole program? Where is the justification for these three hundred new organic positions? Also, in this amendment, in the second part, it says that the ministers themselves will decide the criteria for financing some socially beneficial packages in some projects that no one knows what specialities will be involved, under which conditions, with which time limits. That's what the Minister will decide. But what is this minister? Who is it? Is that the sultan? Does he know everything? Should there not be any other procedures, more solid, more transparent? Shouldn't there be a control procedure? Referring now to the issues of the digital world and cybercrime, let me say that the digital world, the online world is like real life: You will find in and opportunities to learn, to learn, for travel, about your entertainment, about lifelong learning programs, about buying, for pleasure, about a thousand two. As in real life, which is a "periphery": You'll find the good, you'll find the bad ones. Of course, here the crime and inconsistency that develops through cyberspace is peculiar, because older generations cannot follow the facts, they are left behind and their responsibility towards the members of their family, especially their children, is gradually retreat. Therefore, it is necessary to upgrade technology tools at individual, parental and collective level. Responsible use is the most important. The responsible use. Whether you're a parent or not, especially for your children, you need to figure out how to monitor developments. Of course, I can only remember the way in which the head of the electronic crime, Mr. Sfakianakis, was almost downgraded by his post. Let us know what's happened to this case. Who's in charge of his position? Where are we? Make us an account of your decision - the government - at the time of dismantling, degrading a man who had done a terrible job in a sensitive area, in the E-Crime Police, saving lives, finding criminals and above all showing a way to how public administration should operate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr Amyras, for the time economy. Mr Christos Hadjisavvas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. We have a ratification of a Council of Europe Convention on cybercrime, protocols, criminalisation of acts of racism and so on. In fact, however, it is another raw intervention by the supranational organisation of the European Union in the legislation of the States of Europe, with the aim of dismantling nations as sovereigns. Of course, New Democracy only said to all of this is 'you have finally brought it'. Fifteen years he hadn't come, he's late, and you finally brought it in to save us. So, technically speaking, most of what it predicts, whether it is impossible or completely ridiculous, is for someone who has been involved at least a little, without having to study programming. For example, it speaks of communication of information systems. This communication of information systems will therefore be lost in practice, due to the incompatibility of hardware and software. Especially in Greece, it will be absolutely impossible to coordinate them. He's still talking about an idea of checking the stored data. Saved data where in today's society? Web cloud? On detachable devices or on web servers, which are anonymous and dispersed around the world? It provides protection against online attacks, the so-called ‘hacking’. Are you sure, Minister, that they have not hacked your page and that the hackers have not changed in favour of what is being referred to here? For example, it says that they will have refrigerants if not installed and used special software to make the attacks. You know, we're living in an era of open code software. We've all got a phone and we've all got one on our phones. We download applications thinking we know what these applications do. But, behind it, a 99% more functionality can be concealed, which no one knows. Okay, we may not be summoned to court - we will be summoned, you mean "we" - but if someone is summoned, the other will claim that I did not know what this application was doing and I used it well. But I did 'hacking'. It also says that the use of this software is not criminalised if it is done for testing. In other words, it leaves a back door and as an excuse again in court, but mainly for the use of safe applications, these same as the'serious horses', to the safety of either national agencies or industry. Most of all, it is the refreshing that provides those who will "hacking", the intercept, but will not destroy, he says, data. You know, the most well paid industrial, but also at national security level, online attack today is not the destruction of information, but the acquisition of information, leaving its owner to believe that it is confidential. So they intercept this information, they use it, and if you catch them and have not done any damage, that is lightening. For example, Snowden, who intercepted all the files of the National Intelligence Service, has this lightning. So anyone who intercepts data from a Greek agency or agency and publishes them, but has not falsified them, will have this lightning effect. Now, we are going to the points about racism and xenophobia, that is, about the Golden Dawn what you legislate. "Each written, picture or other expression of ideas that support, promote hatred, discrimination, violence against individuals, group, based on race, colour, origin, ethnic origin, religion." For ideology? Those who aim for ideology on the Internet will be persecuted when on a site such as indymedia, but also on social media, the leader of the Golden Dawn is targeted, the MPs of the Golden Dawn are targeted. Our offices are constantly under attack. They're filming with the police escort that they're taking and hitting. They're going to be prosecuted? Of course, we are also going to the next level, those who target the voters of the Golden Dawn. I have here some excerpts from pages online, valid, but also from a well-known singer in your area anyway, which says: "Baby, punks, you have been paid attention. Die fascists, members and voters." I shall submit the relevant excerpts for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Hadjisavvas, presents for the Minutes the above extracts, which are found in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Such publications will be prosecuted? Attacking by profession, if you're wearing an ethnic, are you a police officer or a military officer and targeting you online, are you going to be persecuted? What is racism and nationalist crime, anyway, for you online, in this scale that you put and weigh? If you see your flag flying, you hear the national anthem and you tear, it's a nationalist? No, if Obama does, the President of the United States, say, is not. If, however, a Greek does, it is nationalist and fascist to see the Greek flag and to cry. If you reproduce reasons of race fighters, like Martin Luther King, Mohammed Ali, is racist and nationalistic? But if you write lyrics of Makrigiannis, Kolokotronis, Iona Dragoumi, Pericles Giannopoulou, Kazantzakis, for the race and for the race, it will be racist and xenophobic. But that law does exist. There's been a long time. Only applicable to Greeks. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Flying images, with parliamentary content, here I speak, on this page I pick up it up on a page and take it down as a racist. But who can be freely expressed? Can the blind Albanians be freely expressed in the Greek army by making the big Albanian mark? They can. Friends question the Pontius Genocide? Maybe. The jihadists who shoot people at concerts that hit people with the truck? They can also have pages, they can also have social media. The ones who behead priests? They can. Are those who slaughtered a 12-year-old child and even today's Facebook account is active, for example, will they be persecuted? Are these accounts coming down? And most of all, those who go through and target Golden Dawn rivals - we have two dead, a thousand days have completed and the killers have not yet been found - when they make announcements, will they be prosecuted with this law? Well, for all these laws, people will go and vote Golden Dawn, because the Golden Dawn can and will not endure forever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u47	The Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Katrugalos, has the floor to present the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. These are three amendments, essentially, to continue yesterday's announcements by the Prime Minister on the new social state and to the perception that we want to see in the post of fragmentary arrangements, which reflected the customer character of the old political system, to set out a new concept aimed at universality and complementarity of the related benefits, what we call 'liberated from fear'. The regulations that we are now bringing about concern the labour sector and especially the attempt to tackle unemployment and the CSCE. As far as unemployment is concerned, we are introducing a number of corrective measures in the employment programmes, the so-called 'guidelines', with a new feature, which is that there is the possibility of providing work in this regard, apart from municipalities, in schools, hospitals, public-law legal services and ministries' services, and that there is additional funding from national resources, in addition to what we can obtain from Community funds. There is also a special provision for extending specific programmes relating to services related to immigrant or refugee needs due to the well-known problem that exists. For CSR, the provision introduced has essentially two legs. The first is of a general nature and will apply to all beneficiaries or former beneficiaries of the CSR until it is replaced by the new system provided for by the insurance reform, i.e. recalculated by including a national pension after 2018. This provision, therefore, concerns, firstly, the full exemption from the pharmacological cost of those who cease to be beneficiaries, secondly, the continued provision to those with a disability of more than 80% and thirdly, if the loss of the allowance was for both spouses, to continue to pay equal pay to those with the lowest income. There are two special arrangements for 2016. They are special because of the time that will change the way in which CSCE is adjusted. They provide for those with a loss of more than 30 euros a month, their exemption from participation, the contribution to health, in favour of EEAS 6%. There is also provision for granting a prepaid solidarity card to all those who have a loss of more than EUR 115 by providing an equal level of 30% of the loss. We estimate that in this way we cover 40% to 70% of the losses suffered by the beneficiaries of the CSCE. We hope in the future, and with additional measures, that we will be able to cover this greasy wound in the Greek society that, as you know, was not the subject of the insurance reform, but it was one of the things that we were unable to avoid in the context of the forced compromise of July last year, which was announced by the previous government via the e-mail Hardouvelis. What we are doing is on the one hand to replace the ESS with a more complete measure such as the national pension and to introduce these necessary and necessary relief measures for those who need to be relieved until the end of 2018 comes and see the full implementation of the reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u49	So do we. Ms. Megalo-Economics from the Centro Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u50	I am sorry, Mr President, I would like to make it clear on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u51	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u52	Minister, can you clarify what amendment the CSCE regulations refer to? We see 596/39, which actually refers to programmes of a public interest, and above all to the recruitment of three hundred and sixty young people with new organic positions in the public sector, but what is that about the EAS on what amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u53	These are three amendments. Fortunately you spoke, because I announced the third, but I did not mention it. It concerns an extension of the time limit for the order of notice. I have them before me from the General Secretariat of the Government, but I do not have the number. You will allow me to ask and come back to give you...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u54	However, these amendments have not been tabled at the moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u55	So they haven't been filed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u56	The briefing I have received is that it would be submitted at the time I was going to speak. Since this has not been done...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u57	Are you talking to the House without being filed?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u58	I apologise on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u59	Mr President, there is also a limit.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u60	Does the Minister speak in this House without the amendments being tabled?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u61	Minister, with all due respect, there's a limit.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u62	We have said, Mr President, that this will not...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u63	Please. Your parliamentary representative is speaking. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u64	You're right, ladies and gentlemen. And I had the feeling...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u65	This has happened too! Let's write it down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u66	Mr. Javarra, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u67	You're right. I had the feeling they've been filed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u68	You recorded a big score against the old client system!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u69	Mr. Javarra, respect your parliamentary representative. You're always addressing out...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u70	Excuse me. Do you realize...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u71	You know...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u72	That's it. It's over!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u73	Are we listening to an amendment that we have not taken and that has not been tabled?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u74	There is full respect for the parliamentary procedure on the part of all of us. There is, as you can see, also the need for the immediate relief of the people who have lost the CSCE. Since the first of August this arrangement will come into force. Obviously, this is a misconception with the General Secretariat of the Government...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u75	When you testify, Minister, you will take the floor. Okay? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u76	Ms. Big Economics has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the criminalisation of certain behaviours, as standardised in the relevant convention today, is another proof of slowness with which we are moving, given that the internet site is much faster than normal life. We should not have waited for European legislation to incorporate criminal laws into our legal system for criminal offences on the Internet. But as our grandparents were saying, 'good late than never'. Cybercrime is also affecting Greece, its citizens, legal persons and the state itself. It was impossible to deal with the law in force. Prosecutors for the protection of victims resorted to legal acrobatics and for that reason, most of the time, the perpetrators were usually accustomed. So the incorporation of the contract into Greek law is beyond necessary. My comment on the bill is that it should have been provided for a method of explanation of all these detailed technical terms mentioned by the judges and prosecutors of the country, so that the judicial authorities are ready to start such cases. It is clear that crime is always a step ahead of the prosecution authorities. In fact, when we talk about the Internet site, which events are evolving even faster, then we should be sure that future perpetrators have already found ways to never find. Information systems and the smooth operation of networks are more vulnerable today than ever. Anyone from the other side of the world can intervene in systems of citizens, businesses and the state itself. We have been shown many times that young hackers are invading even technologically advanced America. So my thought suggests that the institutionalisation and specificisation of the infringements should be well established, but it would be better if we could have a great deal of time to penalise ourselves. It is better to have a cyberattack, rather than punish the perpetrator, who may never be arrested, because he may be on the other end of the world, so we may not know him. So, in addition to the legalisation of criminal laws, we should see how we can help the authorities by hiring specialist pre-review officials and specialising the existing ones, working with police and many pre-reviewing authorities, with the European and American authorities that are clearly more specialised, with constant support and with the necessary funds, since preventing a crime can generate multiple gains from subsequent condemnation and the search for responsibilities and possible losses. As far as the provisions we are introducing are concerned, Article 8 eliminates criminal offences and ceases to prosecute specific crimes identified as minor ones. This is the second time this has happened. And I wonder why this might happen. Did the judicial authorities of the country tell you that they can't deal with these cases? They asked you why you're giving a general favor to a large part of the defendants? If the legislature really considers that these offences are of reduced criminal value, let us abolish them. Let us only impose fines. But this legislation is not justified enough. And another question: Why did you choose as the time to eliminate the criminal on 31-3-2016? Why this date and not someone else? For example, 31-12-2015 or 31-5-2016. Why did you choose 31-3-2016? Furthermore, with regard to this provision, the report of the General Accounting Office of the State states that expenditure will be saved from the cessation of prosecutions and the substantial abolition in the development of the courts, without further specifying the basis on which the report supports it. In my opinion, money will be lost from the public, from the financial penalties, the costs of justice, the misrepresentation of lawyers who will never be paid. So, beyond the moral issue, there will also be economics. As regards Article 8, Article 9 and Article 15, you give me a sense of lawlessness. That anyone can do whatever they want, and after all, something magical will be done, and the shooter will get rid of it. In every trial, however, except for the defendant, there is the victim. The legislator must keep equal distances to the victim and to the perpetrator. Article 15 on the decongestion of prisons is a provision in which there is again a failure of the penitentiary system. Of course, and I did not expect your government to solve the problems of so many years. But I'm asking. Why should we give years to hard criminals? There is a plan for the future that I can tolerate. But I'm very afraid that this extension of regulation will become a custom. And the more it will fail the penitentiary system, the more it will harden crime, since when convicted for fifteen years, it will serve five years. Moreover, when intervention in the time of release is so deep and essential, it is a question of whether we will ultimately intervene as legislative authority in the court ruling. When the judge decides that someone should be sent for ten years to a penitentiary, he has specific cases in front of him and he does not know that the legislator can intervene and release him earlier. If we want to decongested prisons, let us apply digital provisions such as that with the bracelet, which has a reduced resonance, as I am aware. Perhaps we should have a comprehensive, substantial debate on the issues of penitentiary anti-crime policy and not, as today, a pressing debate on a European convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u78	So do we. The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Rabbit, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u79	In the beginning of the debate, I should like to refer to an event which is once again a challenge to the health of the corpses of the Greek people. The country's Prime Minister, Tsipras, came out yesterday, and said that those who will get through their wallet, through their pockets, EUR 300, EUR 350, EUR 400 - in fact they are being held back in the way I want - will go and give them a solidarity card of EUR 25, EUR 20 to go to pick up their pockets and go to take any bottle of milk, these people might and could feed their family, their child. Which family to feed with 25 and 30 euros? This came and told us and took off state channels mainly, which remind old Soviet Union. This process now has the Greek TV, the state channels. They put it into effect to tell us what good the Prime Minister and the government of our country are, instead of being ashamed of what they are doing. They also take the last pieces left to the Greek worker, they rupture him completely and then he says, "We'll give you a pocket." Who is the Prime Minister, who is the Greek Government who can decide whether to get Greek citizens to start falling in the way I want? All those who had worked at the bottom -- those who wait to get their pensions didn't have half the money. They had paid them out of their pocket. They had paid them on condition that, when they filled the age limits, they would get them back. It is terrible and disgusting what has been happening by the governments of our country over the last few years and today by SYRIZA - ANEL. What does this have to do with? It ties up with the amendment that these disgraceful ones, those who are not at all ashamed of them, are present on Wednesday afternoon with a general number of 592 and a specific number of 113. On 27 July this was the case. Yesterday. What does this amendment say? It says that while we are cutting off the money to pensioners, while we have humiliated the Greek citizen, the Prime Minister, the President of the Republic, the Finance Ministers, National Defence and Foreign Affairs, all of them will be able to travel both inside and abroad. So listen, here are Greek citizens, when they cut you off, they're going to travel, stay in five-foot hotels, and all this will be paid by the Greek people. It is the Greek people to whom the Prime Ministers and the Ministers put their hands in his pocket, in his pants, and take the 50 euros and the twenty Euros from inside and what is left. So they are the same ones who bring these amendments and go through them in the summer, like the common loopers, because the pods are moving like this and they are not saying what they do and they are going through secretly. And it is a "Greek Parliament", which legislates and does not react to what is happening.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u80	Please, Mr President, avoid certain designations which are not appropriate in this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u81	And I'm saying a little! And very little to say! Take the money - not you, personally - but the government's fifties and say 'I'll give you ten euros' and the others to make an amendment, to get them on a long trip? In fact, this amendment - for the Greek citizen to know - was brought to it by the regulation of the emergency, because on Friday Tsipras and Kammenos will take a trip to Paros, with some excuse, with some pretext, will also get a tuxedo of people together, to the health of the suckler. And so, there, all of them, sixty - seventy-four, will stay in five-fourth hotels, which have been closed, and the Greek people will pay for them. And now you tell us to be calm in everything that's been done. We can't be calm. If we become calm with everything we see, it goes on to say something's wrong. So why are these ministers with great fortunes, the Prime Ministers we know they have twenty - thirty houses each, getting party subsidies all these years? They haven't been cut off by party subsidies like Golden Dawn. Why don't they put that money out of their pocket? Why do sixty and seventy people get to go? What do they prove? And after all - the state was working socially and respecting the Greek citizen and not sending him to the trash to look for food, to say okay, let them do so, because the state prospers. But today when the Greek passes these difficulties, are they going on journeys between them? How is that possible? How can they not be ashamed to do it? I repeat, yesterday afternoon it was done and it went through and it was voted. And on Friday, these people will start to go cruise to Paros and the Greek people are looking to find out what they're going to do. Where will he find a package of spaghetti to live on his family? Where will this matter come from? But it seems that in Greek society today, in the Greek state, you must either be a minister or a Prime Minister with the coleagues they have or an illegal immigrant. Some of them can help and give things. We only steal to the ordinary Greek citizen, we only get. And he has the courage, I repeat, the Prime Minister will come out yesterday and order that he will help the Greek citizen. Let's go to this particular bill we're talking about, cyber crimes, about what's racist, xenophobic. And to begin to say, is it racist to be prosecuted by us for speeches we've done? Twenty days ago, about a month ago, there was a waiver of immunity here some of the Golden Dawn MPs for speeches. We talked about it here, you of course don't listen, we don't care, or we don't care about you, we talk about Greek citizens, so they can hear. Is it racist when we, MPs elected, do we not have the right to make a speech? In fact, when we speak on these lines we have as a party. We weren't talking about anything else. We weren't talking about killing anyone or chasing anyone. We said that we would claim a large percentage as Golden Dawn, so that legal means and legal means for illegal immigrants to return home. That is why we are voting for five hundred thousand Greeks. In other words, we are the only party, which after the elections does what it says before the elections, and that's why we're being prosecuted. While, if we were to say other things before the elections, we were to take the votes of the Greek people and then make fun of them, we did various magical, tachychically, then we would be fine. We'd be here at the constitutional arch. That's what's bothering you. Is that, then, a political persecution and racist behavior? Is it racist behavior to give all of you shelter and food only to illegal immigrants? Is it racist in the hot spots that you have created should only enter illegal immigrants in and when a Greek goes to ask for a portion of food from Perama, from Keracini - why are the areas that I live, but of course everywhere, this thing is happening - and they go to ask for a portion of food, from what the Greek people pay, to tell them that 'it is not done, because the mandate we have is to give them only to illegal immigrants'? Is that a racism? Let's see you now? Or is it a racism that we were giving food and aggregating Greek citizens? Because you called that racist. So racist in Greece is if Golden Dawn takes the money of its MPs - I repeat, not the money we have stolen from any party subsidies we receive from the state and banks, which we recapitalise after us - and we give it to our Greek fellow citizens. Because that's what we said. Before the elections we said that the Greek people's money would come back to the Greek people and we are doing so. So that's racist. When you give money and collect food and anything but illegal immigrants, that's not racist. That's democratic. This is the democracy you have built in here. Is it racist to talk about Thrace by some Members of Parliament, by the Greek Parliament, by other means, or by various officials who declare Turkish? They declare Turks these people and we are ashamed that the Greek state does not react. Is it when they talk about a Turkish minority and that Greece treats them badly, is that racist behaviour? I'm saying, is that racist behavior? But if we go out and say that, are we being condemned as fascists? Does that mean, when Members of the Greek Parliament are photographed under its flag, supposedly, independent Western Thrace and that when they go to the Turkish consulate or Ankara and declare the "turkey of the Turks" - Turks in our Thrace, from where and where to - each international convention, every rule of law, doing what they want? What's that thing? Is that racist? Is it racist when indymedia - and Christos Hadjisavvas mentioned earlier - comes out and mentions the name of MPs, executives, simple innocent people, who have done nothing but vote Golden Dawn? Is that racist or is it racist when we go out and report these? Is it racist, when we go out and denounce that the son of the Minister, Skourletis, is attacking us in the offices and being arrested? Now here's what's going on. He's an antiquator. Who? I'm on my way to the empowerment dad. Dad's the power, that's the power. And there goes Mom, who's a shipowner's daughter, and she's taking him with the porch outside the GAAP. And you're the democratic arch and we're fascists now. That's what's going on here. Is it racist what's happening? Is it racist, when we come out and tell our views and we close our microphones, you yell at the guardians, bring the MATs, will you send the NSAs out in a little while to get us out? We say that, when elections are held, and with what we are told, the Greek people are increasingly voting for. You don't want to, this is the democracy you're evangelizing downstairs. So how do you blame us for saying this? You should blame us if we did any more. But you haven't learned so. You've learned that saying other things after that is politics. We've learned that talking other things later is an old man. Saying the same thing before and after that is what empowers us, is the principles and values we have as golden ones. Is it racist when some lads - not to say any other expressions - come out whenever they want all over the territory and burn the Greek flag? Is that racist and racial move? Do these things have to do at the expense of the Greek state, the Greek nation? Is there racism in there? I guess not, huh? There must be no racism there. And with the Internet we have, we are living in the era of the "big brother". We live a “big brother” who watches everything and everything or at least tries to watch everyone and everything. Anyone who has a different view of the Greek society today, the one you, the instrongers, will be chased, prosecuted, enslaved and put into prison, as happened with us. We also saw you talking in here about the lifting of telephone secrets. We, as Golden Dawn, lived these things. You don't have to legislate to do it. Where you want to do it anyway. In us, there is nothing that has been voted on at the time, without any law, no plan, no legal application, you have been following our phones and for your bad luck. For your bad luck, it turns out we were spotless. And then you made some conversations about what we were eating at our house. In fact, the channels were coming out that night - the channels of Alfouzo, which came to the committee yesterday and had been bent on our competitor Cassidiaris, because he could not answer - and with heavy titles "speaking shock" - he says - they mentioned these things. But we had no felony, no offense! You watched us, watched our phones, our computers, what we said to our own people, and nothing came of you. We are Members of the Greek Parliament, you do not want to. So imagine what you can do to a simple Greek citizen. You function, legislate and apply everything according to your will. Do what is best for you and what is expressing you here, this closed society you are, which we have ruined and promised that we will continue to spoil it for you. And we will spoil it not because we are fascists or whatever but because we are Greeks, we love the Greek citizen, we are through the ranks of the ordinary Greek citizen and we fight for him. I will conclude by saying once again that the government has been disgraceful about this amendment. On Friday - I repeat - Tsipras and Kammenos will go on a recreation trip and take from the Greek retired and the last money he has in his wallet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u82	Mr Sarakiotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u83	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to emphasise, in turn, the introduction of the Council of Europe Convention on cybercrime and the directive that updated it, as well as the provisions of the second article of the second part of this draft law which is clear and which resolve issues by supplementing the Convention. Of course, this legislative initiative by the Government forms part of the wider social and deep humanitarian policy which it has announced - and now, with commitment - to the immunisation of fundamental human rights and the instability of the sense of security and justice in a world that is constantly evolving, in a world where digital information and the Internet have entered into every manifestation of our personal, professional and social life and have allowed new dangers and difficultly faced threats to invade our daily lives. Such a threat is also the so-called cybercrime, i.e. committing criminal offences via the Internet, which poses a serious threat not only to the natural or legal persons of private and public law and to the businesses that use it, but also to the public services of the states. The draft law currently being discussed with provisions introduced under national law is primarily aimed at criminalising behaviour within the meaning of cybercrime. In particular, by amending and supplementing provisions of the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure, actions directed against the information networks are punished, i.e. actions aimed at intent to damage the networks and directed against the integrity and availability of the data or computer systems. In addition, acts relating to illegal access, interfering with data and interference with information systems shall be punished. The criminalisation of both the manufacture, possession and distribution of computer programs, the so-called 'a' or 'democratic horses', in the language of Information and other similar means, which make it possible to commit criminal offences. At the same time, criminal protection is strengthened against child pornography by amending the existing provision of Article 348a of the Criminal Code. The provisions on the lifting of the confidentiality of communications are also amended to include all relevant crimes, which, by their nature, are difficult to ensure and to identify those responsible. Finally, I would stress this - in the opinion - as innovative to Greek Criminal Law, given the basic principle of our national legal order, in which criminal liability is personal, in order to effectively punish such criminal conduct when committed by or on behalf of legal persons, administrative penalties are laid down in the form of a fine, the withdrawal or suspension of authorisation and the exclusion of public benefits. However, in addition to the substantial ratification of the Council of Europe Convention and the relevant Additional Protocol on cybercrime and the incorporation into internal law of the European Information Systems Directive, which constitute the major part of the current draft law - which has almost unilaterald our debate today - I would like to dwell on the other provisions of the bill, which concern arrangements for penal and anti-criminal policy and which are also important, as they reflect the deep commitment of the left-wing government to fundamental humanitarian principles, the value of penalisation and respect for the rights of detainees. Apart from the fact that this draft law is a necessary harmonisation with Community law, concerning the definition and consequences of electronic crime, in which there is a marked and worrying increase in recent years throughout Europe, of course not including our country, it is introducing new penitentiary provisions into the penitentiary system, in the context of the government's penitentiary and anti-criminal policy, which, from the beginning of its term of office, has been trying to modernise with considerable improvements in the penitentiary system and the justice system to the extent, of course, of the practicable, given the chronic dysfunctions in both these two areas, an effort which will, of course, in the long term. More specifically, with Article 8 ‘Delete and cease criminal prosecution’ and Article 9 ‘Delete and non-enforcement of penalties on a conditional basis’, I consider that the judicial system, which is drowning in the vast volume of cases pending. The regulation of defective matters, in the manner provided for in those Articles, does not effectively abolish the criminality of acts, since in the event that the same person, who is to benefit from these rules, is subject to a new infringement, then the time of the penalty regulated by those articles will be cumulatively disbursed with the new sentence, but gains valuable time in rendering justice. For Article 15, I consider that it is indeed an article that, by prolonging the beneficial effects of Law No4322/2015 on minors and young prisoners, gives the necessary second opportunity for this sensitive category of prisoners to be reinstated in society. Article 16 gives the State the flexibility needed to define the way and conditions under which public work will be provided as an alternative, reformative measure, as, despite its existence to date, mainly because of bureaucratic turbulence, it has only yielded itself. Article 17 on the external guards of detention stores strengthens their perimeter guard to enhance the security of prisons. The full take-up of duties at the external door of the detention stores by the External Guard Service, made up of uniforms and armed personnel, is expected to enhance their security as a whole. An important issue in Article 18 is resolved, namely the treatment of tritecs as polytecs. In a country that is plagued by hypogenicity and by economic and social crisis, it is an article with social meaning and a sign. I also consider Article 19 to be necessary, as the provisions currently in force for the protection of witnesses have been anachronistic, bureaucratic and incomplete, resulting in difficulties in their use. I can only underline, in closing my present position, that it is clear from the positions of the representatives of the bodies who had the opportunity to present their views in the preparation of this draft law to the competent parliamentary committee that it is welcomed as yet another positive effort by the Government towards modernising our Criminal Law and introducing the necessary measures to democratise our subsequent penal and anti-criminal practices, in essence and decisive steps that I have the honour and I support my vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u84	Mr. Vorides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, allow me to begin with one comment. It has been consolidated as legislative practice, of which I admit I do not understand the need and it is a bad practice, to merge the debate in plenary into a debate that concerns both the principle and the articles and to put seven minutes. We did this when there was too much time pressure for exceptional circumstances. I suppose the House should come back to normality. In any case, seven minutes can't be for both. There must be much longer, if the debate is concise.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u86	You've already lost one minute, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u87	I know you have given tolerance, Mr President, and I recognise it. I am simply saying that we must do what our Rules of Procedure define and stop exceptional procedures, there is no reason to do. I come to the bill, ladies and gentlemen. I have heard something about the rights of the detainees and how it is implemented in this draft law, a commitment of the anti-crime policy of the Left, which is sensitive to these issues. Really? You know, the rights of detainees to find out what they are affected. They're affected by the confrontation in the prisons. They are affected by poor detention conditions. They are affected by the lack of penitentiary. Is the bill doing anything about it? Yes, sir. What the bill does is take out convicted criminals. If you mean protecting the rights of the detainees by not going to prison, and that is what you say, protecting the rights of the detainees, you do not know the legal language at all, but you do not know common sense. When there's a problem of rights or a problem of detention, we make detention conditions, we don't make people out for that reason. Because if we make people out for this reason, we are untrue its sentence and function. Would you like to open a debate on the sentences? I'd love to. Come on, let's talk about the sentences. Not every little bit and a little bit of those convicted of bits, I say, come and erase their conviction. Some people because he lives in some people. Come on and say, the fallouts are no longer criminal and punished by administrative fines. This, yes, is an intervention in anti-crime policy. Do you want to decriminate, why do you consider certain offences to be minor? Come on, say it, we want the decriminalisation of these crimes. But not to be condemned, and then to say, for those who have been sentenced until then, we have a good idea to give them the sentence. But to the others, who were unfortunate, they were sentenced to another point, they were sentenced. That is not anti-crime policy, that is not serious. There have been such arrangements on issues of decongestion. I'm telling you, I'm talking in this vertical way. I was a minister at the time, when the previous government legislated and knew the disagreement I had. But I told you - because you agreed on these - that I would have voted against that regulation at the time. I have consistently opposed these regulations, I have never voted against any of them, I think they are destroying our legal system, destroying anti-crime policy at the place, sending the wrong message in all directions. In all directions, they are essentially only functional arrangements. We can't, we can't go to trial, they're loaded with pins, let's just get rid of them by giving them sentences. They are not targeting anti-crime, they are targeted, precisely because justice cannot function properly. But this is where you go and you do the following. You continue the arrangement, which I had already hampered and criticised in 2015, when you had recommended the law and again remember what is happening. Listen, ladies and gentlemen. What is it that is extended here until June 2017? By mid-2017, the arrangement, which had been in force since 2015 for a period of time since publication is extended. Here's what's going on, who's coming out. Convicted of terrorism. Terror, criminal organization convicted of a lightning. Instead of going ten to twenty years in prison, he took a refrigerant and put him in nine years. What's he doing? Listen, what a sentence he's doing. Two-five in any way. I mean, he actually comes out in ten months. In ten months he's being fired for a criminal organization! Why? Because if it had a decade, since it's 2/5, we've been in four years, in any way, it's some kind of building, so 50% and I'm sorry, it doesn't come out in ten months, it's 20 months. Who? The terrorist! And, be careful, because these are obviously not serious, and we all realize what they mean and understand how bad they do in society, it now begins: Oh, you know, the rapists will come out. Well, of course, juveniles will come out. Well, except for the rapists of juveniles with the legislator's testified. Boy, you're right to exclude juveniles, but now you can explain to me why juveniles should be excluded, but serial killers should not be excluded? Should terrorists not be excluded? What kind of internal hierarchy do we now build within our criminal system, which is, of course, arbitrary? Today we have said that there is a great deal of moral deception among the rapists of minors. Indeed, huge. But if you want to speak with the terms of the Criminal Code, the rapist juveniles are punished with a lighter sentence than a killer is punished. It's just, obviously, because it's a terrible act, and it shocks us and let the SYRIZA MP say 'yes, we'll take off the rapists of minors', uh, now, so we don't get to deal with the child's rapists in particular, we'll leave them inside. But is that now legislation? Is that criminal law? Is it a way of forming an anti-crime policy - and you support this - fellow lawyers? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You give me time, Mr President, I suppose, because I have just begun. So it's clear they don't step anywhere. However, something needs to be done, in addition to these regulations, because you may hear the argument 'you know, they have also been made in the past'. Of course they have also happened in the past, but has someone assessed the consequences of these arrangements? And the past. There's a bad prison decongestion practice, I said it. The Justice Ministers live with a nightmare. They don't live with the nightmare that justice is being delayed. They're used to it. And that's a general impact. The great pressure they have is from prisons and their great misery is decongested. Instead of resolving this with fertile, large, central interventions - if we think that this should be done - through an organised approach and the penal system, but obviously also the operation of the penitentiary system, the answer is what? Open up, unlock, get them out. It doesn't matter that they were convicted, it doesn't matter that he judged this court. And listen to the stupid phenomenon we have in Greece. One hears 'fetched 15 years'. Wow! Terrible sentence! Where's the other 15 years in jail? How much is it? It's five. On the condition that and in the manner of assessment and in these arrangements it makes five out of fifteen. Well, well, let's streamline the system. The Minister doesn't do this for a year and a half now. He doesn't. So we have this issue. But we also have a second issue. Interventions with the Agency for the Operation of the Courts. Excuse me a lot, why? What is the need for two months before the elections to change the organisation of the courts so that two courts in particular, two specific judicial officers, have the opportunity to rejoin them? No death for these judiciaries. They're both excellent. No death! Brilliant. Why is the government doing this? What's he doing? What is the target and why does it expose the judicial officers themselves to such criticisms? Why does he leave them exposed? It says re-election and the Minister told us - he writes in the explanatory statement - that we take advantage of the experience gained. Easy! Was there not experience to date with others, or are there any other judges, who can stand, elected by their colleagues and run the courts? Aren't there? It's the experience. It says the reason why we haven't legislated, who was it? The reason we hadn't legislated was that there would be no transaction and pressure from the judicial officers who run the courts by their colleagues, because they would have the prospect of being re-elected. So we're entering a ballot pressure process. We know this process. She was cut, because she was unable to re-elect in the sensitive area of justice. Why are we doing this now? The Minister responded "always now, because those in office did not know about it in order to run no no nomination have they done it". Precisely. Of course, the active and potential candidates have not done so. Of course they have not, but are we legislating for those who have now done, or are we legislating for tomorrow? Or will you make legislation, which you will keep for four months and then 'inform' in the next four months, after the elections are over? So what is the feasibility of the intervention to the Statute of Courts at this stage? Unfortunately, I fear that the feasibility lies with logic, which concerns a wider plan, which exists in justice today. And that is what the Minister is following it unfaithful, while others in the government are active. And it's written into a more general plan, which is about the government. Listen to something: ladies and gentlemen, the government has suffered a severe blow. Why? Because she has disproved what she has said, undoing her basic principles, pretending to be the left and making demobilizations, pretending to be the left and cutting off the ESS, pretending to be the left and reducing pensions. She's in total collapse and resentment with her basic announcements. It's captured at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u88	Mr. Voridis, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u89	I shall conclude, Mr President. And, above all, it is now in conflict with those social powers that have highlighted it. What's her answer to that? Her answer is: The shading with corruption, the shading with the complexity, the incrimination of all those who have a different viewpoint. You're a journalist and you don't like SYRIZA? You're going indictment to S.H.I.E.L.D. You're a media agent and you don't support SYRIZA? Let's see what we're gonna do to you. We'll do you an examination to see what happens to you. You're a mediaman and you're blessing our Prime Minister? We'll set you up a framework you can operate on. Are you indicted or controlled for something? We have to decide you're guilty, not justice. And in order for justice, according to our wishes, we must have prejudiced the decision and we must also find judicial officers willing to make this decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u90	Mr. Voridis, finish it up. We're out of line.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u91	I shall conclude, Mr President. But how do we find these judiciaries? We must terrorize the judiciary. The attack on the media, the attack on justice in reality is the manifestation of the authoritarian state of SYRIZA. And as the authoritarian state of SYRIZA needs and disperses in authoritarianism, like all these regimes, what else does it do? He takes care of the emperor's entourage, his courtyard! And it also brings a nice amendment to make nice trips to good hotels, because the court must have a good time when authoritarianism is being built. We as a New Democracy send a message to the judges: don't be afraid. We're watching everything. Justice is and will remain independent and we will ensure its independence. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u92	Parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Incorporation, Mr Theocharopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today the draft law, which concerns the ratification of a Council of Europe Convention on cybercrime, on the criminalisation of acts of a racist and xenophobic nature, committed by computers, the transposition into Greek law of the directive on attacks against information systems, the arrangements of a penal and anti-crime policy. There is no doubt that this is a piece of legislation which, as we have said before, is imposed by the circumstances in cyberspace and the relevant new type of crime. It is now common knowledge that serious and profound changes in digitisation, convergence and continued globalisation of computers, which result in increasingly growing cybercrime and requires effective response to crime, can only be achieved through developed, rapid and well-approved international cooperation on criminal matters. We could therefore only be positive at the outset in this legislation. But at the same time, you have brought too many unnecessarily unreserved amendments to the draft law and I shall then speak specifically about some of them. As far as the special articles of the bill are concerned, I am not going to stay very much, because the rapporteur for the Democratic Incorporation, Mr Papatheodorou, analysed them in detail. I will only stay a little in Article 20, which is of importance and which has been analysed by several speakers before. Ladies and gentlemen, there has not been much time since SYRIZA was drinking for the irresistible members of the boards of directors of the TIAD. I would remind you of the expressions he described as: Scandal farm, etc. With this arrangement, extend the impunity to experts and members of the Board of Experts or other advisory bodies of the Hellenic Company of Participation and Property of the Overseas Retirement. Your position on such matters is that in these cases, acting in order to provide know-how to the decisive bodies, it is neither a matter of immunity nor a matter of dismissal of their responsibilities - from fraud or negligence - an opinion, for which there must be and be responsible. In the ‘black book of shame’ presented by SYRIZA in May 2014, which was relevant for the period 2012, 2013, 2014, the following features were mentioned. ‘Since its adoption, this law has undergone many changes, such as the provision of criminal immunity to the representatives of the companies under militarisation, but also to those who have been in the administration of the GOI, who have been legal representatives of the demobilised companies’. However, it was not only the TIADED and the irresistible members of the board of directors who then accused SYRIZA. In the "black book of shame" SYRIZA launched mysteries for the immunity of members of the Governing Council of the Executive Board and of the staff of the Financial Stability Fund. In May 2014, the Executive Board, the Executive Board and the staff of the Fund, included the provision of immunity to members of the Board, the Executive Board and the staff of the Fund. You also had a similar position in ministerial amendments in 2014, such as an internal one for 'electing Members of the European Parliament and other provisions', in which you said in 2014 that "with this amendment, every criminal prosecution for acts or omissions in the Special Professional Account has ceased. This is another proof of the intention not only of not punishing themselves but of not even controlling persons involved - or allegedly involved - in criminal offences or omissions concerning the management of public money." All these examples show, ladies and gentlemen, how deeply you were convinced of the inadmissibility of the impunity, so deeply, in fact, that you have forgotten it within a year and a half. That's the reality. Are you committed to the partners? In the troika? Are you committed? You say this: we are committed to lenders and we are changing our position and we have made a mistake at the time, when we made this criticism, because now we are doing exactly the same. But you couldn't have said it properly in 2014 and done it right now. You can't be right twice. This cannot be the credibility of words and works that characterise the way we operate. There is another issue, which in recent years has been stirring up, Minister, all of them. Until now, there has been no real and definitive solution to the problem. I refer to the question of interventions in justice. Honestly, I do not think it is particularly important to decommission responsibilities, ostrichism, on an issue that is the lyric of every favoured state. We all have to defend justice together, not to promote, or to comment on, the interventions in it. At some point a limit has to be introduced, because if this institutional catastrophe continues, it will not end and of course will not have any winners. We'll all be lost in this process. I would like to stress, as the rapporteur, Mr Potamou, and other parties, that we can no longer discuss a bill and the other articles and amendments which go beyond what we are discussing. In fact, some opposition parties have said that we will no longer vote against that logic. We need to see that. We cannot have a bill and all the other articles and provisions are more important and more substantial than the main part of the bills. And I'm not just talking about today's bill. I am referring to ordinary legislative practice over the last few years. It is something that needs to be stopped, because there cannot be any real debate on these issues, for example, on Article 20, which I told you before, to which has been mentioned by high-profile lawyers in this House and in the fight against it. The report of the Scientific Agency shall also be referred to in this respect. I would like to say to you that it is mentioned that the presumption in accordance with the proposed provision stems from the Court of Auditors' audit should be understood as a fighter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u94	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u95	We said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u96	As far as the amendments which come are concerned, they are six ministerialmen and we have just heard Minister Katrugalo say 'an amendment' to us and again 'an amendment is tabled'. We'll be out of here in two hours, and it's on the table. We're still in this time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u97	A speech on a non-existent amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u98	At the moment, quite rightly, we do not have the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u99	He didn't have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u100	I should like to stress that the amendment which the Prime Minister referred to yesterday at noon is the five elements. And I will comment: Since the Prime Minister mentioned it yesterday at noon, my question is why they were not tabled yesterday at noon so that a debate can be held? It was well known, it's not something we're learning now. Because that is what we have heard, the five specific changes. However, I should like to come to the bottom of these issues. We have heard the Minister - although I should normally not have spoken because there is not this amendment at the moment - Mr Katrugalo say, for example, that 40% to 70% of the CSCE losses are covered by this amendment. Let me remind you that a hundred and fifty-eight thousand beneficiaries have lost the CSCE and a total of four hundred thousand will lose it in the next two years. He told us, in other words, that with them, some 200 000 beneficiaries will not miss it. It's not true. Something's going on with the calculations. He told us that it was not the subject of the insurance reform and then said exactly that the result of the July negotiations was the abolition of the CSCE. But the insurance change that has been made - according to us, counter-reform - has been to find the 1.8 billion agreed in the July negotiations. In the July negotiations he told us that it was agreed that the CSCE should be abolished. It is therefore precisely the product of this change that Mr Katrugalos made to the insurance company. Of course it hadn't been announced. It was the change in July and August, where the opposition parties were again accused of agreeing to this. In other words, we had to say at the end that the country came out of the Eurozone, when a deal came to the end, involving dozens of things, many of which were not on paper. They specialize in the course, to tell the reality. And, of course, I do not know whether you have gone, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, during the September election with a view to abolishing the CSCE, which was agreed in July. I don't know. We did not hear it in the process of August and September. We therefore need more seriousness. At the moment, the CSCE is being abolished. It is a logic that you now have in front of. You have not found a way of making an insurance reform that we have proposed with certain difficult changes and all the other things we have heard from the Prime Minister yesterday in this particular matter and today by the Minister, they are short-sighted thoughts, as if you were going to extinguish a fire, the fire of the humanitarian crisis with a glass of water. That's actually it. Finally, Minister, on a point of your own, of course, the Ministry, today in the light of publicity and the forefront comes the postponement of the trial of the eight Turkish soldiers, who will go according to the papers - to inform us on 19 to 25 August. Then there's a secondary committee. This element first shows - firstly that what was heard by Turkey's official lips is not true for 15 days and all these issues. Of course we have told you at the first moment that our position is that there should be respect for international and national law in this process. And the statements by government officials, who were talking about an argument that was serious about the extradition, were wrong because of the situation in Turkey. That was it, and that's the situation. It also shows that you are being handled with care. We have made clear our position and we are concerned about developments in Turkey, because at the first time we said that the democratic deficits cannot be solved by the destruction of the democracy which was attempted on the night of 15 July, but by strengthening democracy. But this time too, we see deficits gigantic. That is the reality, and that is why we are concerned. In this context, then, at least in our country we need to be clear and we also need to have your own assurance that international and national law will be respected on this matter without doubt throughout the whole process from now on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u101	You have confused extradition and asylum.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u102	We don't have a request for extradition.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u103	An asylum application is another procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u104	I mean the asylum procedure. The asylum procedure will take place on 19-24 August.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u105	It's done on their own request.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u106	Yeah. In this process you understand that it could not be defined in fifteen days' time in addition to the results of the procedure, which will be done. That's what I told you! In short, we are talking today about a draft law, which deals with a directive, which is of course necessary. A lot of issues are necessarily discussed, as they are introduced. There is also an amendment tabled by the Minister without having tabled it at the moment. All these issues are very serious and, of course, we also need to see them and the Conference of Presidents, Mr President, so that they can be resolved and we can do the job, for which we have come here from the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, too. Mrs. Kozobol from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u108	It is clear that some in here are disturbed by the government's firm and firm attitude against the corruption front that has been opened. They are disturbed because with the Committee of Inquiry, the way in which hundreds of millions of loans were made to specific people in the media and mainly to the two parties, the Republic of New Democracy and the PASOK, the Greek taxpayer pays tens of millions of dollars to recapitalise the banks and make these sums "loan and unscrupulous". We know some people are bothering. Today we were told directly here. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the rapid development of Internet use and the widespread interconnection of information facilitate the committing of criminal offences in this area. In addition, the committing of crimes is facilitated in specific digital sites, in specific digital bases and structures, where sensitive data on health, defence and other sectors of activity are stored. Therefore, there is the need to deal with crime on the Internet and to protect information systems from attacks. This necessity is covered by the Council of Europe Convention on cybercrime and by the European Council Directive on attacks on information systems. So these acts are ratified by the current draft law and so relevant rules and sanctions are laid down in the case of their infringement and all this will be national law. In this way, a gap is paid and our legislation is in line with the legislation of the countries which have already ratified these acts. The provisions of the acts currently in force deal with crimes affecting confidentiality, integrity, data availability and computer systems, in particular forgery and computer fraud. Illegal access to computer systems, data interfering, program interference or digital data shall be addressed. This is a field of crime, where the internal legal order had a protection deficit to date. The second part of the draft is, in addition to this sanction, provisions and regulations of penal law - and here I will insist - a counter-criminal policy. It is stable for this government and the Minister of Justice to improve and modernise the penitentiary system, given that the system of penalties under Greek Criminal law is one of the strictest in Europe. This is also done given that the prisoner has been punished for his wrongful conduct with the maximum penalty, i.e. with the deprivation of his freedom, while retaining in full his other rights arising from his or her personality. Finally, on the common assumption that the sentence is co-administered with penitentiary and in order to carry out this penitentiary role, there is a need, in addition to other decent living of the detainees in the detention stores, to introduce provisions in this bill, under Articles 8, 9 and 15, in this direction. With these provisions, therefore, we have cases, which have been established in our criminal law in the past, of limitation on conditionality. Article 8 provides for the elimination of expulsion and the cessation of criminal prosecution for low-value acts, against which there is a prison sentence of up to two years or a penalty or both. Of course, there are also safeguard clauses for the application of these provisions, such as that a certain period has elapsed since the criminal offence has been committed and that the same act has not been completed again. It should be noted that behaviours involving victims of racist crimes are not included in these regulations. In accordance with the provisions of Article 9, the limitation of non-exposed and non-exposed penalties shall be allowed to lapse for up to six months. The provisions of Article 15 shall be extended until 27 April 2017 to the application of the arrangements laid down in Article 12 of the Treaty. Other information: (a) 4322/2015 including the exclusion of specific crimes. This last provision of conditional dismissal is based on the urgent need to dismantle detention stores, because, as I said before, there is no penalty for any prisoner playing its role in this way when one is on the other. Let's not close our eyes in front of this big problem. I wish the detention shops were such that they could perform their role and any corresponding conditional dismissal provisions do not depend on this element of the decongestion of detention stores. Today, however, there is a specific situation that neither our legal culture nor our legal system nor human rights rules allow us to ignore it. For all of this, which has been said about crime, which can be increased by the application of these provisions, the best answer is its application for more than a year in which we have not seen any increase in crime. Nothing was observed from this behaviour. I would like to make a positive reference to the provisions which exist for the School of Judges because they accumulate the experience of those taking part in the schools, as well as to the positive provision of Article 18, which simulates the third family with the multitude of recruitment in the public and private sectors, which is also required by the obsolete demographic problem. I should like to welcome - although it has not yet come, but it has already been announced - the legislation, the provisions relating to the relief of our fellow citizens from the reduction of the CSR until the pension has been recalculated and the new way has been made with national pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u110	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u111	Here you go, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u112	There's a matter pending.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u113	We know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u114	The amendments to which the Minister for Labour has referred since the Step of Parliament to supplement the CSCE so far have not been in our hands. And it is a pity because we rapporteurs at least do not have the right to understand them and to be able to comment on them in the second instance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u115	If they're gonna come, they're gonna come in in reasonable time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u116	Mr President, as far as I am concerned, the Legislation does not have any notice of these amendments. I'm talking about the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u117	Mr. Grego, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. A few days ago the President of Parliament accused the New Democracy in this Chamber of putting Golden Dawn in the House. Let us remember once again that on the Golden Dawn, the Greek people will keep putting it in Parliament and that you must all respect it. We, of course, can blame the New Democracy for putting SYRIZA in the House and it even brought him to power. I'm coming to the bill. However, I would like to make a fundamental point first, Minister. You know very well, we know as much as the world that some people in Greece are above the law. I think that is true and you have proved it too. I will ask you a question as to the collective arrangements concerning redundancies of convicted persons, even for felonies with a particularly inappropriate attitude, such as drug trafficking. I will recall here in this House the case of the dismissal of a drug dealer who was sentenced for five and a half tons of cocaine in June 2015. Just because of the legislation - I think yours - this man was fired. We will of course vote against this bill - ratification, because many articles are photographic about Golden Dawn and similar European parties. It is another attempt at a system of domestic and foreign to stop the voice of free people. It is another attempt to suffocate and terrorize at all levels, an attempt to target people, but above all ideas such as that of free expression. There is a targeting of people, organisations and anything else that fights national ideals and values. The oxymometer of the case is that this bill is supposed to be punished online crimes, but not all, but only those that are arbitrarily characterized as racist. But be careful here! Racically only at the expense of foreigners, if they do. In other words, if an Islamist organisation or a person turns against Greeks or other Europeans - it is a Community directive - that will not be persecuted. And of course, it does not apply now. It is also known that these organisations are moving through the Internet. It is known that most foreign crimes have a racist motive. Usually when they go in to kill, slaughter, rob, the phrase that follows their crime is "you will die dirty Greeks". We hear it in the streets too. These, of course, are not punished by the enforcing provision of anti-racist laws. We have said again that it applies only to Greeks. And of course we have said so many times that the only racism is against the Greeks. Another characteristic example, which demonstrates, in the case of such sanctions of contracts of law, that such sanctions are photographic, is the following. Other competitors have said so. There is on the Internet the Indymedia page, which constantly targets people, guides attacks on them, urges all kinds of violent action, organises criminal and terrorist acts and even welcomes these results. This particular website, Indymedia, enjoys support from all governments, because we always talk with evidence. Would you really dare to close this website? Of course not. We know where he's coming from, who's managers and what's behind all this. It is therefore clear that such bills - sanctions have specific objectives and, of course, serve specific purposes, which we all know about. We have also heard about justice from people who fight and offend this institution, but fortunately it has several worthy representatives. We will recall here who forgets the enormous blow that the institution of justice in the case of Golden Dawn, in the period of the Samara - Venizelos junta, when in the attempt to stop the rise of the Golden Dawn was blatantly violated every concept of human rights and freedoms, every right and even by judiciary officials, whose elements and roles are known to the Greeks, but they were also known abroad and in the family even, because we have also taken care of it, to inform the peoples of Europe and the Greeks about what had happened at that time in Greece. Of course we know that this whole disgusting system hopes that it will stop us by suffocation, persecution, imprisonment and murder. You are talking about decongestion of prisons, when prisons are full of foreigners, the people that New Democracy brought against Samara and SYRIZA continued later. The gangrene of multiculturalism and internationalism is threatening both Greece and Europe. According to EUROPOL, a thousand eight hundred fighters! the ISIS is currently in Europe. We told you, then and now. Terrorists are constantly coming and, indeed, very heavily armed in these boats. Their ages start from thirteen. There are so-called fighters - again in many introductory, pigs - of this Islamic state, who are thirteen, 14, fifteen, 16, very well trained in killing. On the free - supposedly - we cannot, of course, upload a picture of the House, on so-called Facebook, because it is considered racist, while any perverted beast, pedophile, for which of course the death penalty is worthy of it, can perpetuate on such pages. You remembered the third and demographics, the moment you filled the country with illegal immigrants and made a presumption of the third child. Our phones, of course, have been watching them for many years now. We knew that. And of course you didn't find anything. Some morbid minds of fascist perceptions think that with such synergies they will destroy every concept of law and achieve the dissolution of the nations. Fortunately the peoples of Europe have awakened and reacted to these evil plans. Everyone now knows and reacts. The poison of nationalism now has an antidote, that of proud and powerful nationalism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u119	Thank you. Mr Saridis, Parliamentary spokesman for the Union of Centres.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is the view that study of a country's laws undeniably reveals the quality of its culture and the strength of its economy. If that is true, if that is true, that is to say that we can draw safe conclusions on the situation in which we are in a society from what we are legislating, then I am sorry, but today we are revealing the extent of our weakness, while at the same time showing the real dimension of the political, economic and institutional crisis that our country is going through. Today, then, we are legislating sixteen years late, our country's first law on cybercrime. We move on to the direct questioning of the principle that legal persons in our country may not have criminal responsibilities, we leave micro-crimes free, as we legislate not to execute judgments, by declaring and archiving criminal acts, because they simply don't fit anyone else in prisons. We intervene directly and unequivocally in the antiquities of our judges, as only two months before the scheduled elections we change the rules of this procedure. We are legislating on the irresponsibleness of those who are asking for their opinion on very serious and critical issues to express an opinion on justice, which will judge the lives and fate of people, an opinion that will be expressed without possible consequences anymore. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a sad conclusion that comes out of the study of today's bill to be passed. The complex way and title cannot hide that in the first article we are ratifying an international convention, which was signed in 2001 in Budapest. The delay is prudence and is an argument for those who are rightly concerned that because the progress of technology in the same sixteen-year period has been ballistic, there is a risk of gaps. However, as it is a ratification of an international convention, we cannot change anything. Whether we dominate or not. As in our country we have not had relevant legislation so far and since ratification of the Budapest Convention is indeed a step forward for Greece, however late it may be, for these reasons the Central Association of Centres voted in favour of the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention as well as the Additional Protocol, as well as the transposition into Greek law of the relevant European directive of 2013. In view of the positive opinion of the ADAF, we are voting in favour of the third article in this report. We must, in turn, stand in the fourth article of the bill. The concerns expressed by everyone are justified and the Central Association shares them. Finally, do we recognise in Greece the criminal liability of legal persons? We must admit, however, that the Minister is also available for consent, as, after the reactions of all political groups, he has moved on to the change in Article 4, and in accordance with that, the President of the ADAC, instead of the Minister, decides the amount of administrative fines. These are sanctions and fines, however, which could in some cases also be termed exhaustive. The sense of responsibility is not established by this provision. Articles 5, 6 and 7 have a positive vote, as they concern the integration of the convention to be ratified, the Additional Protocol and the European Directive. The choice of the Electronic Crime Directorate as a point of contact for the implementation of Article 35 of the 'Net 24' Convention and of Article 13 of the European directive fills us with confidence, as this service has been distinguished for its effective work, gaining citizens' confidence. Unfortunately, there is also an end to the part of the bill, which has forced us to vote positive at first and to support, despite our reservations, Articles 1 to 7. Articles 8 and 9 are an insult to Greek justice. This is what we accept that we must dismantle the courts. My dear colleague, Mr Carras, knowing well of the results of the legalisation of the violation, which leads to continued and professional conduct, had the courage to propose to you the decriminalisation of these acts and the imposition of relevant administrative fines, which, in addition, have been shown to be even more effective. We are entitled to those who claim that there is no reason for them to respect Greek justice. We put the thought of creating private prisons. We have put it as a matter of concern and as a matter of discussion, as we are currently opening prisons, because there are no others in them because human rights are being violated within them. And I ask: are the human rights of the victims not violated by these two articles? We come out true, once again, those consciously choosing to be illegal. How will the consistent citizen feel today? What motive do we give in the contents of these two articles, which clearly show the very bad situation in which the Greek society is located? The rapporteur of the Association of Centres George Karras, who had a valuable experience of decades of distinguished presence in the Greek courts, spoke first and was positively welcomed by his proposal to decriminate these acts and impose administrative fines. That's how we realize what's going on. We therefore call for our proposal to be examined, because it is certain that what is being done today will be done again in the near future. And we support this assessment that this was the first time with Law 1240/1982, it continued with Law 3346/2005 and, of course, with Law 4403/2012. All these policies, in essence, demonstrate the lack of political will to resolve the question of penalism in Greece. They hurt, at the same time, the authority of Greek justice and the trust of the Greeks in it. We assure everyone, on the occasion of the case of the eight Turkish soldiers, that Greece is rule of law and that the Greek courts will judge their fate. We're rule of law when we open prisons because they don't fit anyone else? In Article 10, where issues of the National School of Judiciary are regulated, we have two observations to make. The pacifists from now on will be trained for two months instead of six, while Thessaloniki becomes the only city of their education. As an MEP, however, I must also in fact support it, as we welcome the fact that the Minister has accepted the Central Association's request not to change the rates of courses. Article 11 is very concerned. Instead of focusing on strengthening justice, the arguments of those who speak of interventions in justice are being asserted. In addition to the concerns that are already fuelling the suspicion that the executive may be violating the constitutional requirements of the supreme separation of powers, when intervening in the execution of judgments by circumventing and disqualifying the law of execution of sentences - because that is what it is doing with the provisions of Article 8 in conjunction with Article 15, which provides for the decongestion of prisons - there are now suspicions of interference in justice, as with Article 11, we are actually changing the way the judicial authorities have conducted two months before them, one month after July's promotions have been made. With regard to Article 12 and the procedure for legislating the Code of the Statute of the Courts and the Status of Judges and the Code of Judiciary, we agree. Article 13 and Article 17 are points of special interest and weight. What does the government plan for the future of our penitentiary system? On the one hand we move to ICM transfers in ICM posts - I am referring to paragraph (b) of Article 17 - and on the other hand we open the prisons. I am referring, of course, to Article 15. Do you understand, gentlemen of the government, that deportations do not work and mean practically nothing? Do you know who's gonna get out of prison? Article 15 is indicative of the real dissolution of the social fabric. On the other hand, Article 13 is the proof that the Greek state continues to ostracize. Are we going to solve the problem by turning an independent office into a General Secretariat? Who thinks that this decision will help with anything, except perhaps the wage support of a few? This is how social cohesion is eroded. Article 14, as one of the operators' representatives quite rightly said, does not solve and could not solve any problem. The Centro Association may not support Articles from 13 to 17. The provisions contained in Article 18 correct the injustices and fulfil a fixed claim. It is certainly a good start in trying to support the Greek family and those who choose to strengthen the human potential in the country by moving on to childbirth. As far as the rest of the articles are concerned, our rapporteur has actually been put on the table, and because there is no time, I will talk a little bit about the amendments and, in general, about the procedure, which we have again in this House today. The Minister, Mr Katrugalos, spoke of the universality of benefits and of dealing with fear. It seeks to keep this responsible attitude in support of an amendment which has not yet been tabled. What greater proof of the imperfection of parliamentary procedures exists? I have no further comment to make on this. You are bringing an amendment to the OAS for three hundred sixty jobs. There's a lot of questions coming up. However, it is certain that you once again despise Parliamentary legislative procedures and create conditions for transparency and lawlessness. You give food to those who speak of a “days.” We agree with Amendment 595, which deals with legal associations. We agree with Amendment 594, which is a regulation, in which it is possible to impose a temporary detention for perpetrators with a disability rate of more than 67%. In Amendment No 589 we look forward to it. There's an ambiguity. What does "paid position" mean? Many times, you know, the one-place title in itself means money. Academics, who are members of the administrations of the independent authorities, may also teach in parallel with the performance of their duties. Participation in the independent authorities must be full-time for us in the Central Association, not part-time. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a sad day for Greek justice. Nor do we legislate properly, nor do we legislate on the common good. The last refuge for every citizen in the favoured states and societies is the courts, judges and blind justice. Today we are frustrating those who are struggling for strengthening, institutional and justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, too. Mr Georgiotis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today justice is in fact being helped in its work with this piece of legislation and headed for spotlights, which highlight specific cases of criminal justice in a way that is unfair, in my view. I will focus on my position on Article 8, Article 9 and Article 15 as a servant of criminal justice, through the status of lawyer. The argument that some of these arrangements have been re-implemented is not an argument which can be heard monotonously. Firstly, they did not apply exactly to the tension and the way they come to Parliament today. Secondly, previous applications should have been assessed and evaluated, in relation to the results they have produced, to see if there is really reason to regain these arrangements. The results, especially in the case of detainees, should have two parameters. One is in relation to the final for how long the problem of the congestion of prisoners has been solved in Greek prisons. The second, which would also be of great importance, is how many of them who have received the benefits of previous regulations and were released, have committed themselves to other offences or not. So I think that these evaluations, which should have been made by the Ministry, should have been here and if we see that there really is a positive sign, then yes, we should have seen for the last time this arrangement. However, I have to agree that we had to have a more comprehensive, broader debate, as Maki Vorides mentioned, in relation to perhaps the need to decriminate some crimes, administrative penalties for some of them, because it is certainly not a good example of our legal culture to come in two or three years and lead to such arrangements for decongestion of prisons. I shall refer to the three issues that go into three regulations. I will talk about Article 8, Minister, which eliminates criminal offences, offences that threaten to be punished for up to two years. It's a lot of two years, Minister. There has never been such an arrangement. There are a lot of offences involved in this charge. Of course, once again there is no thought at all, and the position of the defendant is not taken into account at all. There are some offences that are self-prosecuting and some who have moved forward and are matured after calls. Think of the messenger who, waiting for two or three years for his case to be dealt with, has filed a paradox, which is necessary to enforce the indictment, who has often asked for legal assistance, learns three years later that the case he had indicted will never be tried. It's a first issue. To go to Article 9, where there is a corresponding issue on the other side, on the part of the defendant. To a accused or rather sentenced to a prison sentence of up to six months, who has appealed and wants to a second degree to try to achieve his acquittal, both for substantial and moral reasons, how do we deprive him of that right? How do we deprive anyone, who was initially condemned, of being able to deal with a second point? Should there not be a provision that in Article 9, when the convicted person wishes, will this provision not be used to archiving the case? But where I think that things are absolutely tragic and embarrassing for Parliament is in Article 15. In Article 15 there are two parameters which do not exist in the previous Articles. The first is that there is no exception, no assessment of the gravity of the offence with which someone is in prison. None! While there are exceptions in Articles 8 and 9, there is only time imposed as imprisonment or imprisonment. And even worse is that while in the previous two articles the start of law enforcement and essentially the rightholders are mentioned at previous time, either in March 2016 (in the case of Article 8) or on the day of publication of the law (in the case of Article 9), in Article 15 the time to which the conditions must be met is April 2017, so that some prisoners, who are in any way in the case of the creation of the sentence rather than the actual creation of the sentence, can make the conditions necessary for them to be released in that time. I do not think that can be accepted by Parliament. Even if you insist on this arrangement, Minister, the time of application should have something to do with the day the law was published. We cannot put forward a future time and the conditions for the prisoner to be able to be set up at the initiative of the prisoner, to create the conditions for the creation of the sentence - which, I repeat, is not the actual time of assessment in the first two cases, but, in any case, to be able to fulfil these conditions. I think that all three issues are very serious, because in addition to all others, the relationship of confidence is one that must exist between the citizen and justice and the procedure of criminal justice in general. Of course, I also have to say another one that we have seen for the first time today. We thought we'd seen everything, but we haven't seen everything. We have seen the Minister put from Parliament's Step for amendment, which has not even been tabled. It is great that the government’s warming is really alleviating the pain of those who have been deprived of incomes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. But that is what we are coming to analyse and discuss in legislative initiatives that have not even entered the House, I think it shows exactly the way in which you are finally dealing with the parliamentary procedure. Mr. Katrugalos today was once again out of the question. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr Georgioda. Mr. Psychogios has the floor. Today lawyers have their honor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law by the Ministry of Justice follows on from other legislative interventions which defend individual and social rights, while at the same time implementing part of the parallel programme that this government has said will do. In particular, legislative initiatives on citizenship and the cohabitation pact go on every day and give solutions to people who use them and the decongestion of prisons at the first level of the legislative initiative and the abolition of Type III prisons give the mark of the Left Government. We also have the vote on the legal aid bill which is now expanding - which is very important - and also on reducing and abolishing fees and judicial documents, but also on reorganising mortgages. This bill ratifys the Council of Europe Convention on cybercrime, as well as its first additional protocol on criminalisation of acts of racist nature by means of computer systems. At the same time, other provisions are proposed in relation to matters of competence of the Ministry of Justice. Because of the criticality and the diversity of the regulations contained in this draft law, I think this is a legislation that is important - especially for us dealing with the area of justice, as you have mentioned, Mr President - which is coming to complement and further strengthen the general policy of the Ministry, a policy that has as its main focus the modernisation and democratisation of the justice system, always in line with the European acquis and human rights. In particular, with regard to cybercrime, the amendment of legislation is now necessary for obvious reasons. The extensive use of the internet and computer systems in general has given birth to new phenomena and new variants of crimes through cyberspace. In this sense, the Council of Europe has already held the 185 Convention in 2001 and in 2003 its first additional protocol, precisely to deal with such phenomena. One of the most important articles of this convention is the provision of Article ninth, which provides for criminal offences of child pornography, by establishing a broad and comprehensive scope and protection, which, as the special speaker of the Communist Party mentioned, is bound to the existing legislative framework, which is obviously to supplement or coexist with the law of the Convention. The other articles of the Convention are also punished for offences concerning illegal access to data and systems, as well as intercepting or creating or proliferating viruses, etc. Crimes against intellectual property rights are still being dealt with. Another important aspect of the Convention is the provisions to improve the Member States' ability to carry out research networks in real time, while ensuring respect for fundamental rights in accordance with the ECHR's requirements. I would like at this point to dwell on the provisions of the Council of Europe's first additional protocol on criminalisation of acts of a xenophobic and racist nature, which are absolutely essential if we consider racist publications, statements, verbal attacks, which are very often on the Internet and social media, so-called social media. Greece, however, has recently turned its back on xenophobic prejudices and stereotypes. This change, of course, is not at all the result of a general anti-racist policy implemented by the left-wing ministries over the last one and a half years, especially the Ministry of Justice, through a package of provisions and initiatives aimed at combating racism. I have referred in detail to them in the committee responsible and, above all, to the deepening of anti-racist law and, of course, to the bachelor for land workers without papers coming from third countries. More generally, we note that all politics and philosophy of the government strengthens tolerance to diversity and respect for human rights. This protocol, therefore, comes to complement as I have said and further defend this logic and culture. Pursuant to Article 1 of the Protocol, not only the criminalisation of these behaviours, but also the imposition of the necessary measures by the Contracting States, as well as the continued care for their proper implementation, i.e. their follow-up. In Article 2 of the Protocol, it is defined as racist material of any kind, material, images and any kind of development of ideas or theories in a form that allows them to be stored, processed or transmitted through a computer. Despite the positive direction of the provisions, we should not overlook the fact that in some cases they conflict with the right to free, public expression of ideas. In other words, these control and containment measures are conflicting with Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights. However, in such cases the Court of Justice of Strasbourg has established a well-established case-law, according to which freedom of expression may be restricted when specific criteria are applied. Therefore, in applying the provisions of the Protocol, the Greek authorities should take these principles into account and act accordingly. Leaving from the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention, I would like to focus on two of the other provisions of this bill, which I consider to be of major importance. Article 15 introduces an extension of the arrangements of Law No.4322/2015 on decongestion of prisons. In particular, certain provisions on release until 27 April 2017 are extended. This is an extension, which will help further decongested and better living conditions in Greek prisons for both penitentiaries and prisoners. Besides, the change in prison conditions after Law4322 has also been observed by the Committee against Torture - CPT - in its latest visits to Greece. Of course, we must note here that a comprehensive and structured intervention is needed on the question of prisons, as was done in Diavata, as is the case with the improvement of conditions at the hospital in Korydallos. We also need to achieve better staffing. In addition, Article 18 of this draft law provides for a very important provision for third parties. They are now subject to the protected persons of Law 2643/1998 concerning the care of employees of special categories such as large-scale, small-sized and medium-sized enterprises. This support is dictated both by the country's important demographic problem and by the social policy that this government wants to develop. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be out in a minute, Mr. President. The rights of vulnerable groups are - and must be - a priority for this government. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the previous bills I mentioned, but also the ones that will come, are our agenda. These priorities we have, these changes are visible and we are fighting for this society, knowing very well about the difficulties it is going through and the mistakes we have made. Anything else, however, in terms of rights and harmonisation with European law is in the past and will fortunately remain there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, too. Mrs Stuboulis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of his appearance the cyberspace has been welcomed as an area of freedom of expression, free and unlimited movement of ideas and information. In addition to the above, it was not long before it became an area of facilitation of crimes and even cross-border crimes, as crime with a view to cyberspace and the services that are massively provided by it did not appear too late. Once again, state entities based on the principle of territoriality were behind crime and their legislation had to be properly adapted. This needs to be answered by the Council of Europe Convention that we are currently dominating, firstly, the possibility of investigating and collecting data from judicial and police authorities in real time before they disappear, which is relatively easy and directly aimed at perpetrators of Internet crime. This allows for urgent action to prevent the disappearance of data, including actions to maintain them by providers, in order to identify the route through which the criminal communication was carried out, but the continuous and secret monitoring of the networks is not permitted. It is also facilitated by judicial assistance and provides for a network of contact points that operate 24/7 throughout the week. The exchange of personal data shall be protected. Cross-border access to data without the legal assistance procedure may be granted where the data are available to the public or have been provided voluntarily with the consent of the person having the legal right to their disposal. A number of articles are identified as criminal acts, actions aimed at damaging the networks, illegal access, interfering with data, interference with systems, as well as building, holding and disposing of "tapes", "worms" and "terrestrial horses", i.e. catastrophic programmes. Other provisions on child pornography criminalise, among other things, the appearance of adults on the Internet as minors, and there are provisions on copyright protection. The Additional Protocol criminalises the movement in the cyberspace of racist and xenophobic materials and encourage xenophobic and racist acts. It is not contrary to the provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights which guarantee freedom of expression, with the same reasoning that the Court of Justice of Strasbourg accepts the imposition of necessary restrictions on this right when it requires the defence of national security and territorial integrity, public order and security, the protection of morality, reputation or rights of third parties. I was not going to go into the other provisions concerning the Ministry of Justice. What I said in my position in committee is true. However, I am impressed by the insistence of the Opposition on the invoking, interfering, of measures to demolition of prisons, the cessation of persecution for not significant offences, or the suspension of the execution of sentences for such offences. You're talking - and you're not listening - about fear of society, about increasing crime, gentlemen of counter-population. The first is self - astonishing prophecy. Say, say we're in danger, some more and more will be afraid. But the second is a measurable size. Do you have any evidence? Can you give numbers? What increase in crime has been observed in recent months? What percentages? What crimes? Can you enlighten us? Otherwise, stop picturing - in the simplistic Greek - and let the government take all the necessary steps to stop our penitentiary system, rather than just consecrate it. Torment in the name of a justice that sometimes gives the impression that only blind is not, when sharing life as a tunnels to poorly devils, Ilia Carelli. We are the country with multiple numbers of isovictims from the European average, as are the country with the multiple number of criminal organisations from the European average. Almost never does this justice catch up with the christmas scholars before they get away from her. He shares hundreds of centurions, ten years of head, for every unfortunate man on the boat, to the poor young man who first jumped out to pull her on land, because he is called a driver by the prosecution authorities, even a minor. And there's a two-digit double-digit number of sentences in our prisons, and the three-digit is close. No one has the right to stigmatize and demonize some people when they are given the opportunity to be reinstated in society, not by charismatic photographic provisions, but by regulations that satisfy the public's feeling of law, such as those we are voting on today's bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u127	Now, Mr Pafile, Mr Kegeroglu will take the floor, because he must also go to the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u128	At 3 p.m. there is a conference, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u129	By 15:00, Mr. Kegeroglu will be finished.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u130	Find them with the government. So, how's it going to be? We're waiting for Mr. Katrugalo to come. He's going to testify to her?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u131	What can we do? Don't lose now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u132	How is it going to happen now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u133	You'll talk right after. We're wasting time and Mr. Kegeroglu will go to the conference. He's asked for the floor. What can we do? Come on, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for seven minutes. No more, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u134	We would have said half now, Mr President. I agree with everything that has been said by previous speakers about the poor legalisation procedure that we have finally established. And when I say we have established, I mean the government, which, usually using European directives, introduces a bill and a few, fifteen regulations, where, apart from some of those which are highly sceptical and actually imported at the last minute and which make bam, we also have regulations which could be better if they came under the normal procedure provided for by the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and the Constitution. The Constitution is being violated directly. And I'd say at least in the Justice Department bills it's ridiculous to have such a procedure. I wonder how the Minister accepts it. Yesterday two adjustments came in at the last minute. On the one hand, fines are paid to majestics, extending space for receivers of virtual invoices to be able to settle their jobs. And of course the end that came at the last minute is about the multiplier sequences of the Prime Minister, the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, as if so far there had been no provision for all the Prime Ministers what had to be done to compensate them. And at the same time, the valuers of ELGA are sending them by bus. And we have seventy-four thousand uncontrolled ELGA cases. Shame on that government! With Article 15, you tell us that those who are serving one third of the sentence are fired and have felonies. And you say, "Okay, we'll take out the filth." It's said. I don't know if it's going to happen. You're gonna take out the rapists, the pedophiles, and I don't know who else. So, the other felony actions are all right? I don't understand. Why do you do so in the work of justice? Why are you interfering backwards? In fact, you say, "until August 17th, Mr. Judges, they are in the air. Whatever penalties you may put in." Here is the good Paradise and the good parliamentary majority that will get them out in five years." So send a note better and say, "Don't put more than five years on the felonies because you're making a fool of yourself, Judges." But who's being ridiculed? Judges or justice? So if we didn't have a professor at the Ministry and there was another man, what kind of behavior would we have? Who are the guardians? Is that what you teach at the university? It's disgraceful! Article 20: Enter full discharge from all civil and criminal liability not only for the administrations of the supranational government but also for the rapporteurs, for opinions and such things, at the same time as in the "black book" you have brought us what had been done about the HSED and I don't know what else. We must, of course, see how we can protect these people. If that protection were reasoned, it was about administrations, but about specific decisions, yes, to accept it. But it can't be in white. In white crime beforehand, can we call them innocent? No, gentlemen. We have a provision for the transfers that are provided for. We are not opposed to the development of public officials and of course penitentiaries, but on certain conditions. First of all, take staff to replace those who leave. Before. And secondly, they must be made by the service councils and not by a Minister's decision. In conclusion, I would like to say that today this story continues with the procedure that the Minister came to us and spoke to us about an unexistent amendment. It's okay. Ideas he said. But why the last minute? Maybe it can be improved. Can this be done in the last five minutes? I say that it will not be accepted, even if the amendment comes now. Even if he comes, he won't be accepted. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u135	So do we. Mr. Paphie, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u136	It's not our fault for the stirring. We've seen everything here. However, we have not seen this coming, namely, to argue on an amendment that has not even been tabled and does not know that it has not been tabled? They say a proverb in my village: “From the rush the bitch makes the puppies go wrong.” It's in nature. So I say we wait. We don't know after all. Is there anyone who knows either the Bureau, or the Minister, whether it will be tabled, when and in what procedures is the notorious amendment of the Ministry of Labour? Can anyone tell us why we have a Conference of Presidents? We need to know what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u137	Do we not continue now to catch up with the Conference of Presidents?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u138	But I'm asking a simple question. Does anyone know? He doesn't know. It's okay. I'll start with the directive. Ladies and gentlemen, I have said from this Step - and we will keep saying it - that when the European Union directives come, you are all voting together. And you're making a regional war in isolation. These are the strategies.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u139	Because we are with the European Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u140	You will hear them, Mr Javarra, you who are defending them. There are no differences there. And what is the point of this cyber-policy directive? He has a very innocent title. "Publication of racist and xenophobic nature..." etc., crimes. Is that the directive? Is that her? Who are you kidding?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u141	It's an additional protocol.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u142	Wait. The Protocol of the Council of Europe. We know that, Mr. Javarra. We've done five years at the "treaty". Is that the question? So the essence of this European directive is to protect against racism, xenophobia and everything else? In our opinion, no. These are protected by national legislation and by all national legislation, hypocritically, because these are the births of the system itself. And racism and xenophobia have given birth to the capitalist system itself since it exists. Others are those who have the theory that people are divided into those who exploit others and those who are exploited, independent of sex, religion, etc. That may be what fascists say today, but they are inherent in the system itself. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] And since we're talking about it, and maybe it's hard, I'll talk very hard. What are you waiting for, really, and you're surprised by child pornography and everything else, when in a system everything is merchandise, sold and purchased? What's going on in Thailand? What is going on in these countries here? Everywhere everything sold and purchased is within the system, it is the philosophy of the system itself. Who's trading organs? Who's doing the transplants? Which clinics in the world are those who buy kidneys, livers, and all the rest of them, or are they already murdering? To be able to meet the needs of whom? The workers who can't pay anything? These phenomena, for which some come out of their clothes when they are heard and made also drones and prosecutors, come precisely from commercialisation first of all of the labour force and of all the rest that are sold and purchased. Yes or no? So it's all hypocritical. At times, of course, when other interests are served, racism and other things may be hit. It also says that it will protect human rights. Really, what are human rights? Isn't the right to work a human right? It's the right to life, isn't it? How many people are murdered every day by the politicians of the capitalist system. How many murders either with guns or with hunger, poverty, misery? Millions. They don't have the right? What's wrong with them? What are human rights? Just private life and everything else, which are human rights too? It is therefore hypocrisy and all this reasoning of the European Union and the system, for justice, equality, human rights, when one dies in hunger and the other is ruining in one night what one worker wants all his life again is little. Of course, it says 'there are new problems'. Of course there are new problems with technological advancement and everything else. It says "to protect the internet from worms, viruses and everything else". Really? Who's making all this? Just a few freers? Don't they produce them in states? There is no war, a tough war between countries. Our rapporteur has said a lot about them and about Iran and about what is happening. So from the protectors, who will protect us, where does the song say? Because he says he's not allowed to produce, develop, possess viruses and all. But, officially, the United States of America, Russia, Germany, everyone who does not have services, do not have the best scientists, do not recruit them and pay them incapable of producing and helping in the cyber-war between states, which is a modern war and too dangerous? They don't have such goals. And I'm closing in first place. And we're not licking our fingers, anyone who realizes or who hides behind an abstract and abstract view and cyberspace as a whole. They aim first of all at NATO, the European Union, other imperialist organisations, to shield their sovereignty as much as they can - because it is not possible, there are other opponents, and they are smart, and they produce - so that, as NATO has an aggressive policy, they can do the same on cyberspace issues. Secondly, they aim to shield business groups. And when they say about protection systems, who produces these? How many billions will the various companies get? And what is the tragedy and contradiction of the system? Those who produce security systems, high technology, get 400 euros, 700 euros a month, and those who sell them earn billions. Others produce wealth - they are children of two, three, four degrees - and those who get won are the business groups, who are, of course, trying to fight each other's competition, or even all together, to create a system of protection. Third is policing. It is essentially the abolition of the confidentiality of communications. With the measures taken here, the presumption of innocence, Mr Javarra, is abolished in practice by the European Union you are defending. Since you're a suspect, I'm opening your mail in no time, and I'm not asking you. I also have task force, rapid intervention forces. They're in twenty-five places, they're interfering directly. All this in the name of terrorism. But if they wanted, in the name of terrorism, to hit those called terrorists and who themselves produce and guide them many times - and this has been proven - they could do too much. They just want and aim to create such a framework to control the popular movement. I wanted to say two things before I went to the amendment. We hear reasons here - Mr Voridis protagonists and many others - about independence of justice, sacred and loyal! Really, is justice independent? Let's see how independent it is? Firstly, what laws is it called upon to implement? The laws that say that on one night I'm cutting your pension and I don't account to anyone. The laws that say I'm subsidising you from the one I'm cutting the pension. So it's not independent. It is dependent on the same anti-grassroots framework of the system itself. Can he go against these laws? There are bright exceptions, but judges who cannot, because they go to disciplinary proceedings. It is therefore fully dependent on applying the laws of a barbaric social system. And I'll go to the next one. Why are you all on the tiles? Who appoints the leadership of justice? They're electing her? Is there any larger body, as we suggest? Oh, no. Governments elect it. You, the New Democracy, the PASOK, when you were government, didn't you? Isn't SYRIZA and ANEL doing the same today? So, what independence are we talking about? You are even getting out of your clothes for the changes. And you guys did the same thing, didn't you? Didn't you appoint prosecutors, Ice Arrow Presidents, everything on the pretext and fig sheet of the House Committee, where the government majority can do whatever it wants, and that's how it always happens? Thirdly, how independent it is when - if I am not mistaken - since 2009 only two strikes have emerged legally. All the others were out in advance of illegality.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u143	It was illegal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u144	Was it illegal? Who judges that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u145	Justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u146	The independent?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u147	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u148	With the government's orders and all these laws? How's it going? Are all the employees stupid? Don't they keep the law? All illegal strikes do? Don't they have any rights? Here at the office of Piraeus, they did not have time to announce it and took it out illegal. Before they could see. I'm not saying it's all the judges' fault. There are many exceptions and they also live under a specific regime. This is where workers were accused, because they accused the employer of taking advantage of them. Criminalization even of thought! Before that happened, not now. This is where the D.A.'s ordering the police and the police and the MATs are at the service of the employer. Incredible things! The Greek people pay to be beaten in the final analysis. And you're telling us about independence? Are there no scandals, as they call them? No circuits, no circuits? We don't do Sherlock Holmes. This is where monsters and signs came out in the light of publicity. And in the light of publicity monsters and signs come out. So now you're all talking about independence and confrontation? Finally, for a minute, I have to speak because the Minister has also spoken. Maybe it's out of the question, but I don't think it is. Yesterday we heard the Prime Minister talk about the creation of a new social state. Mercy! These are really incredible things. Have a policy that breaks down, breaks down workers, cuts wages, pensions, makes them work at 100 euros, with 200 euros, with 300 euros, with carpets, ENPIA, taxes, rugs everywhere, that is the situation today - and say about a new social state? With what? With crumbs and propaganda scams? Burnt land, classic theory. Really, Lords of the Government, and the rest of you who did it all the previous years, burnt earth, have you received it? Then why do you give so many billions of subsidies to big capital? The ones you find? Why do you keep cutting from the workers? Is there no money? How far did it go abroad? Over 200 billion. What was that? Founder of the Greek people. Are you getting them? How much did you have to pay them now? Don't tell me one billion -- if it's so much of a Lagard list, because that's too little. So what social policy are you talking about? For some there's the cutter every day - to say it again - and for others there's the donor. It says, now - and these are incredible things - 'we have protected pensions'. That's what he announced yesterday. I read and you tell me about SYRIZA's math. ‘Until 2019 by pensioners and insured persons will be deducted of 8,234 billion. The report of the General Accounting Office says that losses will be for pensioners of 6,016 billion and 2,218 until 2019, new charges of the current insured persons." Is that what you're saying you're saving? Who's gonna pay for this? We're talking close to 11 billion or should we go lower and you have the nerve and you say we have protected wages and pensions? They also announced this with the CSCE. It's deception. With the NSA, I get you a five-and-a-half in your pocket, and I give you a ten, and you have to tell me and thank you. That is, to make it simple for people to understand what we are saying, beyond what is said. In 2018 will the CSCE be cut, yes or no? It'll be cut. You say so? You're not saying that. The previous ones started it, and you're continuing it. 10% exemption on medical expenses. Is that right? Only in prescribing. In other words, it doesn't exist. May I tell you what the ridiculous case is? This whole story you've been trying to cash it off with a card, which isn't worth it, 45-50 euros, to go shopping, like they're begging, as if they haven't worked all these years, as if they haven't produced all the wealth that others are stealing. We say that this is disgraceful and mocking and is reasonable beggar. And don't tell me now that we've received burnt land because you've answered the previous ones. I have not seen either burnt shipowners nor burnt industrialists - which are just as large as they are - nor burnt big merchants nor anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u149	Thank you. I have the honour to inform the House that the intergroup parliamentary committee 'to claim German debts' is tabling its report, in accordance with Rule 45(2) of the Rules of Procedure. [[The above mentioned report, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice, is presented here.]] Mr Papachristopoulos has the floor for twelve minutes and then Mrs Theleritis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. I'm going to get a little out of this, because it's fresh now Thanasis Paphie's speech, which for me is a very respectable colleague. I want to make two comments on what he said. I, too, believe that a lot of what he said is right, with a difference that the complaining speech, when it is not accompanied by a documented proposal, may not accept it - is amphitheater in a period of study. I agree with the findings. I just think you're sitting in there fighting. On the one hand, it is not possible to do everything. A lot of what Thanasis Paphilis said is right. We have a difference in their way of dealing with them. I, for example, believe that now that extreme right-wing movements and acts of terrorism like mushrooms are flying every day, almost fashioned, the great boredom has a name and is called a social state. I believe that this government has understood it and is fighting it. It's not about emotional, it's about moral order here. It's a matter of substance. It is very important that people who are on the sidelines, because they have no money, because they have no work, because, at least, someone thinks about them and I want to believe that the government is making moves in this direction. I want to come to my point. I have another way to deal with today's bill. I have heard many reservations, criticisms of the amendments. But I want to say something. A hundred years ago, when it was the industrial revolution, when the first factories were built, the working class - for whoever remembers - entered the factories and destroyed the machinery. Terror had caught the world, that they'd lose their jobs. They were the well-known flowermen, an incredible attitude from people, not illegal, very honest, workers, who thought something would be lost. The second revolution, which is cyberspace, even greater historical revolution in humanity, is in her infant age. I mean, whatever we say, it's still not understood what exactly online, computer, mobile phone, cyberspace in general. When Vide Sheriff joined Maryland the six bulky computers, some people took him to the finest. When our guy, Nick Negrepode, along with Michael Dertuzo, had a revolution in the MIT and defined a public character on the internet, which nobody yet understood what it was, and when Tim Burners Lee, the Swiss, made available the internet to "web" and in the most extreme area of Lapland, some had no understanding. Even today there is a risk. Indeed, everything that is born has its side effects. It's a fact. The late George Koumantos wrote dozens of articles on internet morality. He yelled, screamed, daily write, rewrite. A new era has been born, the one that has really given another tone and another to global society. Many haven't adapted. These side effects are correct. I think it is a little late to adapt to the new data, and I am absolutely certain that it will not solve all the problems, Minister. There is an effort to be honest with the European Union. I don't want to talk about child pornography either now, how they steal online bills, what things are moving, what happens, the bullying that goes and goes by saying. That's all right. But I think they will be overtaken sooner or later. I am one of them - I may be disproved - that I believe the Internet will give solutions at a global level at some point. That's what I think. It doesn't mean I'm right, I might be wrong. The adaptation, therefore, to this directive of the European Union for me has come a little late in our country, but it is never too late. It is up to us to see it positively, and I believe that all parties will see it positively and improve it. But alas, if we function like the flower and we look only at the cyber-negatives, which has too much. We'll be behind the facts. A large part of the youth, which some people very easily despise, has understood much more than we do and it is wrong here to say that a seventeen-year-old is not mature. Indeed, it has imperfections, it has uncertainties, and so on, but I believe that it has come stronger than us. There's a generation gap. I feel it to myself. Sometimes I feel like I'm left behind by children who are nineteen or twenty years old, and I'm running to reach their thoughts. It is not wrong to admit that and to see what perspective this adjustment gives, which is very important to me. Of course, it does not solve all the problems, I believe that we will sooner or later adjust, that is, a larger part of citizens will be adapted. And it's no coincidence that elderly people can't, it's outside of this new reality. That is why there is special legislation for some people over seventy-five years. I don't want more time, Mr. President. I think it is not worth it to face a historical revolutionary reality with micropsy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u151	Thank you Mr Papachristopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks. Mrs. Wellerite, SYRIZA Parliamentary, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u152	Although, as the last speaker, I think, I will reinstate the debate in this bill after the parliamentary representatives, and I would like to stress that its importance is extremely topical and will have a substantial and positive impact on public life and the daily lives of our citizens on the Internet and on the public and on the private level. I would like to begin by mentioning what the objectives of this bill are, and here I would like to mention that given that the networks and information systems are more vulnerable in our days to threats and damages and due to the use of the Internet - which may have a negative impact on the functioning of state structures and private enterprises, it is possible to influence the lives of citizens - the main objective of this bill is to criminalise behaviour within the field of cybercrime, ensuring security, the smooth functioning of networks and information systems. What exactly is this bill doing? Firstly, criminal protection against child pornography. It has already been mentioned and specifically referred to in Article 9, what is covered in this regard. I won't repeat it. Secondly, crimes are being committed regarding violations of copyright, since they are committed for commercial purposes and are intended to achieve a profit. Thirdly, provisions are amended to remove confidentiality so that the law includes all the relevant crimes for which, because of their nature, it is difficult to make sure that they are executed and to identify those responsible. At the same time, administrative penalties shall be laid down in the form of a penalty for revocation or suspension of authorisation and exclusion from public benefits, with a view to effective punishment, when criminal offences are committed by legal persons. Ladies and gentlemen, the Council of Europe Convention on cybercrime is a pioneering text which seeks to establish rules of law aimed at dealing with cybercrime on the Internet and the obligation to impose appropriate criminal sanctions for the collapsing of the relevant crimes. It is, however, a pioneering text, because not only is it dealing with cybercrime in the narrow sense of the term, but it also applies to criminal offences whose repression requires the collection of evidence of an electronic nature. What, though, are the consequences of this bill? It is clear that the impact of this draft law is expected to be positive, because it tackles the crimes committed via the Internet and is directed against information systems and will be positive for both the public administration and the administration of justice. They are also facilitated by the competent authorities to identify the perpetrators, to collect evidence of unlawful action. At the same time, it strengthens the security of communication, trade, the general use of the Internet, with multiple benefits for society, ensuring the protection of information systems and, of course, the uninterrupted service of citizens and the functioning of state structures. A special mention should also be made of the additional protocol of the Council of Europe, which is, we would say, a necessary complement to the Convention on cybercrime, extends the scope of the Convention and makes it more specific, through the definition, what is racist and what is xenophobic material, for all types of material, for images, for all types of development of ideas and theories of a racist or xenophobic nature. Here too, Mr Psychogios referred to the problem that exists under Article 10 of the European Convention and how this goes beyond the scope of the Court of Justice's case-law, in which the restriction of freedoms is governed by specific rules and conditions, with a view, first, to ensuring the exercise of freedom and, second, to ensuring respect for the personality, dignity of the rights of other people. Before I finish my suggestion, I would also like to refer to a dimension that I hope will be incorporated into this law in the immediate future, in order to respond to the existing institutional framework as effectively as possible and to prevent and punish new forms of cybercrime. This is the gender dimension, namely gender-based violence and the need for cybercrime and racist and xenophobic actions on the Internet, where they need to include new forms of violence against women and girls, given that cyber violence by women and girls is a systemic social challenge in the emerging field of racial violence, i.e. 73% of women using the Internet in one way or another has suffered or exposed to some form of cyber violence. These are according to the data provided by UNESCO from a recent record. Furthermore, according to the pan-European survey on violence against women of the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights, carried out in 2014, with personal interviews of forty-two thousand women in the twenty-eight Member States, sexual harassment against women can be carried out by various categories of offenders and include the use of new technologies. One out of ten women has received inappropriate proposals on social networking sites or unwanted e-mails. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. These forms of sexual harassment particularly affect younger women. Greece and the Member States of the European Union must therefore review their existing legislation and policies to address sexual harassment, recognising that it can occur in various environments through different means, such as the Internet or mobile phones. Therefore, it will be possible for our legislation to include new and recently recognised forms of violence against women, such as harassment, abuse through new technologies, aspects of violence rarely reported by women both in police and in organisations against victims of violence. I would therefore like to close my speech with reference to the last positions of the parliamentary representatives. I would like to stress the following: that the social programme announced yesterday by the Prime Minister and by the Minister in relation to the immediate measures to alleviate the losses from the cuts in the EPC, I think that it does not prejudice the accusations that have been made at times in Parliament about the lies that SYRIZA is constantly saying. To date, efforts by the government to find compensatory measures have not been made to alleviate the losses suffered by a large category of population by the government because of the agreements. Therefore, we are not talking about lies, but about the efforts made by this government, so that they can be offset against the measures that have been voted on. A number of groups are indeed affected, particularly the vulnerable groups, and in particular a large category such as pensioners with the ESS. So it is not a lie, it is the efforts that are achieved by this government, and as much as they are unraveling, they are ultimately attempting in any way to come and vote in the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mrs. Thleritis, SYRIZA Parliament. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mrs Kerameo, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u154	Mr President, can I speak for two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u155	Yes, if Mrs. Keramea allows.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u156	Of course, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u157	Mr. Voridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u158	Mr President, I would like to make a special point in the form of dentistry. Mr President, I have just tabled an amendment, which I would like to support. Minister, you know the problem. It's quite acidic, especially in areas of the western Attica, but not just. There, then, especially in areas where poorer people live, especially in areas that we call degraded and forensics, there is a low-intensive practice but extremely annoying. Inside everything these people have in their lives, they have this too. So what is it? Suddenly, violating groups, 2 p.m. at night, put the music in the diaphragm. The whole neighborhood is waking up. It's a huge matter. It's done on several occasions. It's not individual. It's not sporadic. They're constant. People call the police at the Medidium. The police are coming. What does he see? Disorder of public silence. What's that? A feudal violation. They do sue. At some point the man who does it will go to the courthouse. Deal. Then when the police leave, again in the intersection until morning. So we have tabled the Members of the Attica Region of New Democracy, George Vlachos, Thanasis, Bourras, Georgia and I, an amendment we are asking for? So it is, in fact, the disruption of the common quiet act punishable to a perpetual degree. We call for the repeated execution to be punished to a delinquency with a prison sentence of up to one year. But what will be the most disgusting nature? It will make it possible to activate the self-defence process in order to deal with this antisocial behaviour. Now, I understand - and it is a contribution from my distinguished colleague here - that there is one issue with the division of the system of relapse, but I do not put it here in the context of relapse. Why would relapse mean what? It would simply mean that the fine would go more expensive. The purpose is not attained. Nor do I think that it is right that a felony violation should be committed for the whole. Why? Because, for example, a formidable party in a building should not be punished to an impunity. However, the repeated execution of the operation - which is always the same and the same in whole regions - must be punished to the extent of a misdemeanour. Well, we suggest this change of article 417 of the Criminal Code to disturb peace, and we hope, Minister, that you will accept it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr. Voridis. Mrs Keramos, New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin with two comments on the procedure. The first comment concerns public consultation. I would not be referring to this if we did not see it repeated in too many bills. Minister, it is not possible for public and open consultation to be selective. It is not possible and it is not legitimate that only some of the articles in the bills are put to consultation - usually the most immaterial articles - and others - the most controversial articles - should not be consulted. Minister, I would like a little attention, please. What's the result? The result is, because the most controversial articles are not in consultation, that the debate with society should ultimately be excluded, precisely in relation to these most controversial issues. In connection with this draft law, the articles relating to the ratification of the Convention and the Protocol and the transposition of the directive, to which there is, of course, a broad consensus, have been consulted, but many of the problematic other provisions, such as Articles 8 and 9, have not been put before the public, which provide for the abolition of the penalty and for the limitation of the penalty. I would ask the Minister, who will follow, to give us an explanation for this selective public consultation. Second point on a point of order. Ladies and gentlemen, so far we have had amendments which are irrelevant to the subject of the law under discussion. We have had amendments that have been delayed. We had amendments which came to nothing but five of the end of the sitting. As of today, we also have'slash' amendments, which have not yet been tabled to the House, but the ministers come and tell us about them. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President - you can also take it to the President of this House - we must finally put an end to this truce of the parliamentary procedure. I'm on my way to the point. Of course, it is with pleasure and with satisfaction that we see a framework of provisions relating to so-called cybercrime, that is, crimes committed through or within the cyberspace with this draft law. It is a matter of the utmost importance, as it is unacceptable to live in the digital age in 2016 and to regulate the relevant legislative framework in Greece back to a 1988 law. On the one hand, ladies and gentlemen, we agree in principle with this draft law, which introduces necessary provisions on cybercrime. However, serious concerns arise, for some of the articles included in the second part of this, in the so-called other provisions, many of which, as I said, were not included in the public consultation. I start with Articles 8 and 9, which regulate anti-criminal policy issues. In Article 8, a special reason for eliminating the abusiveness and the cessation of criminal prosecutions for trespasses and offences punished by imprisonment of up to two years, or both, shall be introduced, provided that a certain period of time has elapsed since they have elapsed and that the perpetrators have not reintroduced criminal offences. Article 9 introduces the regulation of limitations for up to six months imposed by decisions adopted until the publication of the law, provided that they have not become irreversible and that penalties have not been devised in any way. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that similar provisions had been introduced in the past in order to dismantle the courts from cases which remain unjust. However, there are some notable differences. With the provisions you are proposing today, you are significantly expanding the scope of the elimination of the dignity and limitation of penalties. And I would like to explain that you are now eliminating the criminal offences against a prison sentence of up to two years and not up to six months and a year provided for in the previous regulations. It also gives a special impression, Minister, that more is the charges of offences that eliminate criminal offences and can be dropped. I mention, for example, that criminality is being eliminated and for offences such as the disruption of common peace, the destruction of foreign property, and that the penalty for offences such as theft, dangerous physical damage, resistance, traffic blockage, offences involving weapons, ammunition, explosives, explosive devices, flares and fireworks is being recorded. And to say it very simply, Minister, you are expanding the forgiveness of sins. You give forgiveness to more. But there's another important problem. By repeating such arrangements to eradicate the deportation and the limitation of penalties, the impression is finally given of a fixed arrangement that cancels the criminal proceedings, the purposes of the criminal proceedings and, ultimately, the deterrent functioning of the sentence. I move to Article 15 on matters of penitentiary policy. Ladies and gentlemen, with Article 15, you are evacuating by one year the possibility of being released under conditions of prisoners serving multiannual sentences. These arrangements were introduced by you, Minister, in April 2015 as emergency measures for the dismantling of booking stores with a one-year term of validity. However, it is well known that there is no permanent solution to the problem. Today, Minister, recommend extending the validity of your own provision for a further year until April 2017. And I ask: is he gonna stop there? And above all: What have you done this year to dismantle prisons and improve the living conditions of the detainees, in order not to need this extension, so that other convicted criminals do not have to be released? Whatever you have done, obviously you yourself considered it inadequate, because you yourself are proposing to extend the possibility of release for another year. To what end? What is your strategic planning to improve detention conditions? I am very afraid and I really hope to deny that such arrangements are not introduced to solve exceptional and temporary problems. Such arrangements tend to be of a permanent and lasting nature, thereby weakening the functioning of the sentence and, of course, weakening the effectiveness of criminal justice. I would also like to refer to Article 11, which regulates issues of the Code of Procedure. Here, ladies and gentlemen, we have this unprecedented: a legal committee is set up to reform the Code of Justice and Court of Justice, and with the same law as this committee is set up, you are making partial changes to the applicable code. So the question arises: What, Minister, is this rush? What exactly does the introduction of individual settings of a code that is going to change in whole in the next period? If I'm not mistaken you said yourself that the purpose of the legislature is to complete its work by the end of 2016. One can only connect, Minister, this legislative 'premura' - if I may say so - with the archivisms of the great courts and prosecutors of the country in September 2016, in less than two months from now. So you change the rules only a few months before the antiquities take place, and the result is to create a climate of instability and suspicion and to inspire the candidates to feel that they are being treated unequally, as they may be photographic arrangements that favour some of them. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, fragmentation and a hurry to legislate on the provisions gives rise to reasonable suspicions of suspicious intentions. Finally, make legislation consistent and strategically. In the same logic as, unfortunately, you tend to follow each legislative initiative, the amendment on the independent authorities and the possibility that teaching and research staff should be appointed as members of independent authorities. We shall be able to make a statement on the amendment, after having received some answers from the Minister, to the following two questions in particular: First, Minister, why does this regulation not take over all the independent authorities? Why does it only occupy the constitutionally guaranteed independent authorities? Secondly, Mr Minister, why is the Minister of State, Mr Pappas, signing the amendment? As far as we know, it has no competence in this regard. Or does this amendment for the independent authorities relate to a specific independent authority of its competence? We will have great interest in the Minister's replies. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to take a wider view of justice and the measures that we are debating today. As I have said before, the measures to eradicate deportation, to suspend penalties, to dismiss the sentenced detainees are all on the day, fire-fighting measures, which do not address this problem on their own. They're only going to face some of the manifestations of the problem. I say this because the real problem is the slow administration of justice and the detention conditions in prison. Ladies and gentlemen, we should all be concerned about the extent to which Greek citizens enjoy the right to a fair trial, as enshrined in Article 6 of the ECHR and the right to decent treatment in prisons, as enshrined in Article 3 of the ECHR. We should all be concerned about the body of convictions - more than four hundred - of the Greek state by the Court of Strasbourg, of convictions concerning both the slowness of justice and the conditions of detention in prisons. We should also be concerned about the elements of the World Bank, according to which our country now ranks in the fifty-five-five-five-year position of countries that are late to deal with cases, with an average time of justice, which is 4.3 years as a matter of fact. Minister, should we finally create those conditions so that judges can carry out their work, instead of systematically relinquishing sins to those who are illegal? Should we fight to ensure that prison conditions are decent, rather than free, because of congestion, criminals who have been convicted? Eventually, should we make real reforms instead of on-line, emblematic-type, fire-fighting interventions? Ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude with a reference to the late amendment tabled last night on the training of supposedly public-private programmes. It is a pity for society to increase income tax, to increase to unprecedented and unreasonable levels of social security contributions for young professionals, to close down, therefore, entire branches of new free professionals, to send them to unemployment and then come and say with an amendment 'we will make projects of a mutual nature, to reduce unemployment, to give jobs to the unemployed'. By the way, you also create three hundred new sixty new permanent organic positions in the public sector. And I ask, what are those three hundred sixty? Do you have a plan or do you simply continue to hire blindly, indiscriminately in public? And as if that were not enough, it still buzzes, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority, the society from the amendment you tabled last night. What does this amendment say? That there will no longer be any limit to the costs of the persons accompanying the Prime Minister, the Finance, Foreign and National Defence Ministers on official trips, and that these own escorts will be entitled to stay in a hotel of the same category. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, what social state do you speak of when you have devastated society in the whole? When you have cut pensions, master, subsidiary, CIRR, widow's pensions, invalidity pensions? When you've increased taxes on income, on solidarity, on VAT? When you yourself have led young people - so many young people - to unemployment, why are they unable to pay the unfavourable contributions? At the same time, while doing all of this, you are provokingly increasing state spending and hiring "logues" to the public. What kind of social state are you talking about? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u161	Thank you to the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Niki Kerameos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u162	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u163	About what?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u164	Amendments are still being tabled and the list of speakers is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u165	We'll come to them. The Minister for Justice has the floor, Mr Paraskevopoulos, and then we will give the floor to Mr Alexiadis, to develop the amendments, and there you will raise your objections and objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u166	Mr President, I'm sorry, I'd like a second. Shouldn't the Minister speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u167	Deuteronology when will we have?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u168	The Minister will now speak, Mr Tsirkas, a Parliamentary representative of SYRIZA will speak, and then it is the secondary ones. Mr Fotellis, Mr Balomemakis and those of us who want to talk. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr President. And today I must thank the Members and Members for the creative debate. Even today, after the end of the work of the committees, we have had useful ideas or at least a useful idea, such as the addition of Rule 358, of breaching the maintenance obligation on exemptions from the provision that provides for limitations on terms, which, of course, was approved for my part, because it was a good idea. I therefore think that we are continuing in a very good climate and we are trying for the best possible legislation, supporting everyone or bringing objections and denials. Because, in general, the bill is now known to everyone, I will confine myself to the points that have been problematic. I do not think we have a special concern in the regulations concerning cybercrime. Perhaps only in Article 4, as regards the institution which imposes administrative fines, we had an objection, which was finally accepted. I therefore go through the next arrangements, which have indeed raised several objections. Firstly, I should like to refer to a point of order, in Mrs Kerameus's comment, that some of the arrangements did not go beyond the 'DENMARK'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u170	It's a consultation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u171	My experience with legislative work is that today, for reasons of which I have no objection or reservation, which relate to the development of the legislative process and the international relations of the country, legislation has begun to take place slowly. It has to pass through DISTRIBUTION, it has to be done before the institutions, if the matter falls under Law No.4336, Law No.4339 etc., it has to go through the General Accounting Office, which now takes more time, because it has more parameters to check, with the result that all these procedures make a legislative process which is slow. Poor? Oh, no. Good. I agree that this must be done, but in some cases there are issues of a more urgent nature or issues that have arisen before this process begins and are put under Parliament's discretion exceptionally and some issues which have not been dealt with in this process. If there were any objections, of course, the relevant arrangements could not be supported by a debate here. I go through these articles and, first and foremost, to the conditional limitation and cessation of criminal prosecution, which is foreseen for offenders who have a maximum penalty of two years. I will not agree that these are serious offences, which have a maximum penalty of up to two years. The defects, anyway, are the slightest accusation we have. The ceiling is two years, which means the minimum is ten days. We're talking about these crimes. You will notice that the exceptions we have noted in the application of this regulation are too many. There are many of them, both those concerning provisions of the Criminal Code and those concerning regulations of special criminal laws. Madam Tindemans, I should like to respond to this point that arms arrangements are excluded. It's in the arrangements mentioned as exceptions. Law 2168/1993 expressly referred to. I'm saying this because you talked about arms use too. I think that all of this falls under Law 2168 and is not regulated. Well, I'll explain the philosophy. In principle, the limitation on terms is not such as the regulation on decongestion. It may seem parallel, but it's not an arrangement that's acquired periodicity. The dismantling provision concerns conditional dismissal. Indeed, we have proposed these provisions around 2000 and since 2005 as a decongestive, with a shorter period of dismissal, and it is repeated annually. We are not just repeating the n.4322 at the moment. Repeat Law4322, which reiterated Law 4274/2014, which reiterated another precedent. Since 2005, we have had disastrous arrangements. I'll talk about them. But I'm going to bail-out on terms. That's something else. In our recent history, we do not always have conditional limitation arrangements. We had some cases. We had 1982 and 2005, if I remember correctly. These arrangements are very little. What is it that justifies the limitation on terms of some comparative slight misdemeanours? One thing, of course, is to alleviate the burden of the cases in which the courts have cases. He goes out before we get to some conviction. But that's not the only reason. There is also a social reason, which is clear. If you see the list and see where the operations are excluded, what remains? There's a few left. In fact, some things are excluded that I have mentioned, illegal violence, traffic disruption crimes, indifference, acts that are very common or natural, if you like, being carried out at times in which they have some social tensions. That's what this is about. Thanks to this arrangement, acts that had been committed to agricultural mobilisations or other similar mobilisations in this difficult period are those which would fall under the conditional limitation. Should we proceed with this arrangement? My opinion is undoubtedly positive. We had to move on because in our country the world has, to a very large extent in recent years, been faced by the conditions of a steep economic crisis, often found in the squares, the pavement, the ports. This world found in the squares and ports, whether they were farmers or truck drivers, or taxi drivers, is not the criminals who should have, for an act they did - which, I am not saying, has a crime characteristic, it is a flood - to be troubled and stigmatized for their entire lives, for an occasional passage they did, indeed, under conditions of non-legality, under certain conditions of protest, which escaped from the quiet that they should have in other cases. I'm not saying this is not a crime. I'm saying it's crimes completely occasionally and lightly, their character is social and political, I'd say. I have told you once again that I find the political character here, that is, when there are political claims and not when there are homicides or other serious crimes, which their perpetrators claim to be the political prisoner. In these cases where we have socio-political demands, which are massive and which have occurred at a time when there has been a disturbance, I think that it is enough for the citizen to be punished, with his referral to court, his sentence may be at first instance and with persecution, to show him that what he did is not lawful and that he should try to deal with his difficulties in a different way and not with these mobilisations. But that is the philosophy in principle of this arrangement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u172	Mr Minister, while you speak, the amendments are being tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u173	What's that thing?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u174	Excuse me for interrupting, but I want to know if you're accepting what's happening now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u175	This is a storm in tabling amendments at the very last minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u176	It's unprecedented!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u177	The sitting is closed and three different amendments have been tabled!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u178	How do you stand it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u179	They don't have your signature. I want to know if you accept this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u180	Look. They have been taken into account, and I personally have no objections about their content. Now, the point of procedure is not mine.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u181	At the last minute? Aren't you interested in parliamentary dialogue?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u182	Indeed, Mr President, by a Minister who is not even present to support it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u183	Please. The Minister must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u184	Excuse me. Let me finish. I replied to you on the substance. I said on a point of order that I cannot answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u185	Of course, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u186	I think that they are the Ministers responsible here, and they will support the amendments in substance too. And you'll be able to get in position. We will all be taking a stand on this after a good argument. I'm on it. In addition to the limitations on terms and the cessation of criminal prosecution, which has, moreover, been accepted by our case-law, as part of the legal order already in 1982 and by a decision of the Ice Board, as being different from amnesty, we have the regulation on the decongestion of prisons. Of course it's an old-fashioned arrangement. It is a regulation that is repeated every year. And I cannot say that it is inappropriate to say that we must once stop with these regulations, which extend the short period of dismissal and improve the conditions in prisons. Of course this is the right way to deal with the problem. Do you know what the matter is? The point is that we cannot abolish the corporations before the fractures are removed. And the fractures have not yet been abolished because they are not legally abolished. In other words, improving prison conditions is not something that can be done with the ethics of the law. It has to be done by project manipulation. That's what we're trying to do. And in the direction of effective and permanent decongestion, we are taking steps, through the legal committee of the Criminal Code and the Penal Code, which are progressing in a way that will allow for a radical reform of the system of penalties so that we can have lowerly threatened penalties - because, indeed, the threatened sentences in our country are too high - and, of course, a system of redundancies, which does not include these transitional arrangements as well. We are therefore working on decongestion and legislation and we are trying to improve prison conditions and practically. Absolutely, you're reading the papers in the press. You read that in prison the interconnection of hospitals with the ESS is progressing. You've definitely read about the schools that were inaugurated. I can inform you that we have received the credit from Jilberto Gera, the number two of the UN Commission on Crime Prevention and Drug Addiction, who described this unit as an export model. When a new human visiting space was inaugurated in Nigrita, so that the children are still in an environment that will not affect them, we heard the criticism that these are "framework ribbon" and that only something is done about a window. Already, however, a second space was inaugurated and many others are being prepared. Right now, there's a cosmology in the prison area. In fact, a lot of works are being done. We are going to get to the point where we have a better situation. However, as long as this has not happened yet, we cannot accept a state of congestion in prisons. It is said that the situation of congestion causes conditions of mistreatment, for which we have been convicted, we pay money and, furthermore, we have been rejected by a public declaration against our country. This is an unfavourable privilege for our country which, among the countries that fall within the Council of Europe's circle, only concerns our country, Turkey and Russia. Can we accept reproducing this state of congestion and not trying, at least as a first step, to have more human conditions and then, of course, also to upgrade the structures of prisons? Another subject on which a lot of discussion has been held is the question of reforming the way in which the courts are elected. I support this reform because I think it is right. I think it is right to repeat a successful term of office in the administration of the courts of the country, because I have experience of participating in similar administrative bodies at the university. I understand that a short term, such as the two-year term, in many cases does not even allow the project owner to be present at the time when the decisions taken are to be implemented. If you want, this can also be in the worst cases of irresponsibility, of the type "I will make a decision and until it starts to apply and shape situations that may be problematic, I will not be present". The two-year term of office shall not ensure that the know-how and administrative experience they take on board as they carry out this administrative work are exploited by those who have undertaken it. We must be careful here that the regulation does not propose a second term of office. It is simply proposing the possibility of nomination. This means that one might consider himself worthy of a second term, but the whole because he does not consider him worthy, or because he has the idea that the terms should not be repeated, that he should not be voted on and voted on by another, who first appears as candidate. Of course, I think that all these arguments about short-term change at the last minute have already been answered. A two-month change before the elections is not surprising. The previous one had taken place in 2014, nine days ago. I do not invoke it to justify the two months, but to explain that two months are sufficient because the judges do not have much time to deal with their administrative tasks, but especially the courts. Of course, the fact that it was not the subject of a second term of office beforehand did not allow anyone to pursue an administrative policy in a way which would later favour his term of office. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] I think I have answered the main points. Some of the things that were put forward and related to the involvement of external guards at the prison gates, I think they have obvious explanations. The gate isn't the inside of the prison. It is an area in which guards come into contact with people from abroad and the existence of trained guards - and, indeed, armed - certainly helps security. As far as the provision for the protection of witnesses is concerned, I would reiterate that the only new one, which exists here, is that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior is now necessarily involved, because they have competence in relation to the protected witnesses. I will conclude with the arrangement, which concerns the members of the Expert Council, which will be decided on during the operation of the so-called surplus fund. I think that the criticism that has been made in this regulation is unfounded. First of all, this arrangement has nothing to do with photographs or immunitys. It is not a regulation which deals with some acts which have been done and which now stipulates that any acts that have then been acted are legally or retrospectively rejected by the criminal or anything else. It is an arrangement, which is introduced as a fixed power arrangement. Of course, as a criminal regulation, if some cases are pending, he will understand them. So the point is, whether this arrangement is right or not. I claim it is. Firstly, some of you have noticed, some of you have not, if my memory is not cheating on me, the fact that this arrangement is subject to judicial review. It is not a legislative remit or a legislative elimination in some acts. It will be at the judge' s discretion whether the unfairness - if you like - will be waived of some of the opinions which have been made scientifically in line with essential standards which exist in relevant instruments, and of course also audited by the Court of Auditors. What's going on here, I mean. We are dealing here, in principle, with a fixed arrangement which says that there is freedom of expression of scientific opinion. That's an opinion. It does not refer to a management act or an administrative act and says that this act cannot be eliminated or said about its inefficiency or anything, if it is not correct. But shouldn't the opinion always be free? In essence, this regulation comes up and repeats what is printed as a spirit, as a general principle and in our Constitution. Of course, the court will recognise these conditions, if both procedural and substantive terms have been met, such as those which will be audited by the Court of Auditors. We are therefore dealing with a regulation, which only deals with opinions, which ensures freedom of opinion, so that those who will be called upon to express an opinion do not have any concerns about what may be the result of their opinion in the future, where various reflective issues may arise, but can express their scientific opinion freely and, of course, provided that they have complied with all the standards of substance that exist before. I think if I had more time, I could talk more. However, if there are partial remarks, I will come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u187	Minister, for the amendment we proposed, what are you thinking?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u188	Let me tell you, I'd be happy to tell you. First of all, I agree with you. I think it is difficult to accept it today, because it needs some treatment, because it concerns both noise pollution and the Criminal Code, the slap. I agree with what you say by the four questions that, if these noise pollutions are done on several occasions, they are really very seriously harmful and the fall is not sufficient to deal with them. The Ministry of Justice has also drawn up a draft law which promotes, and we will see it carefully, in order to adopt it, but with a different explanatory statement, Mr Voridis. I think so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u189	Minister, will you say about the amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u190	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u191	Wait a minute. Wait. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a little bit about the procedure. Because they're waiting...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u192	What are they expected? No, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u193	...three more amendments...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u194	No, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u195	Mr President, this is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u196	I'm sorry, please! To be able to hold a civilised dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u197	Is the House an evening pharmacy, Mr President? Excuse me very much, but you in particular...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u198	As another three amendments are expected to be tabled, until we have a statement and debate on all the points raised and on the subject of procedure - the present ministers are here - I would propose that, in order to have the whole landscape, we give the floor for twelve minutes to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mr Tsirka. In the meantime, we will know exactly what the situation is and then we will talk about it. Don't open a conversation...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u199	Mr President, the situation is tragic!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u200	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u201	Mr President, because I have to go back to the Ministry, I should like to talk about the two amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u202	Oh, the Minister is in a hurry!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u203	Very handsome!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u204	Mr President, will Parliament be systematically humiliated? What contempt is this to Parliament? What attitude is this?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u205	Mr President, what is happening here is challenging!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u206	Mr Minister, if I may, I think we can give the floor for twelve minutes to Mr Tsirka and then, having all the landscape, we can talk about them. So you will allow me to give the floor for twelve minutes to Mr Circa. I think it'll clear the scene and...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u207	Mr President, my colleague will allow me on a point of order, because what is happening is very serious. Mr President, an amendment is tabled...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u208	But then we'll see. Yeah, but now we're not in this process. The list of amendments has not been opened. We're in the process of finishing Mr....
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u209	What list, Mr. President? The meeting is closed, the meeting is closed!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u210	No, no. So it cannot be done, because it will open up an entire debate and disrupt the course we have. He is the last parliamentary representative. We'll see later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u211	Mr President, an amendment is being introduced on a subject that was discussed in plenary yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u212	But you don't have the floor. You're talking in the process. So Mr Tsirkas will be speaking and then we will be opening this up. Here, Mr. Circa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of the bill we are debating today is the modernisation of our legislation, the legal order in the field of cyberspace.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u214	It is raining today!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u215	They brought two more, Mr President! It's not possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u216	Will you let me continue?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u217	We're just sittin' here!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u218	We'll sit down all the way, because it gets interesting to join us! They have brought two more amendments!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u219	How about this evil, Mr President? What does the Bureau say about this?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u220	Mr President, these are unauthorized things.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u221	It's raining.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u222	Is that what you're talking about? What does the President of Parliament say about this thing?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u223	Mr President, is there a Member who will have read these amendments before they are voted on? Do you not care, Mr President, completely? I'm asking!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u224	We'll see about it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u225	How do you protect the authority of Parliament from the humiliation that the government makes in Parliament?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u226	We'll see about it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u227	Mr President, is there a Member who will read all this? A Member of Parliament, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u228	Good!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u229	No more hypocrisy, no more demagogue! If you don't want the CSCE to be voted on, say it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u230	Let go of that now!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u231	Don't do that!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u232	Mr President, they are granted property!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u233	You're too democrat, to be here!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u234	Aren't you embarrassed? Is there anyone to protect the House from this?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u235	None of you have the floor! That's not how it's going to be.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u236	Shame on you! Shame on you! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u237	Minister, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u238	You're not shy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u239	Hypocrisy and demagogue!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u240	Is there anyone, Mr President, to protect Parliament from this mess?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u241	Hypocrisy and demagogue!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u242	Look at your face in the mirror!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u243	You cut off the C.E.S.A., and now...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u244	You don't want to say it, but you abolished it! So these people don't get any money! You don't want retired people to take their money!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u245	Mr President, the Greek State has been granted for for forty years!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u246	Say openly that you don't want the pensioners to get their money!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u247	Calm down! You'll get nothing from your passion for the poor! But aren't you embarrassed?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u248	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u249	Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u250	Please, everybody! Ladies and gentlemen, I have told you that the subject of the amendments will be discussed shortly afterwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u251	Who can we vote for, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u252	Immediately after! I said we'll talk about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u253	In order to vote on them, we have to discuss them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u254	Mr President, forty years real estate has been granted and the government does not want the Greek people to know about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u255	Don't get into the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u256	Because they come without a single Member being able to read them and come to the end of the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u257	I'll see you later, Mrs. Kerameau! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u258	Mr President, you have an institutional role. You must protect the Greek Parliament and the three hundred Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u259	Good! I know!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u260	You are President of the three hundred and not of the ruling majority!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u261	Yeah, I know. I know, that's right. Let Mr. Circus talk and we'll see everything later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u262	Mr President, we want to respond to the innocence of the Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u263	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u264	You are immoral and whoever does not defend the poor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u265	Quiet, please. Do not use such expressions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u266	This is where we have an unprecedented attack.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u267	Everybody calm down and we'll see then. Mr. Circa, please continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the subject of the bill is the modernisation of the legislation, the legal order in the field of cyberspace, and it makes an effort to bring Greek legislation closer to the common European Union, common to all European countries, it is about committing criminal offences, through the Internet and more detailed reports on attacks against information systems, new forms of crime. Of course, we have the protocol, which follows and mainly provides for crimes involving racism and xenophobia, committed via the Internet. The Budapest Convention, which is included in the first part of the bill, as is well known, aims to harmonise the Greek laws on criminalisation of conduct linked to cybercrime. It includes a large number of crimes, which are crimes affecting confidentiality, integrity and availability of computer data and systems. Included are behaviours such as illegal access to computer systems, data interfering, interfering with programs or digital data. Indeed, there was a significant deficit in the Greek legal system, on protection in the specific field of crime, and so, for the first time, similar crimes are being standardised with this bill and the incorporation of the directive contained in it. It is known that, since the mid-1970s, a new criminal phenomenon has emerged, crime through computers. A large number of people have access to the Internet, through which they carry out a series of major activities, product purchase, news briefing, information exchange, advertising and much more. While, therefore, it contributes to facilitating communication, cases of criminal offences are being created. And it is also known that 70% of the people he uses - according to research - the Internet, believes that it is very likely to fall victim to online crime. Cybercrime therefore constitutes a serious threat, not only to natural or legal persons, private or public, but also to the proper functioning of the states. It is therefore necessary to coordinate at European and international level, effective and continuous judicial cooperation between the European States. We need a suitable, binding and effective legislative framework to combat cybercrime. Indeed, the reasons that criminals prefer to use the Internet are because - as previous colleagues have pointed out - the Internet allows access to a large number of people, has low costs, has low risks, ensures anonymity and, of course, there are no geographical restrictions at all. These are preconditions that make the internet an ideal place to act on persons with criminal behaviour. The question raised and prevented by the bill is how and whether every citizen can be protected and, in particular, children, adolescents and women, as a colleague of mine said before, from this form of crime. The Council of Europe Convention therefore provides for the obligation of States to take appropriate measures to ensure that they can order - if we find that crimes are committed - persons on the ground who are subject to the provision of computer data, which are supposed or in use, and who are also required to provide information, services and subscription services. Therefore, issues relating to judicial assistance between the Contracting Parties are also regulated, in order to address the phenomenon of transnational crime in this area. There are, of course, other procedural arrangements relating to this version. With the Additional Protocol we have the criminalisation of acts of a xenophobic and racist nature, which are carried out via the Internet. As the Minister himself said in the committees, similar legislation is already being promoted in the European Union which may include regulations, which we will have had time to legislate on. We therefore have in this bill the standardisation of these crimes, the harmonisation of national laws in criminalising criminal offences relating to the Internet, but also the addition of procedural provisions, with the aim of conducting investigations by judicial and police authorities in real time, and a network of contact points that will operate on a 24-hour basis to protect citizens from such crimes. Ladies and gentlemen, as early as 1948 with the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, there have been considerable, but not enough, in my opinion, steps to combat racism and xenophobia, such as the 1965 International Convention on the Elimination of All kinds of Racial Discrimination. But the development of technology, the progress of days and the creation of strong media and communication gives groups the opportunity to promote racist theories and move materials with a view to carrying out such racist acts. The scope of the Cyber Crime Convention is therefore widened, with a view to eliminating such acts of a racist and xenophobic nature. Such acts, which are carried out systematically through computer systems and the parties to the contract, are therefore subject to the necessary legislative measures. The other provisions concern and regulate issues relating to the penitentiary system and, in general, the improvement of the justice system. Since the beginning of this governance, we have been trying to create the best possible framework of real justice and not punishment. It is an effort that can take time in the Greek state and in this government, but we are also aiming to make other similar positive arrangements in the future. It is therefore a question of introducing the elimination of criminal offences and the cessation of criminal prosecution for acts of relatively low decency. It concerns, therefore, acts of low social decency, trespasss and defects, for which the law threatens sentences, which do not exceed two years' imprisonment, or two years' penalty payments, or both. There are, of course, safeguard clauses in the case of limitations on terms such as having elapsed a certain period of time from the completion of the acts and, of course, the condition is that no further criminal offence should be committed at all or that no one should be condemned at any time irrevocably, for a particular period of time, the one that will then benefit. These crimes are, of course, excluded, some of them, which by their nature and despite the slightness of the penalty, it is difficult to forgive socially and to forget, and that is why this regulation also includes a certain number of offences against public property, mainly but also against individual goods, against minors, wagers and about racist behaviour, which are excluded from what I have just said. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Mr President, you know you haven't zeroed the timer, so I have a little more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u269	Until the Buyourdi arrives.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u270	Go on, Mr. Circa.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u271	We also have important arrangements in the area of the training of judges and the administration of courts, where significant changes are taking place, such as an increase in gravity rates in specific courses taught at the school of judges, and an accelerated and shorter time for subsequent introductory examinations. Ladies and gentlemen, our steps to modernise structures are firm and decisive. A country like Greece is also in line with the common European acquis and we are moving towards implementing arrangements for an open and democratic state as we see it. It is our position and a great bet on the Left for equal treatment of citizens for a fair, atrocity-free society of all forms of racism and xenophobia. After I referred to the bill, we owe two answers. One concerns a number of parties, which have called on them since yesterday to make announcements on government amendments, in particular on the escort and on the security of government officials. Some people have been raped to make announcements, but we have to tell the Greek people the truth. It is known that before this arrangement, all government mission escorts stayed at the same hotels, with government officials and all costs, until then. It is now precisely the same for more than sixty days, because we have been over these days. It is important, ladies and gentlemen, that this country at last plays an international role and we have had to make these regulations, because they concern workers. They're not government officials. It has to do with the difficulty of finding financial hotels. And you know that very well, because you have ruled over all the previous years. It is therefore only about five people and it extends this arrangement for over sixty days, only for the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the Minister of National Defence, the Economy and Foreign Affairs. That's to restore the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u272	Please complete, Mr. Circa.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u273	I am sorry, Mr President, but another matter has been raised by the Vice-President of the New Democracy, Mr Georgiadis, and this has been answered. It owes an answer to the Qualified Opposition...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u274	Here, for the amendments...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u275	I will also tell you about the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u276	You have as long as you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u277	About the so-called...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u278	Gloat everything and implement everything!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u279	Is that a way to talk to the speaker?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u280	They're exactly similar to your quality and style.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u281	Mr. Circa, please conclude. You're far beyond time. Complete your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u282	Regarding the so-called mission of fifty four government officials in Paros, the government has responded and you ought to take a position on this answer, because you have served in a crescendo of propaganda, yellowism and populism, which you should put aside. And I close, Mr. President, you will allow me...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u283	No, I won't allow you. Please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u284	All allowed!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u285	Wait a minute, Mr President, to say about the ESS and the amendment that Mr Katrugalos has already tabled, and on which Mr Katrugalos has made a first initial position. We all know very well that the policy of the memorandum has led a large part of society to the margin.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u286	What a humiliation that is!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u287	Mr. Javarra, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u288	And we are coming today to meet our commitments and to compensate for this cut that has been unfairly made to those who have low pensioners who have taken the CSR with concrete measures. There was a direct response from the government and the Ministry responsible. We continue in this direction to build a new social state, which you have levelled, Mr. Officer, over the past few years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u289	All right, Mr. Circa, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the Standing Committees on Production and Trade and Public Administration, Public Order and Justice shall submit their report to the draft law of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism: ‘Resigning and executing concessions - Harmonization by Directive 2014/23/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the award of concessions contracts (OJ L 94/1/28.3.2014) and other provisions’. We're on our way to secondary levels on the bill. Mr. Fotillas has the floor for two minutes. Mr. Balomemakis on the bill for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u290	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order. It's a very serious matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u291	Please. Then we'll talk about the process. We know exactly what this is all about. We do not use the word 'procedure'. We know what's going on. I then tell you that we will discuss the subject of the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u292	Mr President, do you want to delay any more? I am aware that an amendment has been tabled just a minute ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u293	But not on the basis of the substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u294	No, another amendment was tabled a minute ago. I have the information right now from Legislative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u295	Sit down, Mrs. Kerameus. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u296	How far will that go, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u297	Mr. Fotella, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u298	Unfortunately, we see the established practice to continue, until the last minute, to be subjected to inappropriate amendments, the Minister speaking of amendments which have not been tabled and, on the other hand, of tabling amendments at the time of the Minister responsible. All that is missing is that amendments should come as soon as we vote on the articles. That's all it's done so far! We might see that, too. But today you have taken it one step further. First of all, Mr Katrugalos for an amendment to the CSCE. He even had the nerve to tell us that it would be our fault if we were not voted on today and people didn't get his money. Anyway, he came to tell us he was going to testify while he was talking. Finally, he has told us that he respects the parliamentary procedures. I am afraid, Minister, that at this moment I am addressing a personal point - that the lie has become your second nature. You use it, even when you don't need it. It's just beyond you. This may mean two pounds: ‘Or that there is a medical problem - and that would justify your attitude, and you should see it - or that he is just Mr. Katrugalos and he cannot do otherwise.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u299	You are praised for what I hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u300	You'll let me finish. I wish you the first thing, but I'm afraid the second is happening. You're just a man without any moral barriers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u301	What's this?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u302	I'm on it. What I think I'm saying without swearing. I would now like to say a few words on the subject of the Minister for Transport. I was also informed a few minutes ago that the Prime Minister, too, was given the sponsorship of a private airline to go to the island of Cyclades. First of all, let us say that this is contrary to Article 8 of the Government's Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct of the Government in Article 8 provides that this cannot be done. First of all, I wonder whether Mr Tsipras accepted this sponsorship, but, politically speaking, I wonder whether there is a bottom in this catastrophe. This private airline had been denounced by the Government for a monopoly, as well as the acquisition by the latter at the time of the Olympics. Now are you not honestly ashamed, as a left-wing government - which has the moral advantage you are supposed to have - to receive sponsorships and, indeed, private sponsorship? Let us remind you that half of Paros airport has been built by AEGEAN, with its own money. I don't know if this is all so legitimate and moral. Unless we get to the conclusion that what's not illegal is not immoral. We've heard of this in the House. We'll hear it again, obviously. I think we should all leave this House right now and the Minister should come and bring the bill on Tuesday, because that is how we legalise the unacceptableness of this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u303	Thank you, Mr. Firela. Mr Balommenakis has the floor on the bill for dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u304	Mr President, at the beginning of the procedure we said that the rapporteurs' seconds were seven and a half minutes. If you want to talk on equal terms. I'm waiting for the President to tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u305	Okay. I can give you five minutes. We just said to shorten the time in general.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u306	The very good points made by the rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, about the good climate of our cooperation so far have strengthened a few remarks. I don't know why. They're forcing us to say a few things. It cannot, for example, be easily accepted that, when our government takes a measure to relieve billboards and penitentiary stores, it is good and, when another government takes them, it is rejected. We cannot sow the horror that criminals will return to the crime scene to devastate their victims when they are not unknown methods. Even controversial, even debated, but in any case, it is not happening for the first time. Strangely enough, I would like to agree with Mr Voridis that the evaluation of these methods has not so far been carried out. That's true. But we are all aware that this government has launched a process of reforming the Criminal Code. And here, then, we are all called upon to contribute with science, with calm and with humanitarian criteria. We, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, do not accept the extreme demagogy based on a supreme fear of society. Of course, we are devoting ourselves to the existence of human rights and to the prisoners, and we do not accept that this position should be ridiculed. And we say that, not only because we are a left-wing government, but because that is what the whole civilized Europe is saying. And by saying right, we are not saying the right to release - it is obvious, although it must be stressed - but the right to human detention conditions. At the moment, despite undoubted progress, there is no doubt that we are behind us. Here we are, therefore, all concerned with how to improve conditions so that in future any relevant beneficial provisions can be streamlined. This concerns us all, not just the rulers. As time is short, I have a few remarks on the isotopes, in my opinion, positions which have been expressed by two political parties. I think we had said a few things in the debate too. For the Golden Dawn party, I think there is no need for particular mention, because nationalism that said that it is being fought and persecuted by this bill is the cloak or better the veilers of racism and xenophobia. Clearly, it is another thing to love at home and another thing to be a patriot, and wherever he finds a weak and afflicted man or a social group chasing him. That's what I think they're known. They must be said, however, because everyone's actions are following him and - July - we must not forget that their ideological ancestors have been the ones who have plunged Cyprus and cowards, careless and traitors, after all, their homeland. I would like to refer to a minute and also to a level playing field, in my opinion. Of course I see it, I of course attach ideological interest and ideological importance to this view, but we also cannot accept the unequivocal view that anything that comes from the European Union serves monopolies, monopolies and that there is no need for society to serve capitalism. This is a deeply dogmatic view, in our understanding, and it does not help because there are laws. In some ways the rapporteur of the Communist Party also accepted that the current laws are sufficient. Therefore, they cannot be sufficient, as is a law, according to the logic of this system. And not to think that we ignore the laws of society. We also know globalisation the authoritarian nature that this process receives many times. We also agree that the so-called security area must be approached with consideration. Our difference is that we trust the forces of civil society, trust movements, self-sufficiency, the sensitivity of the judiciary and in general the dynamics that develop in society to resist these phenomena. Finally, I would like to refer to an existing issue as well. Irrespective of when it was tabled, and despite any disagreements, since yesterday afternoon, Mr President, it is both in the media and in the newspapers and everyone has published the subject of the replacement of the CSCE. The words, as we all know, have their meaning and the way in which words are produced and a procedure is called in intent and intent. The phrase used by the Prime Minister is "reconstruction of the social state". It's a honest approach. Equally frankly, we say that this transitional initiative is, in fact, far from our strategic objective. Reconstruction, the step by step again, is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, now that you are speaking in a positive and disgraceful way, precisely because you have unleashed it. For six years, this country has seen the paradoxical - stimulus of increasing rapidly, because of the policies of the previous governments, the poor, the afflicted, marginalised citizens and, at the same time, the rapid reduction in social spending. This reality we have an obligation and a commitment to overthrow it and overthrow it. Don't worry. We will take it slowly, of course, unless you want to, by the inadequate means we have. We are, however, giving all our powers to eliminate these phenomena and to make up for the losses caused by your policy already moderated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u307	Thank you, Mr. Balomannakis. Ladies and gentlemen, as we all understand, an issue has been raised concerning the tabling of amendments. We should try to do our best.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u308	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u309	Mr. Javarra, I'll give you the floor then...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u310	I have a right to secondary education, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u311	I'm sorry! Now take the time of your dentistry, so we can then enter into the debate on the amendments. Mr. Javarra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u312	I shall also take the time to discuss the amendments to make a single position.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u313	No, don't do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u314	I'm very sorry, but what I'm going to say is you won't say it. This is where we heard the colleague who swept out the shoe and we weren't talking!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u315	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u316	Now you're gonna stop me and tell me in advance what I'm supposed to say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u317	No, I won't stop you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u318	So listen, gentlemen of the government. You will have to know - because unfortunately so far you have not understood - that in this Chamber you are guests. And you, Professor, should at least be reluctant to do so in this Chamber, where people's sovereignty is exercised in a genuine and symbolic way, for the sake of which you have the position of the Minister of Labour, and which is more pious and above all without ignorance. But you have omitted to do that to us, but also to the Greek people's judgment you are exposed. And you're exposed for another reason. No one prevented you from bringing any amendments you had decided to bring, provided that this amendment had previously been the subject of a diligent and time-consuming statement. So, today you have had the requirement that the President-in-Office should keep the House sitting until you, together with your advisers, have the opportunity to bring us these pains that we have in our hands, for which we are told that we refuse to accept them as amendments, which are, firstly, irrelevant to this bill, secondly, late and third, are amendments which no one knows - because the Greek people will once learn from you - that they do not have the manipulations and sincerity that must accompany your energy, so that it is indeed an offer to the Greek people who are to be tortured. So you have come today with this amendment to redistribute poverty, which you yourself have caused. But the worst part is another. Here, together with Mr Alexiadis, you come at the very last moment, when the bill relating to something very important has been completed, because for the first time - you are legal, and you understand the importance and importance of the regulation brought by the Minister of Justice - a gap that our country has not covered for 15 years. So you're taking advantage of this session today to do what? To dismantle normal legislative function and establish a smuggling regime. That's what you're doing. And it also insults the institutions, it insults democracy, it offends us who are representatives of the Greek people, but I believe that you are primarily insulting us, who are an academic teacher, who you are a servant of justice, and above all you are one of those who should today apologise to the Greek people and not incur us, who, in trying to have institutional reverence for what is being done here today, are reacting when you bring us these amendments. If you respect this procedure, which, as you know best from me, expresses the people, because it is a direct manifestation of popular sovereignty, you should withdraw them. You should withdraw them as a last sample of your cooperation in the rules imposed on Parliament. Otherwise, I think that your current behaviour is a continuation of a series of actions, of which the Prime Minister has started with the imaginary move of the President-in-Office to initiate the process of revising the constitution outside Parliament, using as a decor this Parliament and not to come here to decide, as Article 110 requires, and indeed to have as a given Parliament's decision, which, according to that provision, is the only authority to decide on the need for revision. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Also, in the case of previous incidents, where the President of the Parliament himself had defined how the debate on the request we made would be organised, in order to set up a committee of inquiry to investigate the third of these memorandums, - which you yourself had requested to be investigated in the first and second place - he came to the point himself, in breach of his decision that the Chief of Police Response would close this debate, to give the floor, after the closure of the Chief of Officerial Response, to the Minister of Finance, in this sense, also downgrading the level and validity of the procedure. Today you're coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u319	All right, all right, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u320	I would like to say this now, Mr President. Mr Alexiadis, bring in some of the amendments that are poaching. And I'll tell you why. We are told, in one instance, that 'by decision of the Secretary-General for Income'. This House has decided that it is an independent body, namely that its decisions are not defined, predetermined and prevented by anyone. So you say, with this amendment, that it should be agreed that the Minister for Finance will have the approval of this decision. Is that the independence that has been voted on here and that you committed toward the partners that you will respect and respect? And secondly...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u321	As to what is the agreement?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u322	Then, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u323	I'll tell you. In order to be able, as you say, to derogate from any legislation in force and in particular without any competitive procedure, to delegate by direct delegation the supply of public goods. But that's not the worst part of it. The worst is that you are bringing us another amendment, at the very latest - so I say that it is illegalism and illegality, because that is, I repeat, the level and the morality of the new political system that you are establishing - and you say that you grant more than four hundred acres, without any consideration for the periphery of the Greek public, without - firstly - in this particular amendment having included a scorch, at least, to see what it is. Secondly, without clarifying whether this is the property of you yourself, with the laws you have voted on here, with the majority of you, the majority of the new political system, you have enslaved - the real estate and the movable property of the public - for ninety years. You did this, the new political system. The old had other sins. They've been judged. And the worst part of all is that you're not telling us this: is there a cavalry in it? Are there any other property items listed in the imperium? It is not privately owned by the public. After all, I don't think anyone can...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u324	Please, Mr. Javara.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u325	...to participate seriously in what is being done here, following these challenges, which I would ask you to withdraw.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u326	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u327	Let's bring them in next week, because we do recognize that you may feel urgent from somewhere. I believe that this urgency is not the communication of the decisions made yesterday and you did well to make them. But this House should be the regime in which democracy shines.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u328	Thank you, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u329	Mr President, I should not like to end by saying that we must be before the doors of establishing a regime where the House has become an annex to the government's desires. This is an anomaly for the city. This is a change in the culture, and that is what we are not going to collide.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u330	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u331	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u332	Minister, it is Mr Papatheodorou who has a secondary right, as is Mr Javarras and other colleagues. Here, Mr. Papatheodorou, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u333	Mr President, I will be brief, and I would like to address you for this very simple reason: I think that the process has been very smooth since this morning, and it has been moving with consensual spirit. The exchange of views was also relevant to what a dear colleague previously named 'the right to legislate'. What we have seen since the Minister got to the forefront to complete the process and move on to the vote was indeed a process of undermining the parliamentary work, a process which devalues - if you like - democratic morals, but also our intelligence. Five further amendments were tabled, three during the speech by the Minister. This is not only parliamentaryly unconscious, but an apology should be heard. It should be justified if not the late amendment, at least the fact that it could have come yesterday or in the morning. In any case, none of the things we have read does seem to be able to wait for the normal procedure. As far as I know, the Conference of Presidents has drawn up a plenary on Tuesday and Wednesday. So what we are saying and suggesting to you, Mr President, in order to preserve the smooth procedure and the parliamentary order, is that you take the initiative, as the ministers do not take it, so that these amendments can be debated Tuesday, two days later. Thus, there will also be no exodus for the parliamentary groups in dialogues which only make sense for the violation of the parliamentary order. Because that's the point. There's nothing else. Also, to see something very simple: because there is content in these specific amendments - content! - if we enter any debate, you understand - as the Chamber understands - that this content will be a crusade. Or here we go to discuss a number of issues that have - if you want - value or downgrade that value and we go to chicken battles that have no meaning. We therefore propose, Mr President, that all five should go to the bill on Tuesday. There is no reason to be discussed today. Not only is there no reason for this, but we will refuse to discuss it. So we call on you to take the decision so that the procedure can be dismantled and that the draft law can be passed smoothly by the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u334	Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u335	A precise question. Will there be a separate debate on the amendments or will we see them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u336	There's gonna be another conversation. But as you can see, the amendments were put on the table and Mr Javarras and Mr Papatheodorou, as Mr Javarras is right in saying that I cannot interfere with what you are going to say. However, I would like to tell you that on the subject of the amendments - as I said right from the outset - we will speak separately. You can talk then, of course, but you have the right to handle your word as you think.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u337	Thank you, Mr President. I will then be placed in relation to the amendments. To come to the bill. I think that our party's position is confirmed that this is a reactive, anti-democratic convention. It is directly related to the single area of freedom, security and justice which the European Union seeks to control all information systems that directly imposes on democratic rights and freedoms. So all parties from SYRIZA, the ANE, the New Democracy, the PASOK, the Potami, are moving on this axis, namely in a full agreement with these anti-grass-and-reaction contracts. From there on, because I had said in the theory that I will be placed on the penitentiary and counter-criminal policy provisions, let me dwell on two critical articles concerning the government's penitentiary policy, such as the extension of the provisions of Law No.4322/2015 on the conditional dismissal of detainees in Article 15 and the authorising provision of the reform measure of the socially beneficial work of detainees in Article 16, which, in our view, are fragmentary without actually addressing the problem. That is to say, what is dominating again is not satisfying the need to convict and reinstate offenders, but simply dissolve the stacked prisoners in the overcrowded penitentiaries. That is to say, the sweptard of previous governments, which have simply managed the problem of congestion and there has been no definitive solution. With regard to the implementation of the social benefits measure, because of its authorised nature, it is neither permanent nor time-limited and we think it will be left on paper. It always depends on the Minister concerned whether to implement this measure of social benefits. I mean, maybe he never applies it. An effective policy of penalisation and reintegration, especially for vulnerable categories such as minor immigrants and others, requires above all infrastructure and, indeed, serious infrastructure, social reintegration structures which in turn have the need for brave funding, which, of course, the Ministry and the government as a whole are not prepared to make available because of budgetary commitments in the European Union. Truly, how effective is it that you ask to get out of prisons as many prisoners, without, at the same time, supporting measures for the detainees, who are literally left with one allowance - and if this is also given - charity by the OAS and the disgracefulness of employers' grants programmes for the recruitment of detainees, when the finding of the investigation shows that the four out of five prisoners are retreating and returning to prisons? Prior to everything, the JRC believes that by taking prison decongestion measures, these measures must be accompanied by brave support for the detainees. To provide unemployment benefit for as long as they are unemployed, with full public and free medical care without insurance cover, to provide incentives for public work as an alternative to the creation of penalties, as well as to provide care for caregivers. From that point on, we said in the protagonist that everything related to ratification of the Convention and incorporation into Greek law, articles from 1 to 6, we are voting against them. In Articles 8 and 9 concerning the limitation and cessation of criminal prosecutions and minor offences, we agree that we shall vote 'yes' that is to say. We also agree with the legal additions made. In Articles 10, 11 and 12, we are voting 'at present'. In Article 11 and 12 in particular, we consider that these proposed rules concerning the Code of Lawyers may generally be discussed, but from there on, in Article 12, because it provides for a legislative committee to be set up to draw up these new codes, we have reservations and that is why we are voting'represent'. In Article 14, on the employment issues of penitentiary officials, we agree. On the external fortification of detention shops, we are voting'residents'. In order to regulate the threeteen, we are also voting'representations'. In what sense? Not that it's not right, but this is a mockery. It amends a law which is frozen, that is, it does not apply, which means that, with the amendment now being amended, it will never be implemented. From this point of view, therefore, it is a mockery. In Article 19 we say 'no'. We have serious reservations and objections. It concerns the Palermo Convention on the Protection of Witnesses in criminal matters and extends the number of Ministers, Foreign and Home Affairs involved. In Article 20, we are voting 'v.'. It establishes a discharge in respect of all civil and criminal liability of experts, members of the Council of Experts. We believe that this provision on the substance gives a white cheque, immunity, because this is what this is about, that is to say, to relieve the experts and the members of the advisory bodies of the "Greek Company of Participation and Property S.A." of any civil liability. In this respect, we are voting against it. In Article 22, for the expenditure which has been incurred over the past few years on water, irrigation, we shall vote'residents'. This is an emblematic and temporary solution. Yes, but there will still be a debt accumulation due to budgetary commitments. And who knows, of course, the debts not only concern water supply and irrigation, they will also be other debts associated with the overall operation of the stores. It also refers to the payment of these amounts to the vague future. In Article 23, in order to finish - which allows an exceptional appointment to the independent principles of teaching staff, university and technology, as well as research staff - we say 'no' in the sense that we do not understand why they need two positions both in the independent authorities and in the universities. Appoint. Put people in. But no duplicators are being created, not to say that this is likely to be a photographic device. These are in relation to the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u338	Thank you, Mr. Synthraki. I don't know if there's another rapporteur. I guess not. Look, a lot of what Mr Papatheodorou and other colleagues have said, I think they are actually responding. In other words, we had amendments while the Minister was speaking, and this creates a problem in the functioning of Parliament. On the other hand, there are the announcements made yesterday by the Prime Minister concerning sensitive social groups, which means that we need to prevent a number of deadlines. I'd like to beg...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u339	What are the deadlines, Mr President? We need to know, because if there are deadlines, we need to look at this differently.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u340	Mr. Javarra, if you're kind enough to have a dialogue as we should. I would like to ask the Ministers, firstly Mr Alexiadis and then Mr Katrugalos, if there are any amendments that can be withdrawn and come in a better time, or else for the amendments that they are insisting on being voted on today, to provide adequate explanations of the urgency of the character, because we must vote today for what reasons some of our fellow citizens are being favoured for, so that there is a clear crisis on the issue that has been created with regard to the last minute's amendments. Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u341	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in my position yesterday in the Legislation on the Smuggling of Tobacco Products I was placed on this issue. We are not proud of this process of legislating and the procedure for amendments. I said it in the clearest way yesterday, and I repeat it today. But the need for us to follow this process. With regard to the amendment on tobacco-smoke, i.e. the films on cigarette packets, it is indeed the typical case that we have something urgent. We didn't catch it yesterday. The Minister, Mr. Terence Quick, announced it in his speech and explained it in detail. We did not have time for this amendment to come yesterday. He's here today. It's urgent, because the Greek state is running out of films. We need to go to new film printing and we no longer want new film printing to be done by a private business. It is very clear here what we are saying that we want to assign it to the Bank of Greece. He's saying it very clearly inside. We don't think we should go...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u342	Why can't you bring it on Tuesday?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u343	Wait a minute. We're not going to...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u344	You should have predicted that the movies would end.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u345	All right, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u346	Mr. Javarra, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u347	Respect that I never interrupt anyone. I've heard everything here. I never interrupt anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u348	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u349	I'm finishing too fast. So I say that it is urgent to vote today. The other amendment on the Falitic Delta - I had to choose one of the two - is withdrawn, although it is very important because we grant public land to the region and public building to house the Port Authority of Symi. We'll bring her on Tuesday, though. It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u350	Mr Javarra's objections, of course, to the fullest extent of the amendment, with a drawing and others, I think that until it comes next time it can be covered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u351	For all this, we're not afraid to bring any clues. We'll bring all the evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u352	And that is what we are talking about, Mr Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u353	As far as the amendment is concerned, then, with a general number of 601 and a specialist 42, I would ask that it be voted on so that the Bank of Greece can start after a procedure with the Minister of Finance. What has been said about the GDR and the Minister of Finance has so far been the case with a law that had been passed in the past time rather on your own government. That's what's happening now. In other words, if they go to do so now, there is a need for a decision by the Secretary of State for Finance as to the amount. I would therefore ask that the amendment be voted on. The other amendment on the Falconic Delta is withdrawn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u354	Thank you, Mr Alexiadis, and to understand the need for withdrawal. The number of the amendment put to the vote what is and what do you withdraw, so that we can have a clear picture?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u355	I mentioned it, but I'll say it again. My amendment, and I ask you to vote on it, is the amendment with a general number of 601 and a special number 42. And the amendment that is withdrawn...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u356	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u357	Wait a minute, Mr. Palphie. I'll give you the floor right after.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u358	I want to ask something.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u359	First, the Minister must complete his proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u360	The amendment which I would ask you to vote on in the case of cigarette safety strips is the general number of 601 with a special number of 42, and the amendment I withdraw for the Falitic Delta is the general number 600 with a special number 41.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u361	Mr. Paphie, what do you want to ask?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u362	Minister, will you give them to the Bank of Greece to print them or to a private person?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u363	Until now, he was printed on a private person. We want this regime to stop and print on the Bank of Greece, which has special security systems.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u364	Write it down, let's vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u365	But he writes it, Mr. Javarra, in the paper, "The Bank of Greece".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u366	Regulatory, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u367	Thank you. Mr Katrugale, you have the floor to place yourself in the spirit I have begged you to see who is of an urgent nature and what can be done about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u368	That's right. Mr President, I agree with your proposal. I must also say that the positions of Mr Javarra and Mr Papatheodorou were political positions. I must also say that part of the criticism I have received from Mr Javarra. In this House, we do not yell at this House, in fact, we do not take the floor if the Bureau has not given it to us. The fact...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u369	It's for everyone. Unless the reason is not given.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u370	That's right. The fact that some of the New Democracy Members had spoken alone and yelled is an explanation but not an excuse. It is precisely because all sides need to safeguard the validity of the parliamentary procedure, because the only one who rejoices when Parliament has a crisis is the one that is missing and is not present at the moment, which is why I think I should say these words. But I have to go on. I will tell you why two of the amendments need to be debated now. The protection of the parliamentary procedure does not justify hypocrisy or demagogue. The word dishonesty, the tactical night, to have amendments not just late, but amendments which had to be avoided by public debate on them because dark people were benefiting from the conflict, are not concerned with this wing. In my opinion, too, demagogy and hypocrisy is essential to the substance of the amendments. However, let us take them from the outset: why have we brought the two amendments to the register and to the CSCE today? Both of these amendments have deadlines to be dealt with. As far as the ad, 1 August is concerned, with regard to the ECHR, we want the provision to be in force from 1 August so that the poorest of our fellow citizens, those who will benefit from this procedure, do not lose a month. I would also never bring personal amendments that would be of a contradictory nature, which would not have been a presumption of a general agreement between all sides. For the ad, the earlier provision that laid down the initial extension of the maintenance of the ad had been voted on by you as well. I think there would be a reasonable presumption that you would agree to extend it to allow both sides of employers and workers, what we are seeking to do in all collective negotiations, to be able to operate in the press, and to find effective funding for the EDPS. As for the ESS, for which I shall refer to the substance, you could criticise. Is it possible, however, that you would not vote for measures that relieve poor people? With regard to these two amendments, therefore, there was no possibility of any prediction, because the negotiations on the EDPS continued until the last few days and there was a hope of prosperity, as regards the CSCE, because the essential decisions were taken yesterday by the Governing Council.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u371	And why can't they come on Tuesday with a return from August 1st?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u372	In addition to the issue of retrospectiveness, there is also the question of pre-services. Well, the two reasons why we have speeded up the debate on these amendments are those. The third amendment, which is not an urgent one, namely the possibility of financing the Treasury of Deposits and Loans, will in fact withdraw it, because I think we should all show in this Chamber that we are respecting the parliamentary procedure and that, despite the tensions that may exist, we also respect its style. It is precisely because of respect for the style of the parliamentary procedure that I do not reply to Mr Fotella, because I obviously pay tribute to the so-called value they do not have. I would just remind you that Mr Fotellis, together with another MEP, the current Chief of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, was the only ones who considered unilateral action that the House should postpone its examination until the creditors were consulted on the re-appointment of the dismissals. Since then, I have had a given opinion on Mr. Foyla. If he praised me, I'd be worried. In my opinion, his death is a credit to me and as such I accept it. On the substance of the arrangements now. I think it's self-evident. We are also giving a chance to have a social resource that was abolished to be replaced by a consensual arrangement between employers and workers in the press. Our proposals, because there is a tripartite dialogue that is under way, are to extend the integration of the EDPS and to categories of workers who are not currently protected. However, this will be a matter for negotiation and, above all, the responsibility of the two sides. For the ESS, I believe that there is once again the main issue which I am counting on the conservative faction. They are not populists, because for many of them the very end of the word of the people creates some kind of allergic reaction. They are, however, demagogers and hypocrites in general terms about the social state, because the very nature of the client system, the way the patronage system operates, did not allow for the creation of a welfare state in Greece, similar to what we have in the western countries. And especially for EKT, his repeal had been announced by e-mail Hardouvelis and his abolition, as a measure that we could not recover under the forced compromise of July, was passed by both the New Democracy and by the PASOK and by the Potami to Law No.4336/2015 in the Memorandum Law. It has therefore come as a given evil in the negotiation of the insurance policy, which we have not had the opportunity to reject. What did we have as a political force on the Left that we are interested in and universality in having social regulations and special protection for the weaker? We had to replace this pre-emptive measure with another equivalent force, if possible, for the future, since the rescue of the CSCE itself was already excluded, was not the subject of negotiation. This general measure is the national pension, which is a much more comprehensive way of dealing with the social exclusion and poverty of the elderly, because it is given without control of resources. And you know very well that with the weaknesses of the control mechanisms in Greece, control of resources is an extremely precarious process. Also, it always corresponds by definition to the poverty line. Therefore, anyone who takes it is not subject to the risk of extreme poverty and impoverishment. But the fact that we have arranged for the future is not a comfort for the people who lost it today and will see the recalculation of their pensions after the end of 2018. That is why we have brought these measures, which we can bring today on the basis of the financial possibilities we have. These measures are two categories: they are permanent measures that last until the full replacement of the NRA from the full pension and the recalculation of all pensions, which are the full exemption from the medical expenses - an important thing for elderly people - and the extension of the provision of equal benefits for those with an invalidity of more than 80% and also the maintenance of the provision to one of the two households. There are also specific measures for this year - for the year we will see in total how the CSR will evolve - which are about not to be charged with 6% of the health contribution for those who had in the past more than 30 euros to provide CSR and also to provide a prepaid Solidarity Card with 30% of the loss that all those who received CSR from 115 euros or more. According to our calculations, this is covered by 50% to 70%, depending on the money they have received in the past, the loss of income of the beneficiaries and we will obviously continue to see to it that additional measures are found for them and for the other categories of our fellow people who have been impoverished and poorer, not by our own policies, but by the policies that have been implemented over the last five years. I conclude by saying that while respecting and appreciating the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, it cannot give us responsibility for the unemployment of 27%, while at least in our years at least it is falling. It cannot address us with responsibility for this complete impoverishment of the Greek society, which in reality was the result of neoliberal choices, which, from what I have heard at least from the Chief of New Democracy, accepts them. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] Gentlemen, the old political system collapsed, not mostly because of the economic crisis. It also collapsed because of the economic crisis, but mainly because of the crisis of credibility and because the Greek people, in fact, realised that they had a political system against it - let me not use the word 'broken' - which, like him, had no more in Western Europe. The restoration of political credibility, the restoration of the moral credibility of the political system, is a burden on all of us. And especially in the forthcoming revision of the Constitution, it must be the main stake. The reason why the Prime Minister asks for 'new re-population' is precisely because, after a crisis of such tension, we must have a political page and a re-start. We can guarantee this, as a force which, despite our weaknesses, despite the lack of governmental experience, at least we did not have a participation in the party to the interlocutory, does not bear on us the roots of the corruption of the old political system. This work, ladies and gentlemen, you don't want to, we'll get it done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u373	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u374	On the amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u375	The statements made by the Ministers and the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u376	Everybody's gonna talk in turn. Mr. Javarra, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u377	We do understand, when we are given the opportunity to understand the possibility on your part, Mr Ministers, and of course we are in favour of dialogue. So, Minister, I would also like you to hear some of my objections to what you have said, and you think that this is how you project the ideological positions of the space you represent in this Chamber. First of all, the welfare state, as you know better than I do, has nothing to do with the Left in terms of its historical origin. It is indeed the welfare received by the governments that ruled the world after the terrible and terrible economic crisis of '29. Started by the Welfare Act of Roosevelt, he went to Great Britain to Beveridge Plan and finally came to Greece not by governments that had the characteristic of progressiveity. And here is the second point which I must tell you, because I from a man like you do not want to hear inaccurate. We, New Democracy, are not a conservative party. Conservative groups may exist in other states. We are the liberal side of this place. We are the centre right, and as has been said by the statutes of this party, there is also a place where Konstantinos Karamanlis had the very great political acidity to establish after the association of Laikan and Liberals. And here is no question of addressing us in such a disgraceful way, showing us as conservatives. Where the state needs, where society and nation needs, we know how to be, and we have proved it to be, and progressive. If your Government was given the great opportunity to fight to keep the country in Europe, it was possible because some others, those who are now called conservatives, had taken care, when all your people and your ideological ancestors then said 'EEC and NATO the same union', they had this very progressive for that time oxidation to put us in Europe. And the third topic now: we do not disagree and will never oppose any provision to the vulnerable economic and social classes, even in economic crisis and misery. We are, however, obliged by the position of Officer Opposition - and we are doing so with vigour - to denounce that such manipulations, even if they end up giving these crumbs, do not bear any responsibility from that leap that a government must have in the face of this world, which first led him to poverty and then comes crying over the spilled food to show that it is popular. You remind me of this terrible phrase by someone who said that "the ones who took our eyes off us are accusing us today because we are not seeing". We shall therefore vote for this provision on the CSCE. I am pleased that you will withdraw the provision of the amendment which is not urgent, and I am delighted that Mr Alexiades, too, has made his choice. That is what I have to say and thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u378	Mr. Theocharopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u379	Minister, today - to say a little bit about the procedure and actually go - you have come and presented an amendment at noon, which had not been tabled. This is not only the case, it has nothing to do with the amendments tabled at night, as you said. This was not even submitted last night at the time of the final dentology of the Minister responsible, Mr Paradise. That's the reality. It is an amendment to which we have specifically criticised, not the substance of the facilities, but the substance of the abolition of the CSCE. I heard you talk about the substance. You said that the abolition of the CSCE decided in July in the negotiations. I do not remember, of course, in September that you announced in the election that you will abolish the EASA, I do not remember being in your programme that, on the basis of the decisions of July, you will abolish it. You even accused the Opposition of voting for the August agreement when you brought it here and you did not have the majority and the country would come out outside the Eurozone. That's the reality. Yesterday the Prime Minister said in the public debate a few things and you tabled an amendment at the time of the Minister for Justice's dentistry. What I would like to say from the outset to you, Madam President, and Mr Paradise, and we are asking now, is that all the amendments, the five amendments tabled at the time of the final second reading, should not be accepted. They may not be accepted either by the Bureau or by the Minister. On Tuesday, of course, they should be discussed in detail in plenary. Retrospectively it can take effect from Monday, because we have heard that your problem is August 1st. But you have not explained to us why this amendment on the CSCE cannot apply retroactively since Monday. To be clear to you, even with these very few facilities that you bring, we intend to vote on them, although we would much more like the CSCE not to be abolished, as we have clearly said. But it will be abolished for four hundred thousand beneficiaries over the next two years and it has already been abolished for a hundred and eight thousand beneficiaries. But that has nothing to do with what we are discussing, in order to protect all of us - and I am referring now to the Members of SYRIZA - this process. Ladies and gentlemen, you should normally ask the Minister to table these five amendments on Tuesday in plenary. We are telling you in advance that even the CSCE - we have analysed our thinking - will vote on it. We should not, however, get this process straight, because we may have wanted to make counter-proposals to you on all these issues. They need to be studied. I don't understand what you're doing today. I really don't think it honors you. We must, even now, understand that discussing this amendment on Tuesday, is the right procedure at this time and so we can protect the procedure. Let me refer to another point, Madam President, which the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman has said. I wouldn't report, but I'll do it, because he said it in his final speech. The issue was raised yesterday in relation to the costs of the fifty-four people of the Prime Minister's escort. Mr Koutsoukos also pointed out this on behalf of the Democratic Alliance. I do not need to say much about this today. Today, an information note was published by the Government saying that the journey was sponsored by AEGEAN. That's new. I would therefore like to submit two facts in the Minutes. Code of Conduct for Members of the Government, Article 8: ‘The members of the Government do not accept gifts, hospitality or other benefits in the performance of their duties, unless they are common hospitality or small-value gifts given in accordance with the customary rules, when they represent the Greek Government in an official capacity. These gifts are entered in a list kept at the Prime Minister's office." I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mr Athanasios Theocharopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Article 4: ‘ Gifts, related benefits and benefits. Members must not accept gifts or benefits or other benefits of which the nature or financial value raises issues for the discriminatory exercise of their parliamentary duties. A financial value of more than EUR 200 shall be considered as a presumption and in accordance with international practice capable of raising issues of impartiality. Gifts of which the value is less than EUR 200 given as commemorative...’, etc. I do not go on with these issues, because they are not our concern. Below it says: "In the case of a written and surnamed reference, as in the case where a Member doubts the agent, the matter is dealt with by the Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics". I'm presenting it for the Minutes. You can understand that the issue of sponsorship, which has emerged today and to which the rapporteur of the Potamiu referred before, is very serious. This is where the government now needs to give concrete answers. Finally, in relation to today's bill, there was a consensual mood among all. We are, in fact, voting for the bill in principle, and we also have a positive attitude to the amendment. Even at the very latest, you are safeguarding Parliament's credibility. Do not proceed to the vote today. Bring it on Tuesday and it'll run on retrospectively since Monday. That's the situation. Don't do it. It does not really honor you or the procedure that has been followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u380	Mr Theoharoulou, with regard to the call you made to the Bureau, we do not have such a responsibility in the Rules of Procedure. Only the Minister has. Mr. Circas has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u381	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, starting with Mr Theocharopoulos' last mention, we see that, after the fiasco of the communication - the Potami, in this regard, if I remember correctly, but I am not sure and will not refer to the River - from the Opposition on the issue of visiting fifty-four government officials in Paros, there was an answer to this issue. And after the fiasco of this misinformation, we now have the issue raised by PASOK and the Democratic Partnership, Mr Theocharopoulos. I would like to say that we should stop this crescendo of populism and yellowism and not just discover issues for impressions. They've answered all this. This is not a three-day visit, as some people said until last night. And not to constantly discover such things. With regard to the CSCE, we welcome this legislative initiative and the immediate response from the government to correct this injustice. The Greek people know very well because of what political and what governments the country has dragged into this comitology. The Greek people know very well which policies and what governments led to the poverty and the margins of much of the Greek people. We took in September 2015 a fresh strong people's mandate to implement a difficult agreement but also to support and protect the socially weak. And this command we took from the Greek people, we kept it. We have been committed to keeping it and that is what we have done all the previous time, supporting the socially weak, stopping destruction, reconstructing the state and its institutions. Faithful to this mandate, SYRIZA, its parliamentary group, the government and the Prime Minister himself announced yesterday a very important package for the new social state that we are planning, visioning and implementing a step forward, for health, for social security, for extending the programme to tackle the humanitarian crisis, for the protection of work, for dealing with unemployment, for housing policy, for education. We close one of the wounds opened by the government of Samara - Venizelou. And the introduction of these compensatory measures to cut the ESS that has been unjustly cut - that is the truth - is an important protection zone for the weaker than the weaker ones and is part of our great effort and the Left Government to build this new social state. We know that society continues to face difficulties. Our aim, however, is to reconstruct the social state which was levelled at the period of governance of the former governments of Samara - Venizelos and before. So the new social state will rebuild it from the beginning, we will build it from the beginning, with the help of the Greek people, the Greek society. We, therefore, agree with the tabling of the amendment and welcome this great legislative initiative and correct an injustice that, as the ministers have said before, under no circumstances is SYRIZA to blame. We are here to restore and correct injustices. We move forward and we can look the Greek people in the eyes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u382	Here you go, Mr. Synergy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u383	Thank you, Madam President. I can only welcome this unacceptable process on behalf of the Communist Party of Greece. I am a Member of Parliament for a year and a half, and I have not met in the school boards or in the student clubs. This is not a threat. This is not a mistake. This is a conscious choice. In fact, the student has become better than the teacher, New Democracy, PASOK, previous governments that followed exactly the same procedures. The temple of democracy is this priesthood, which provides for Acts of Legislative Content, urgency of bills, amendments by chance, in any bill. We are supposed to be discussing a bill today on the ratification of a convention and it has finally evolved - we have said it too many times - to discuss other things, completely irrelevant provisions. Indeed, the Minister is coming at the last minute, that is, before we can even take a second and table amendments. Of course, the Minister came here and was placed without having tabled his amendment and without it being in Members' knowledge. These are unacceptable procedures. In any case, it is what I said to you, namely that it has become science from the government's point of view.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u384	Why do you say we make it as a science? That was something we didn't want to hide.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u385	I'll tell you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u386	We tell you why you do it every time. That's science.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u387	Apart from continuing doing so, you do so in very critical cases. In other words, the bill is yours, for example, a mockery. In other words, you removed the CSCE and now you're coming out of it and you say, "To protect the people who lost their money." People have lost their money, because you have removed them in collaboration with the New Democracy, the PASOK and five parties here, voting for a memorandum and implementing this anti-Fraud and Anti-Fraud policy. You know, you want to train the people to accept these few, that is to say, tell you and thank you for even giving them a minimum of medical care. You want to say thank you? In other words, you have borne them with taxes, with HISPIA, you have changed their lights literally and you come and say, "Children, okay, that was our commitment." In other words, we have to tell you that you are relieved of the anti-grass responsibilities and applaud you for the crumbs you give the people. Hey, no! We're not doing that! In other words, we are not going to do this in the sense that we do not want the working class, the poor people's strata to accept this barbarity and to see misery as a necessary evil, as well as taking away from the many who have been poorly impoverished and giving them to the impoverished. We will not accept this logic in any way, from this point of view, in the amendment tabled by us. We will also vote'representations' in the amendment on the lifting of enforcement acts of the Elefsina Shipyards. We had also voted in a previous arrangement. In any case, let this end, it has been discussed here again, it comes again with amendment, etc. This is in the context of the 'alum' that is happening. With regard to Amendment No 601 and number 42, we say 'yes' after the clarification that the printing of special tobacco tax strips will be given to the Bank of Greece. For Amendment No 602/43, we shall shortly be reluctant to tell you our position if the President can give us the opportunity. In Amendment No 593/36, which is a technical provision concerning the amendment of the Code of Civil Procedure, we say 'yes'. In Amendment No 594/37, which amends the Rules of Procedure on the avoidance of the imposition of temporary detention of persons for disability purposes, we say'residents'. We are not opposed to an increase in the disability rate, but it is wrong. We've said this in bill 4322/2015. That is to say, it is part of the logic of artificial decongestion. It's an emblematic process. In Amendment No 595/38, which deals with the Code of Lawyers, we say'represents'. Also, in Amendment No 596/39 we say 'no'. It is the provision of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on social structures. Our opinion has been expressed too many times. You have degraded these social structures literally. You have dismantled them on your own responsibility and on your own behalf and on the previous governments. We believe that these social structures must be the sole responsibility of the state, they must be generously financed. It is precarious to finance them through the ESDP through other European programmes. In fact, there must be permanent, stable staff, with full pensions and insurance rights and not in a farce, because that is what this is all about. All these forms of flexible labour relations, from the five months, the two-month contracts, the eight months, the block and the others, have led workers, in fact, to the conditions of the galaxy. At the same time, you speak of a social state. If that's possible! This is where one must laugh. I mean, she must be crying and laughing at the same time. We don't know what to do. Should we cry or laugh? Social state. That's it! In crisis conditions of capitalism, which you really have to give him one to fall into the cliff, SYRIZA comes in and gives him the help. That's what you're doing. Well done!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u388	Mr Balommenakis, rapporteur of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u389	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the moderate behaviour shown by the two ministers who have chosen to keep the urgency only, obliges all of us to take another approach to this issue and, in particular, obliges the opposition to come into effect. I think that there is no place now, at the present time, criticism and even so acutely about the press. You have your excuses. We have also heard some explanations from the Ministers. At the moment I think that each of the opposition should be questioned with the substance. It seemed to me that they were not placed, at least those who have spoken so far, if, for example, the measures of the CSCE are useful if they are what the government can take at the present juncture or if something else could be taken. I think that would be the essence of a controversy. Our view is that the parliamentary representative, Mr Tsirkas, also expressed it, and I had said a few things in fact - that what the government can do at this time is done with full responsibility, with full openness, aiming at slowly closing the reconstruction, redefinition of the social state. We don't want to talk big talk. It's what we can do. And you can be certain that the Greek people know the truthfulness of the government and they can appreciate whether that, in the present circumstances, is what we can give. I say that for the side of the JRC, which criticizes us. Because, of course, I like, as everyone likes, the ideology of politics, but the working class, the pensioners asked them if they wanted this? Are they underestimating them so much that they don't know if they have a criterion for anything else to be given? Of course it did. Of course, we're going through a ravine, from a barbecue, as you would like to say. You see the hand that the government is spreading and says 'I can now give, give and try and continue'. I think that's how you should be. And with that logic, I believe, and I would also ask the Census if it now takes the floor - which will be taken by Mrs Keramos - to put forth as to whether they want these measures, apart from the verbal controversy. They want them? Yes or no? I think that's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u390	That's what we said! What else can we say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u391	Here, Mr. Lightla, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u392	Madam President, today is the day with the best omens. I personally congratulated Mr Paradoxopoulos, because he showed both the committees and today the mood for real political debate. At first I had reserved, and I was really undecided as to whether I should vote the bill in the first place. This is not because I do not agree with the ratification of the directive, but because I consider it unacceptable that other bills should be subject to sanctions in general, which are actually 'three' all year round. Because we are talking here today about the other provisions. We're not talking about cyberspace. I think that's obvious from everyone. So we had the best attitudes. Now Mr. Katrugalos is another thing, another joke. Mr. Katrugalos came here to insult us, threaten us, saying, I don't care how I bring them, but if you don't illegalize, if you don't vote today, you'll be responsible to the people. Mr Katrugalos also said that I, as a well-known German gospel in the previous period, wondered whether recruitment to the ERT is perhaps a unilateral action, which we will find in front of us. So I asked him in committee this: 'These recruitments to the ERT have been consulted or will we probably find them before us and will they tell us that this is a unilateral energy?' That's what's finally happened. I did not say that I was against recruitment. I just wondered if it could cause us trouble. However, the truth is - and we must say - that all these recruitments are not a pretext of the Minister or a great sport. All these recruitments that the Minister has done again concern young people with more knowledge. That's the truth. In conclusion, I would like to say to Mr Katrugalo something I've told him before. I hope you're a sick liar. But I'm afraid you're a liar.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u393	Here, Mr. Papatheodorou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u394	I would not speak, but I think that Mr SYRIZA's colleague has asked so kindly to put us on the ESS and on the way in which he came - something that concerns the procedure - but also on the substance of the matter. So, as it was heard earlier that we 'bads' were the ones who inherited the abolition of the CSCE to the government, I have to say - and I would like to put forward the relevant document - that there is no greater lie than that. Because before the first time the government of the "first time on the left", there had only been the e-mail Hardouvelis. And I read, Minister, in point 4: "The proposal for an agreement was to revise and redesign the EWRS framework, in order to vary quantitatively with its redefinition". "It has to - it continues - to be clear that the intention is to rationalise the CSCE, in order to really support the people with low pensions and not to abolish it." I read it to you from the text and I ask you to submit it to the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Therefore, the government that was abolished by the ECHR, as a consequence of its agreement with the lenders, was the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. She abolished it. The government that abolished the EUR 200,000 and comes and gives EUR 50,000 - when it gives it! - by this amendment is the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. And to make this clear, so that there is not all this tough corn, which has been repeated many times. In the question whether we would be in favour of either an amendment or a regulation that would give even a little money to these people who lost the EVS, the answer is not like your answer when the EVS was approved, when it was first adopted, that this money is money for cocoon. That's what SYRIZA said then, that it's a coupe a day to the workers. We will say that they need this and much more, because as you know - and I am ending with this, Madam President - the commitment of the Democratic Reconciliation is that the CSCE must come back in full, not in 1/4. I therefore conclude with this, and we will be placed on the amendments and the way they have been tabled, when we vote on them or not - we must say that it is also in a communication vacuum, because the whole world is discussing how Mr Tsipras' escort to Paros went. Because that was not what my colleague said earlier. We're not talking about the tweets yesterday or anything else. We are talking about how to fund the travel of the Prime Minister's escort. It's not bad. Incidentally, we should wish him "happy years", because I imagine that because of his birthday, the circle of people who accompanied him on this journey was raised. But from there on, there is a Code of Conduct for Members, which has recently been discussed, and there is at the same time a code for the members of the government that is being violated, that is an objective fact. So thank you, Madam President, for your tolerance and my denial. We will be placed on these amendments when they are discussed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u395	Here, Mrs. Kerameau, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u396	Thank you, Madam President. Minister - because, unfortunately, Mr Alexiadis has left - today I think it is a sad day for the parliamentary procedure. It is a sad day because - in order for the Greek people to listen - the parliamentary process to be completed, while the Minister, Mr. Paraskevilos, was actually closing the debate, he was coming'storm' of amendments, amendments of major importance, which concern the Greek people and for which the Civic Response would like to be placed, to study them, to speak with society, to speak with bodies, in order to take a position. Instead, it became what happened, this inconvenience. I welcome the fact that the ministers withdrew some of the amendments, not all of them, after our proposal. I really welcome that. I would like to say, however, the following thing about the way the government legislates. One of these amendments was that of smuggling tobacco. I would remind you that only yesterday, in this plenary part-session in the House, a bill on smuggling of tobacco came. It is therefore impressive that this amendment was not just tabled yesterday, which discussed this draft law in Parliament and comes in the next day, with a late-minute amendment, especially at the very last minute. I believe that this is declaring - and the Ministers will agree with me - the way in which the government is legislated, which I think we should all condemn. It has been mentioned by the SYRIZA rapporteur that the press is good, but we should actually get in. Mr. rapporteur, and the guy is a substance. For when these amendments come, which are fifty pages of text, in order to put them on the ground, we must look at them. I ask: How many Members of this House have they actually read these amendments? I'm afraid the answer is no one. Not one Member other than the Ministers has read the amendments. That is why the press is important, and that is why the guy is very often identified with the substance because it allows us to be placed on the substance. I would like to make it clear that I am overlooking all this because some amendments have indeed been withdrawn. I welcome that and I am very briefly entering into the substance. For tobacco products, I find myself in a difficult position because this amendment has been introduced, Madam President, at the last minute by the Minister responsible. We have to ask for a legislative improvement, but the Minister is not here again to discuss it. How are we going to discuss the amendments, Madam President, when the Minister responsible for tabling the amendment at the last minute, in contravention of the Rules of Procedure, has left and we cannot discuss it? I'm asking you. Tell me how. Where's the Minister responsible, Mr. Alexiadis?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u397	You're right at first. But he said he had a coma.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u398	Look, we want to vote on this amendment. We have a legislative improvement to ask for. We want to ask what it says in the explanatory statement, which is precisely that the Bank of Greece will be the only economic operator to make the printouts. To enter the text of the law. That is what we are asking for in order to vote on this amendment as well. Where is the Minister responsible for discussing this and to tell us whether or not he accepts this proposal in order to put us in place? We welcome the fact that some amendments have been withdrawn, but here we are faced with a systematic contempt for the process. This is where the amendment comes at the last minute and again it is not the Minister in charge here to discuss it. I do not know if you have a way, Madam President, to invite him, to pass this proposal on to him, this legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u399	We'll ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u400	I really appreciate it. I now come to the question of the CSCE. Minister, it is hypocritical to speak both of the Prime Minister and of you for a social state. The abolition of the ESS is a fact. Three hundred forty thousand low pensioners lose the EKRF by the end of 2017. The cuts are extended to dividends and to 35% of the equity funds, but also to supplementary pensions will be followed in two months from now with a loss of 20% to 30%. We have a reduction in the main pensions for all new pensioners from 10% to 30%. The recent law we voted on, yours, provides for an increase of 0.5% in the labour contributions in favour of the Single Assistance Insurance Fund retroactively as of June 1, 2016. From 1 August or no later than 1 September, 2.3 million private and public sector employees will be invited to contribute 0.5% of their remuneration to the EIB. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to see your tolerance, Madam President, given that I have not been second-guessed. Two hundred and sixty thousand pensioners will be invited to pay up to 40% of their supplementary pensions for the same reason. More than twenty-five thousand public pensioners have completely lost the widow's divide as of June 1, 2016 and eleven thousand pensioners will undergo reductions of up to 37%. With this in mind, Minister, it is hypocritical that you are talking about a social state. It is hypocritical that you are talking about strengthening the social state, because the social state which was, unfortunately, completely humiliated, has been completely undermined by the actions of this government. Because we have asked if we support the amendment to the CSCE, I will say that of course we support it. The people need to understand what this is all about. Mr Pafilis quite rightly said so. I don't remember the exact numbers Mr. Pallis mentioned, but what's the point? We've spent a hundred low-pensioners with the ESS, you've abolished those percentages, and now you're saying "take five". The five are 'flying'. And the loaves are good, so we support them, but hypocrisy has a limit, and that is why it is very simple. So in the middle of all these measures, if you wish, of the measures that society is experiencing very difficult, you are also coming and growing the Greek State further by recruiting three hundred or sixty permanent organic new posts, and you are also bringing an amendment that abolishes the limit on government expenditure for the people accompanying the Prime Minister and various other ministers. I will not go into the Paros debate, but I will say this: we have not heard of the government in substance because it has abolished this limit. I am not even talking about the sponsorship of AEGEAN, although this is a very serious issue that has been raised. Why was the limit abolished for the costs of those accompanying the Prime Minister and the Ministers? Why would these escort members stay at the same expensive hotels as high persons? What for? We have not heard anything from the government on this. But it is hypocrisy, Mr Ministers, to give these "false" which we are voting for, because of course it is in the interests of the people and it is better for the "false" than nothing, but it is hypocrisy to talk about a social state and it is hypocrisy, while you are cutting off so much of the Greek people's benefits, at the same time expanding the state expenditure and not providing any explanation. I should like to close, Mr President, by saying this: something has already been said about the procedure, which is very serious and which has not been given proper consideration, because it is precisely the subject of the amendments that has been raised. I asked the Minister on Friday why many of the other provisions, the relevant provisions of the bill, the criminal provisions, the provisions that eliminate the criminal offence, which he sees as a penalty, were not put into public consultation. Neither too little nor too much, Minister - and you will correct me if I am wrong - you said that the legislative procedure is now heavy and that we are led by DISTRIBUTION - I think that you meant consultation - in a slow piece of legislation. Mr Minister, to understand, do you think it is normal that only a few articles were put into public consultation rather than others? Do you consider it normal not to place all the articles in public consultation? And if so, recommend a change in public consultation. However, once the consultation process is in place, I find it unacceptable and I am even surprised by your reply that it is normal and that we are not delayed or too much to put articles in the public consultation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u401	Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u402	I'll start with Mrs. Keramea's conversation. Hypocrisy and populism! The amendment after both the New Democracy and the PASOK and the River, why have you ruined the world? I don't understand. Here we show the political culture each of us. It was a bad time, really. Mr. Katrugalos came in, gave explanations, clarifications, and you insist not in fact, but in the press. In this respect: are you voting on the amendment? 'Yes, we are voting on it.' So why are you throwing the ball in the rig on the trips? At the moment, when did the amendment have to come? September? Yesterday this amendment was announced by the Prime Minister. He had to come to the House as soon as possible. You say it's crumbs. You, gentlemen, for what you have cut off - the ESS was cut out a month ago and with the vote of many, two hundred and twenty-two Members - so many years have you brought equivalents? This has become a good start for the social rule of law and you blame us for it? I think, Madam President, that it is very clear that opposition is taking advantage of some formal mistakes and avoids seeing the substance. The amendment to the ESS is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u403	Mr. Pachilis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u404	Now I will not repeat the procedure here. I'll just talk logically. Get together, organize and solve them. Why couldn't the amendment come here in the morning, even at the last minute or at 13 noon or at 14 noon? We have wasted time infinitely and have created acidity at the expense of the real debate. And here's the point now. I would say 'depressive' in general, ideological. Literally down! And answer Mr Javarra first of all about the welfare state. The welfare state, Mr. Javarra, was built with blood, struggles, conflicts. Having defended you, the conservative and social democratic governments were kicking the labour movement. They didn't give anything. When did they have to give? First, under the pressure of the People's Movement. More important? After the October revolution, when these were enshrined in the young Soviet Union at that time. Don't move your head, read history. Your governments were doing three measures for those who asked for eight hours and for social security, and I mean your political ancestors.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u405	You must address the President, not me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u406	Did you hear me say a name?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u407	You are not allowed to address a colleague. I'm telling you, because you're going to challenge me to answer you, and you don't have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u408	I'm responding to how the welfare state happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u409	Are we going to make a lecture on this? Leave it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u410	Okay, that's right, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u411	So please. Say what you have to say. What I know is my business.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u412	Mr. Javarra, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u413	That's how the welfare state was created. No one gave it away. I repeat, it was the result of hard, bloody struggles and we will go to Greece if you want to see what has happened, but it's not the time, because I don't have time. It was also pressure from the labour and communist movement and from the October Revolution which, from the beginning, established universal, social security, public free education, health, work for all and many other things. It was also obliged for other reasons objectively to replace the labour force. We see each other as a whole. Conditions had changed and something had to be given so that modern slaves, that is, workers, can be produced for bosses. That's how the welfare state was given. When did he start dismantling? When the association of powers changed. In other words, the world labour movement has retreated, when the Soviet Union has been overthrown and all of this. They took it back for other reasons. Not just for them, but for objective reasons. It's not the time to explain it. Secondly, 'Why do we have this mess here?' He says the Minister. Because of interactivity and corruption. And what about Europe? How many cuts have been made in the so-called'social state' in the European Union since 1990? Infinite, unblemished, unbelievable. So what? You're a reader. What do you think? That there is no corruption and complication in European countries, the western ones, as you say? What are you talking about? So when SIEMENS buys, when it gives money, a hundred and twenty countries, what is it? Only the one who gets it is corrupt? He's the one who's giving it up, isn't he? What is it? Corruption and complexity are objective within the system. Now, are you acquitted that we're some kind of exception and the others are good? Do you want me to say what is going on in the European Parliament for the very short time I was there? What is going on with European governments? What a scandal that's minimal! - Have they come out in the light of publicity? So, what are you defending? This European Union and this Western culture? This, in our view, is something different. Finally, he says, 'the government gives what it can'. Who determines it? What does "may" mean? Is there an unstoppable wealth in Greece? There's been all the previous years and there's still been today? Yes or no? Tell us how much you got from them. Who pays all the time? Isn't the worker paying? People's mattresses don't pay? They're taking. Don't you have any money? How do you give them subsidies, five, ten, twenty million with development laws and everything else? Isn't that money? Who produced this money? Didn't the working class and people produce them all? And now you get to the point where you're selling him and charity with 35 and 50 euros a month to go shopping in the supermarket? Are we serious? Is that what you've been saying in the past few years? But you were saying. I have not heard a government since I remember myself saying 'all we can'. One didn't say we could do more. That is what we can do, and that is what we are giving growth and the crisis. Let's go to the issue now. We vote 'at present' for the ESS, not because we do not agree on these measures, but because we want much more. To come back as it was. What kind of alchemy is that all the time? That is why we are voting 'at present'. It does not mean that we do not agree to give up these crumbs at all. It's less than crumbs. But now there's a boulder business. It's personal too. So you say that we with national pensions compensate for the loss of EKRF. Is that right? By 2018. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from Since 2018, will those who received NSAs receive a national pension? And what's that national pension? This is where you literally present the day. How much is the national pension? Three hundred sixty so. When? When you can give it. When the state can give it. And the rest of what is it? Depending on what contributions you pay. In at least forty years, at least, continuous work for the workers to get a pension not of the ones they took before. These mathematics we can't understand. The General Accounting Office of the State says that by 2019, pension losses will be 6,016 billion plus 2,218 billion new charges for the current insured. How can you now say that you are maintaining pensions at the same level as the Prime Minister - and you are giving him the information - that we are giving 823 million? What you'll get them is ten times. That's exactly how it's done all the way. What do you mean to say that you will give pensions back to the levels that they have been, on the basis of what the workers have paid for all these years? And they haven't only paid their own participation. Tripartite financing is a part of goodwill, whether from the state or from the employer or from the employee himself. So, at least, change your argument, as well as the argument about the rebuilding of the social state. Is it possible to say such things today, when you are committed to the memorandum and cut off from education, from health, from culture, from sport, from military to military, from everywhere? Everywhere you are curtailing and saying 'we are building the social state'. How do you rebuild it, cut it down? It says "we found it a ruin". Yes, it was a ruin. You kick the last stones. That's the story now. Stop, at least, this propaganda fraud against the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u414	Mr. Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u415	Madam President, the rapporteur for the Independent Greeks and the SYRIZA rapporteur have wondered what the substance is. Is the substance not the trivialisation of parliamentary procedures? Is the substance just the ESS? The substance is also the ESS, but it is also the culmination of parliamentary procedures. I do not understand why this practice of legislating on the part of the government is being applied. I do not understand why the government is plunging the climate in this Chamber on a number of occasions. Does it serve any specific purpose? Do you have something we ignore and do not know? You withdrew the amendments which you said were not urgent after the reactions of the anti-politics, in fact. Why did you bring them? Did you have anything to help? Couldn't you wait next week? That is precisely a question which we personally have not been able to answer. I had been placed as a parliamentary representative and, last but not least, as is the order of the parties within the House and since the rapporteurs of the other parties were also present. I have been absent from the Chamber for 20 minutes and when I came back I found five amendments on the table. I also found a card with eleven amendments, nine of which were late. Of these five amendments, basically, we find that there is no respect for the status of this man sitting in these chairs. Because, if there were respect, there would be no five amendments here. What greater proof of the imperfection of parliamentary procedures? Minister, is the government cutting off the CSCE, then relinquishing the opposition that actually says that he doesn't want this pocket? Because pocket money is what you're giving right now. We're not across the pocket, Minister, but they're pocket money. The Centro Association is faced with cutting off the CSCE, as is the rest of the opposition parties, and that is what we have to say. There you have brought us, however, to rejoice at the moment about these crumbs that we give to the Greek people. The word 'dream' - which I think the Minister said at the edge of his speech - should not be attributed to the opposition, but should be attributed to the legislative work of the government. Next week we have three more days where we can legislate until this House closes. The amendments which did not take the form of urgency could come next week. Today, Parliament does not stand up to requirements and does not, in fact, respond to the circumstances. You are blocking the citizens, gentlemen of the government, by mocking their representatives here in Parliament. The Centro Association does not in fact support these practices. Clearly, the ESS will support, clearly and will vote, and will vote for the amendment with the ad and the amendment on labels. However, we have said so again in the Conference of Presidents. This way of legislating must be stopped. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u416	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u417	Madam President, a question for the Minister to answer and address us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u418	And another placement? Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u419	Let's see what we're gonna vote for.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u420	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u421	I asked the Minister a question earlier about the amendment on the independent authorities. I asked you, firstly, why not all the independent authorities, and secondly whether there is any reason why Mr Pappas is signing, given that he does not have any competence for the independent authorities from what we know. If you can answer us, so that we can decide how to vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u422	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u423	Thank you. First of all, the amendment on the independent authorities begins with the principles laid down in the Constitution, which are specific and clear. For those not provided for in the Constitution, there are some doubts in some cases as to whether there is exactly the status of the independent authority for certain agencies, and that is why it can be done immediately thereafter. It seems to me that, otherwise, the choice by the Government of the signatory States has to do with whether their subject matter comes into contact with any point in the content of the regulation. I can't be any more detailed right now. On the point of order which has arisen. I think there was neither a Member nor a Minister who supported the procedural hearings. No one supports them. What I personally said, Mrs Keramea, is that the regular way of legislating today has become slower. I have said quite clearly, 'Well, it has become slower'. We also need the consultation as well as the 'GENERAL' we need. However, this slowness more often creates the need for some emergency and - if you want - marginal ways of legislating when we have been in contact with issues that are urgent and urgent. That is why the adoption of legislative acts has become more frequent and the existence of amendments which are late and which have not been studied or prepared in the way they are coming and also some cases where a regulation may not have been able to be found in the 'DENMARK'. I am not saying that all this is a wishful task. I really believe - as you are saying - that we need to realise that we now have a different way of legislating, at different speeds and to try and regulate ourselves so that we no longer have guilt about how we import legislation or vote on legislation here. Now, after all, I will say two issues which concern the law, which I have had the honour of supporting today. Mr. Synthraki, you know, it's not a question of artificial decongestion if a cell that has five people has three more. It is something that is very essential and I invite you to see it. I invite you to see the conditions in prisons. Of course any Member who wants to have a personal opinion on matters on which he is called upon at some point in this House to legislate. Finally, I would like to say that, on the issue of social work, the arrangements for the Minister to determine which areas are to be given, before and at the end of the day there is nothing new. Finally, because I feel the need to thank my advisers - because all my efforts to respond to your questions have been based on their work - and to say something else on the occasion. I understand the arrangement which wants advisers and colleagues to be in the same place, at the same hotel, in the same area in which a conference is held, because this cooperation, which is truly valuable, must be carried out in close proximity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u424	Mr. Catrugale, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u425	No, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u426	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights is adjourned: 'Following the Council of Europe Convention on Cyber Crime and its Additional Protocol, on the criminalisation of acts of racist and xenophobic nature, perpetrated through Computer Systems - Transfer to Greek law of Directive 2013/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on attacks on information systems and replacing Council Framework 2005/222/JHA, arrangements for penal and anti-crime policy and other provisions', and their vote will be taken separately. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u427	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u428	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u429	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u430	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u431	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u432	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u433	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u434	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u435	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: ‘Principle of the Council of Europe Convention on Cyber Crime and its Additional Protocol on the criminalisation of acts of a racist and xenophobic nature, committed through Computer Systems - Transfer to the Greek law of Directive 2013/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on attacks against information systems and the replacement of Council Framework 2005/222/JHA, arrangements of a penal and anti-criminal policy and other provisions’ was accepted in the first place by a majority. We are entering the motion for a resolution. Asked by this House: Can Article first be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u436	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u437	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u438	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u439	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u440	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u441	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u442	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u443	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u444	The first article was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House agree to the second paragraph, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u445	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u446	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u447	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u448	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u449	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u450	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u451	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u452	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u453	The second article, as amended by the Minister, was therefore accepted by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 3 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u454	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u455	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u456	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u457	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u458	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u459	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u460	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u461	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u462	The third paragraph of Article 3 was, therefore, accepted as it stands, by a majority. Does the House agree to Rule four, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u463	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u464	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u465	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u466	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u467	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u468	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u469	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u470	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u471	Article 4 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House agree to the fifth paragraph as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u472	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u473	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u474	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u475	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u476	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u477	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u478	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u479	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u480	The fifth paragraph of Article 5 was therefore accepted as being majority. Asked by this House: Can Article 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u481	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u482	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u483	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u484	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u485	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u486	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u487	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u488	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u489	The sixth paragraph of Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Asked by this House: Can Article 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u490	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u491	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u492	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u493	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u494	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u495	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u496	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u497	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u498	Article 7 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does the House agree to the eighth paragraph as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u499	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u500	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u501	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u502	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u503	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u504	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u505	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u506	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u507	The eighth paragraph of Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept Rule ninth, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u508	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u509	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u510	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u511	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u512	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u513	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u514	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u515	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u516	Article 9 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House agree to Rule 10, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u517	Madam President, we consider Article 10 to be positive, and there is only a question with the Court of First Instance in Thessaloniki. That is why we shall be voting on 'APPROVAL'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u518	Yes, sir. Does the House agree to Rule 10, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u519	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u520	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u521	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u522	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u523	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u524	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u525	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u526	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u527	Article 10 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Asked by this House: Is the article accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u528	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u529	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u530	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u531	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u532	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u533	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u534	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u535	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u536	Therefore, Article 11 was accepted as it is by a majority. Asked by this House: is Article twelfth accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u537	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u538	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u539	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u540	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u541	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u542	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u543	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u544	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u545	Article 12 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House agree to the third paragraph of Article 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u546	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u547	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u548	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u549	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u550	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u551	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u552	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u553	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u554	The third paragraph of Article 10 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Does the House agree that the fourth paragraph of Article 15 as it stands is acceptable?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u555	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u556	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u557	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u558	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u559	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u560	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u561	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u562	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u563	The fourth paragraph of Article 15 therefore was accepted as such, by a majority. Does the House agree to the fifth paragraph, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u564	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u565	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u566	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u567	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u568	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u569	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u570	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u571	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u572	The fifth paragraph, as amended by the Minister, was therefore accepted by a majority. Asked by this House: Can Article 10 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u573	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u574	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u575	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u576	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u577	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u578	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u579	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u580	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u581	The sixth paragraph of Article 10 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Asked by this House: Can Article 10 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u582	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u583	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u584	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u585	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u586	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u587	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u588	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u589	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u590	The second paragraph of Article 17 of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Communities has therefore been accepted as a majority. Does the House agree to the eighth paragraph as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u591	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u592	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u593	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u594	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u595	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u596	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u597	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u598	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u599	The eighth paragraph of Article 10 was therefore accepted as a majority. Asked by this House: is Article 10th to be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u600	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u601	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u602	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u603	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u604	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u605	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u606	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u607	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u608	The nineteenth paragraph was therefore accepted as a majority. Asked by this House: Is Article 20 accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u609	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u610	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u611	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u612	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u613	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u614	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u615	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u616	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u617	Article 20 was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Asked by this House: is Article 20 accepted first in its own right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u618	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u619	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u620	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u621	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u622	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u623	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u624	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u625	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u626	Article 20, first paragraph, was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Does the House agree to the second paragraph of Article 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u627	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u628	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u629	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u630	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u631	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u632	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u633	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u634	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u635	Article 20, second paragraph, was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Asked by this House: Can Article 20 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u636	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u637	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u638	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u639	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u640	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u641	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u642	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u643	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u644	Article 20, third and fourth, was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. We are entering the vote on the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u645	Madam President, I would like to say on the amendment under number 601 and a specialist 42 that, for the reason that we proposed to the Minister that, after withdrawing it, we shall vote 'PARA'. In the same way, we shall vote for the amendment, with a general number of 602 and a special number of 43.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u646	Is the amendment accepted under a general number 593 and a special number 36 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u647	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u648	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u649	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u650	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u651	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u652	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u653	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u654	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u655	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 593 and a special 36 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment under a general number 594 and a special 37, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u656	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u657	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u658	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u659	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u660	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u661	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u662	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u663	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u664	The amendment under number 594 and a special 37 were therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of 595 and a special number of 38 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u665	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u666	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u667	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u668	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u669	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u670	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u671	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u672	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u673	So the amendment under general number 595 and a special 38 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment acceptable under a general number of 596 and a special number of 39?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u674	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u675	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u676	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u677	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u678	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u679	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u680	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u681	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u682	So the amendment under general number 596 and a special 39 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 601 and a specific number of 42 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u683	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u684	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u685	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u686	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u687	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u688	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u689	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u690	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u691	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 601 and a special 42 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of 602 and a special number of 43 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u692	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u693	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u694	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u695	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u696	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u697	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u698	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u699	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u700	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 602 and a special 43 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 604 and a special number 45 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u701	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u702	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u703	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u704	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u705	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u706	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u707	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u708	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u709	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 604 and a special 45 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u710	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u711	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u712	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u713	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u714	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u715	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u716	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u717	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u718	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: ‘Standard of the Council of Europe Convention on Cyber Crime and its Additional Protocol on the criminalisation of acts of a racist and xenophobic nature, committed through Computer Systems - Transfer to Greek law of Directive 2013/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on attacks against information systems and the replacement of Council Framework 2005/222/JHA, arrangements of a penal and anti-criminal policy and other provisions’ was accepted in principle and on articles. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u719	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u720	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u721	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u722	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u723	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u724	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u725	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u726	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u727	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: ‘Principle of the Council of Europe Convention on Cyber Crime and its Additional Protocol on the criminalisation of acts of a racist and xenophobic nature, committed through Computer Systems - Transfer to Greek law in Directive 2013/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on attacks against information systems and the replacement of Council Framework Decision 2005/222/JHA, arrangements of a penal and anti-criminal policy and other provisions’, was accepted in a single debate on the principle, articles and the whole majority of the articles and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u728	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u729	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of reading the following communications to this House: The Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics shall submit its reports to the Prosecutor's requests for permission to prosecute Members of Parliament. In addition, the Standing Committees on Production and Trade and Public Administration, Public Order and Justice submit their report to the draft law of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism ‘Public works, supplies and services contracts (adaptation to Directives 2014/24/EU)’. Finally, the Ministers for Economy, Development and Tourism, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Foreign Affairs, Culture and Sport, Economics, Rural Development and Food, the Deputy Minister for Economy, Development and Tourism, as well as the Deputy Foreign Ministers, have tabled today, 28-7. -2016, draft law: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation in Tourism between the Ministry of Tourism of the Hellenic Republic and the Saudi Committee on Tourism and Antiquities in Saudi Arabia." It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-28-S1-commons.u730	With the consent of the House at 18.39 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 29 July 2016 at 10.00 hours, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
