ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in this House on Monday 27 June 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of its Rules of Procedure). (Parliament adopted 1. The question asked by MP Ioannina of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Meropis Jufis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the deletion of students from the OAED registers. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 1021/21-6-2016 of the New Democracy MP, Konstantinos Karagunis, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, about the creation of a hot spot in Palairo, the Municipality of Aktiou - Vonicas. 3. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food about the problems of the primary production of Crete from drought and high temperatures. 4. The question by No 1024/21-6-2016 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Christos Katsotis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on safeguarding the working and insurance rights of employees of the hotel "Athens Ledra". 5. The question under number 1013-17-2016 by MP I Thessaloniki of the Association of Centres Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the reduction of doses in the tuition fees of students of the Greek Open University for the academic year 2016-2017. B. PERSONS OF second-circuit Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of its Rules of Procedure). (Parliament adopted 1. The Question No 1022/21-6-2016 by MP Magnesia of the New Democracy Mr Christos Boukokouros to the Minister of National Defence on the creation of a hot spot in Portaria. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The F' Vice-President and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Cremastinos to the Minister of Health regarding the collapse of public health. 3. The question asked by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Ioannis Dellis, Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the problem of fertilizer workers in Kavala. 4. The current question by MP Chios of the New Democracy Mr Panagiotis (South) Mitaraki to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism concerning the protection of feta in European Union trade agreements. 5. The current question by MP Heraklion of New Democracy, Eleftherios Aygenakis to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism concerning the deterioration of the manufacturing sector in our country. 6. The question asked by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn by Elias Panagiotarou to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction about the "stability of Greek citizens from a well-known para-state anti-semitism website". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question asked by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance about the progress of the projects for the development of the former airport of Greece. 8.H by number 987/13-6-2016 a topical question by the Deputy Serres of New Democracy Mrs. Fotinis Arabatzis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the possibility of a 60% reduction in the pension of farmers, in accordance with Article 20 of the new insurance bill. 9. The current question by MP Heraklion of New Democracy, Eleftherios Aygenakis to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about the new delay in the construction of the new airport in Kastelli Crete. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance about measures to relieve the affected in the Municipality of Ierapetra from the destructive fire and the proclamation of the region as a fireman. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about the exclusion of Crete from the new roadmap of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The first question, under number 1020/21-6-2016, of the second question by MP I Piraeus of the New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou to the Minister for Maritime Affairs and the Island Policy, concerning the incident involving refugees on a cruise ship in Mytilini, will not be discussed due to an obstruction of the honourable Member in question. The fourth question, number 1018/21-6-2016, of the second question by MP Larissa of the Independent Greeks, Mr Vassilis Kossilis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning "the disastrous and unjust requirement of the IEDC for payment of a great and unjust fine to undertakings that had closed during the crisis and are now seeking to be activated", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the MEP. The first question by No 5364/13-2016 question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the Archaeological Museum of Mesaras, will not be discussed - and rightly so - because the Minister responsible, Mr. Baltas, is abroad. Athanasios Davakis, Member of the Commission. - (EL) Mr. Athanasios Davakis, Minister of Finance, on the amendment of Article 236 of Law No.4389/2016 on the suspension of the wage promotions of military personnel of the Armed Forces for the period 2017-2018, will not be discussed for the known reason, in the Ministry. Mr. Juliarakis would specifically reply. The third, with number 1012-17-2016, top-level question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the loss of subsidisation by young farmers and tenants of rural land, will not be discussed due to a workload of Minister Apostle. The seventh under number 994-14-2016 topical question by the MP Arcadias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Georgios Papaliou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the ‘Hadjigakis package’ and the decision of the European Court of Justice to recover the sum of 327 million. The euro as illegally paid to Greek farmers in 2008 and 2009 will not be discussed due to a workload of Minister Apostle. The fourth under number 1008/15-6-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the Athens Parliamentary Party of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the cancellation of the provisions abolishing the EASA and bringing about the loss of the income of thousands of pensioners, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The State Secretary for Labour would respond, Mr. Petropoulos. The eighth Question No 987/13-6-2016 topical question of the second parliamentary Senate of New Democracy Mr. Fotinis Arabatzis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the possibility of a 60% reduction in the pension of farmers, in accordance with Article 20 of the new insurance bill, will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the State Secretary Petersburg. Also, the sixth question under number 1015-17-2016, first question by MP Larissa of the Centroon Union, Georgios Katsasantonis, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the statements by the head of Eurogroup, Mr Dysselblum, on the non-viability of the Greek project, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister, Euklidis Tsakalotou, invoked a workload. The fifth, under number 1034/21-6-2016, a topical question by the Independent MEP, Mr. Efstathiou (Stathia) Panagoulis to the Minister of Finance, concerning the costs of the "representatives of the institutions" in the public sector, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister, Euklidis Tsakalotos, invoking a workload. The second question by number 1009/16-6-2016 of the Achaias MP of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Health, on the redundancies of the OKANA in Patras, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthi. Also, the tenth question under number 1003/14-6-2016 of a topical question by Piraeus II of the Communist Party of Greece. Diamonds Manolakos to the Minister of Health, on the operational problems at the Anticancer Hospital "METAXA", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Polakis, invoked a workload. The tenth third, with number 899/23-5-2016, a topical question by the New Democracy MP, Christos Boukorous, on the exclusion of Volos Hospital from the ESS programme, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health, Paul Polakis, invoking a workload. The fourteenth under number 708/28-3-2016, a topical question by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy, Christos Stakouras to the Minister of Health, on the question of dealing with the problems of the General Hospital of Lamia, will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Polakis, invoking a workload. The second question by MP Attica of the Democratic Integration PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Health, on the problems in the operation of the operating rooms of the General Elefsina Hospital of Thriasio, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Polakis, invoked a workload. The fifteenth, under number 956/7-6-2016, topical question of the second question of the MP Heraklion of the New Democracy, Eleftherios Aegenakis to the Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, concerning the new delay in the construction of the new airport in Kastelli, Crete, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the relevant Minister, Christos Spirtzi. The eleventh Question No 996/14-6-2016 by the Independent Member of the Achaias Parliamentary Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the reading of the Gospel on the day of the Holy Spirit in Agia Sophia, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Nicholas Kotzias. In this respect, of the fourteen topical questions which will not be discussed, the two are due to a blockade of colleagues, one due to the legitimate absence of the relevant Minister abroad and the other eleven on the grounds of 'due work'. I would like to inform you, as the story continues, that there was a lot of discussion yesterday at the Conference of Presidents on this subject and that there was agreed to make specific changes to the Rules of Procedure of this House on similar occasions. A proposal, which seems rather unanimous, is that once the Minister is absent, he will be OK, but in the second time the Minister will be given the right, even in the absence of the Minister, not least if it may change in the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, to develop his question, so that at least it can be made public and not lose its topicality.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u4	And when will this decision be made?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u5	I think that next week, Tuesday, if I am not mistaken, Mr Panagoulis, the plenary will approve the changes to the Rules of Procedure of the House. It is therefore a matter of two-three days for the changes I have told you. I told you one thing for information, because we almost unanimously agreed, but there may be others, which I do not know to tell you at the moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, because I am one of the questions I would like to take the floor for a moment, to explain something about the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u7	You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u8	Because in my case, the Minister does not come for the third time, and not for the second time, as you said before, I would like to say that the subject of the topical question, which in the end is not answered, was what the amendment on the suspension of the payroll of the active and retired personnel of the Armed Forces said. I was therefore asking Mr. Juliarakis, to whom the Minister of National Defence refers, specifically, to tell us which codes he mentioned enticingly...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u9	I remember because I was presiding and you said it in your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u10	That's right. In fact, the Minister of National Defence says these codes have been sent to Mr. Juliarakis, that the money has been secured...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u11	Yes, but don't develop the question now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u12	I am not developing, I am simply telling you why I was calling for Mr Juliarakis to come and be more accurate and more explanatory, to which the Minister of National Defence is always referred. Instead, Mr Juliarakis does not have the elementary democratic, if you like, sensitivity to cover the Minister and there is no answer to that. The Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras - I am closing with this, Mr President, I have not spoken for one minute - speaks about the Constitutional Review and about democratic areas. The first democratic section that must be made is to recommend to its ministers that they come to Parliament. And listen to the three main ministers, who have the ambition of responding to the National Representation, to carry it over. Let us begin, Ministers, the review of the respect of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u13	All right, Mr. Davaki. I would ask you to conclude, because by way of derogation I gave you the floor. For example, since Tuesday you will be able to do so legally, because you have now been placed outside the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u14	There is a great responsibility for the President of Parliament, and I would ask you, Mr Vice-President, to tell him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u15	But I've explained to you, Mr. Davaki, don't waste time now. A change that will definitely be made...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u16	We do not waste time, Mr President, because the ministers are ensuring that they do not come, as I said a moment ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Davakis, please get this over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u18	It's an unprecedented thing to do!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u19	What you have done now by way of derogation, with my own tolerance, of course,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u20	Is it the fault we're talking about? We're on top of it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Davakis, please very much! I repeat, what you have done now, with my tolerance, since Tuesday, I hope - not to say that I am sure - that all my colleagues will do so legally, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u22	I wish!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u23	That's what I wanted to say. I would also like to say to you - not to comfort you - that the same question has been postponed to me - for Mr Kim Glen - by Mr Tsakalotos seven times.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Panagulis at the end. Now the two Ministers are present and I can't waste any more time. Wait. I know what you're trying to say, too, you're right, but now we're moving on. The ninth question will be discussed under number 991/13-2016 in the second cycle of the F Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the need to strengthen the staff of the First Dodecanese Police Directorate. Mr Nikolaos Toskas will answer. Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, Minister, I am presenting the requests from the Police Dodecanese Associations to the Chief of Police and Mayor of Rhodes to the Minister, where we see that there is indeed a problem. [[At this point, MP and F Vice-Chairman of Parliament, Dimitrios Kremastinos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice.]] And the problem is that the Member does not show up to satisfy the trade union, if you like, request the police, but it is a problem of substance. The problem with which the mayor and the police associations are invoked is that the area has three major international airports, Rhodes, Karpathos and Kos. It is an entry gate from the ports and has seven gates of entry. It has two hot spots and it has a continuous flow of refugee flows and Roma in the summer, which actually make it impossible to run the police. On the other hand, they claim that in other areas there is more than double the number of policemen and mention the areas of Larissa, Evros, Ioannina and others. The big problem is, they say, that foreigners, that is, tourists, even four hours at airports to enter the country, which does very badly to tourism. So the demands they claim are serious. And these demands for their solution have been made to the best distribution. Therefore, the request to the Minister is to pass on all these requests to the Chief of Police, to make a better distribution of police personnel, because tourism is affected, after all. I remember that during the Cold War between the Soviet Union and Europe, in order to get into the airports, it took two hours and was uncomfortable all over the world. Now there's no airport waiting three to four hours, no European at least. And because our foreigners are mainly Europeans, see or enter a country that has been giving tests since the first moment negative for the country itself. So the demand is not a trade union - I repeat - it is essential and, if you like, a national one, that we reach this point, since we must serve the tourism that is the industry of the country that we all recognise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. After answering Mr Davakis that this government has shown its democratic sensitivity with the frequent presence of both the Prime Minister and the Ministers in Parliament, I will go to the point raised by Mr Kremastinos, whose anguish I understand, as I understand the anxiety and representatives in this area from all the tourist regions and especially, if you like, the regions of the Dodecanese, whose economy is mainly based on tourism. You know the difficulties. Unfortunately, in recent years, there have been reduced recruitments to the police. Migration needs absorb a large part of the effort and resources of the police. Now, this month there have been many transfers - nineteen - many distractions - six - to cover seasonal needs. I am talking about twenty police officers and sixty junior police officers in the Dodecanese region, namely the airport of Rhodes, sixteen police officers and thirty cadets, who either took over yesterday or take over today. Are you going to tell me guys? Pieces. Graduates may perform a service related to passport control. These days were trained and there is no need for any special experience for this purpose. You will allow me to say that the time you have mentioned is a little too much. Still, there's a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u29	They say it themselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u30	All over Greece, however, they are calling for additional police personnel. We're doing everything we can. As I told you, we're sending staff these days. We will look at whether we can save from other areas where the police are not so necessary at this time to help the islands' tourist effort in the Dodecanese. The airport of Rhodes was established in May, as in other international airports in the country, which help this effort. Police have been given further instructions to deal with and act not with bureaucratic perception, but on the basis of regulations and real needs, and we are in this direction. Unfortunately, we cannot excessively increase staff, but we are doing everything we can and as I have told you before in our private debate, we will look to improve the situation even more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance "Following Council Decision 2014/335/EU, Euratom on the system of the European Union's own resources". In addition, Evangelia Karakosta seeks permission to be absent abroad from 1 August to 7 August 2016 and from 21 August to 7 September 2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u32	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Minister, I should like to inform you that according to the information given to us by Mr Voutsis yesterday at the Conference of Presidents, the ministers are present in the legislative work. If you weren't, then the laws wouldn't be passed. You're present because it's a law you sign. But listen to what is happening with parliamentary scrutiny, according to the information given to us by Mr Voutsis yesterday, being too sad, not to say very angry. Mrs Konstantopoulou responded to 75% of the questions, about 80% of the questions, and 55% of the questions are answered at this meeting. So that is not the case, which you have said. These ministers are not present systematically, for example, against your backwardness, Mr Alexiades, who is always present, as is Mr Dritsa - at least it happens to be, when I am chairing - and you too. So leave the excuses for your colleagues. The situation is not good. Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, before I take the floor on the substance, I would also like to add, as a member of the Committee of Presidents, that I have proposed - and the President has accepted it - that we should necessarily come back to the old regime, where the Minister has one day and arranges his appointments so that he can avoid them on that day, and that he knows that on this day he will come to answer the questions that Members have put. So there is no problem, that there is a coma, that there is a workload, and all these stories, because they are often not believed. This is the tragic one, because there may be obstacles undeniably, but many times they are not believed. So every minister has to say that on this month's day I'll answer the questions, so the questions will go that day. So at least in the past, because what Mr Kaklamanis said, the President is right, that the rates were higher, but there was also a different way of working on this matter. Now on our point. Indeed, what the Minister said I understand, but I would ask the Chief of Police to give a list of the numbers they claim and the mayor and the officers of the Dodecanese that there is an unequal distribution, namely how many people are serving in Iannina, how many are serving in Larissa, how many are serving in Evros. Of course, these will be answered and no one is in the mood to lie to anyone, because if there are no policemen, it is a problem of finding police officers, but there is an unequal distribution and there is a request to be fairer, that is something that needs to be answered. So I think the Chief of Police should give them this list, let them know, so there will be no real discussion. Now, with regard to your efforts - and I do not question it - to increase the numbers, I would also ask you to make it more intense, because this region is indeed affected by other regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u34	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u35	Mr President, Mr Kremastine, first of all we must improve Parliament's functioning. You are much older than I and with huge experience in this area and I understand that you know what needs to be corrected. As far as the issue we are discussing is concerned, there is a general frustration among all regions. You know everyone's asking. But the limits are limited and the numbers are specific. Nevertheless, I'm going to instruct the Chief of Police to see what scope there is. And when I say that I will order, you know that we act quickly in these cases, so that we can see where police can pull out and help the tourist effort of the islands of Dodecanese. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u36	We move on to the sixth under number 942/3-6-2016 topical question by MP II of the Republic of New Democracy Mr. Savvas Anastasiades to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy on the strikes in the port of Thessaloniki. The Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, Mr. Theodores Dritsas, will answer. Mr Anastasiades, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. I am pleased, Minister, that you are here today to discuss the burning issue of the strike in the port of Thessaloniki. I would, of course, like, after three attempts and about a month's delay, my question had lost its topical character, namely that the strike had been solved at the port and that the situation of its operation was normal, but, unfortunately, the strike continues and the question retained its topical character. This strike, Minister, is to be added to a series of arrhythmias that created in the quarter of the closure of Idomenos in March 2015, the quarterly strikes of farmers at the beginning of the year and, of course, the current strike, which leads to too many shipping companies in adjacent competitive ports. Apart from that, however, the costs caused and caused by the operations of the region and of northern Greece are incalculable. Biotechnicians, importers, businessmen, maritime agents, customs agents, exporters have reached their limits. They cannot meet their obligations, lose customers, export, they cannot have raw materials for production. They are required to grant leave to their staff, because all the businesses in the area are inoperative, while some undertakings have suspended their operation. Of course, that can also lead to redundancies. You, Minister, ask yourself why so far you have not taken initiatives to solve this problem, and how do you intend to deal with it, given that the strike continues, in the well-known way, of the 40-strong strikes, in order to restore the normal functioning of the economy and of life in the region and in northern Greece?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u38	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u39	Mr Anastasiades, thank you for the question. It is still timely, unfortunately, I would say. That's right, you've spotted it. I'll apologize if you want. Indeed, in the past two times, it happened once to be a critical day, precisely for the progress of the strike and I had a commitment in this regard. The other concerned the commitments resulting from the large International Maritime Exhibition of the Poseidon. Therefore, it was a real coma. It was impossible to attend. However, in fact, the strike mobilisation in Thessaloniki and Piraeus, I hope, is declining. Already there are unions that have suspended the strike mobilisation, and I want to believe that all of the workers' associations in Piraeus and Thessaloniki will now choose a suspension of the mobilisations. And I say 'I want to believe' because I assure you that very systematically all this time, every day, there is a constant involvement of the government - and of the co-legislative ministries, not only of our Ministry - in the search for solutions, for the processing and formulation of proposals, which have justice and realism and perspective. You know, it's really weird when we're living. These relationships of confidence need to be reciprocated from all sides, because all the issues and especially these issues are linked to delicate balances and uncertainty about the future of Greek citizens. This reality creates the need for understanding. So our government, too, on this issue, with arguments, with consideration, claims me proposals - it really claims - to convince the person responsible for this issue as well. We are towards the end, and I think we are towards the end of a new beginning, which concerns both the port of Thessaloniki and the port of Piraeus. These two ports must operate with development goals, with dynamism - they have enormous advantages - but also with rules of understanding and justice, which, apart from a field of fair growth, as the Prime Minister has announced, social justice and labour security are prerequisites for development for Piraeus and Thessaloniki. I conclude by saying that we are fully aware of the consequences, the negative effects, which have suffered too many companies in northern Greece and Thessaloniki. It is precisely one of the arguments and the government towards the strikers that all the parameters in this direction cannot be taken into account. But there too, we really need to maintain understanding and unity. To a large extent this has been achieved by both the productive associations of northern Greece and Thessaloniki and by the administration of the Port Agency and by the workers and, of course, by the government. We understand all the consequences of a strike mobilisation. We all have to get out of this difficulty, so that we can all open new roads together, and the understanding must not be lost.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u40	Mr Anastasiades, here you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u41	Mr Minister, I think that I and those who are listening to us have not been enlightened by what you said. I believe that these issues are not solved with wish and, of course, understanding and justice and rights must be promoted in this debate. But not only do the strikers, whose anxiety we understand and understand. In fact, we were, on the eve of the New Democracy, the only ones who visited them to discuss. But, of course, they didn't want to talk, they wanted to create a show. We discussed the management of the PPA and the stakeholders. The workers, who work in the companies in Northern Greece - and are thousands - are in danger of losing their jobs, but also the entrepreneurs, who live with anguish to keep their businesses alive. I want to ask you a straight question, and I want a straight answer: why did the government, through the administration of the PPA, not exercise its rights of law in order to restore the functioning of the port? And why do you divide society and the people, forcing the institutions, the chambers of Greece to carry out this action, which is purely the duty and responsibility of the government? Why didn't you do it? Why? Of course, you need to sit down and talk. It's your responsibility. It is the responsibility of the Minister and the government to solve these problems on the one hand. It is your responsibility, however, to safeguard the rights of others. Do you know what this strike means, Minister? The port of Thessaloniki is fully dedicated. It is not going to pay back any burdens, and that is what our experience has shown us from the recent past. The economy, the business world, as well as the work in the region and in northern Greece, is also totally deceived. And you're talking to me now as a commentator, as a mere spectator. What actions did you take? What will it say 'I hope the strike will be resolved' or 'we are on the right track', or what will it say 'it will be resolved in the next few days'? Unless, according to your dear practice, you expect the problem to be solved by maturing, that is to say, the strikers, as in previous cases, and leave and go to their homes. This will, however, completely dismantle society and economy in the region. It's a huge responsibility for you. History will record this strike as the strike that denounced and zeroed the port of Thessaloniki and the economy and the business world in northern Greece, as well as you as an indifferent Minister for Social Problems. What are the real initiatives you have taken? Why don't you order the PPA administration to exercise legal powers, as it has a right? You know why the forty-seven strikes are taking place. Why are you a spectator on this? We understand the problems of workers and we are not against them. But it is your responsibility to solve them. You're the government. You have a responsibility. You have the duty. You have to solve these problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u42	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u43	Mr Anastasiades, I am sad that I have tried to set a complex discussion framework in depth. I invited you to participate in this in your speech, and you described this framework as a "broadcast" or "society" and a "monitoring simple viewer". Mr Anastasiades, on your own governments, workers in the port of Thessaloniki have worked for months. In Piraeus for three consecutive months. We can't play with a cheap outburst of opposition. We are also dealing with the issues of workers in the companies in Northern Greece and with the companies themselves very seriously. This is all a complex issue in a transitional period that changes the data of the operation of the ports of Piraeus and Thessaloniki and everyone has participated in this debate. The debate is still open in Thessaloniki, and this is another criticism of the workers' unions, because nothing has ended in Thessaloniki. They are all open even for the concession agreement and for all issues. And workers should have taken this into account much more widely, because the conditions for the tender have not yet been closed. And that's what it is. Because of all this complexity of the matter, which does not only concern these twenty days, but the future, because the port of Thessaloniki has a future and its dynamism in the future is based on the cooperation of all these actors, namely, workers, administration, business, government and government, I have called you in a complex approach and you tell me to take them to court.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u44	Give you a solution!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u45	In other words, the responsible government will cease to be responsible for its policy to deal with complex issues and try to compose controversy and find the solution to judge the strike illegal and abusive and to refer it to the courts for a solution. This is your dear method. Has he ever benefited anyone? Has Greece developed? Greece was destroyed by the decisions that judged the strikes illegal and abusive. He didn't benefit. Productivity did not develop, no new model of cooperation was created for the development of the country anywhere. Easily criticism, Mr Papoutsis, is something very common. Let us move on to more complex approaches and everyone has a role to play in this matter. Everyone has a role to play in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u46	If I'd read the next question, we'd talk about it together, because it's exactly the same. In any case, because Mr Kammenos is here at the outset, we will discuss the twelfth question under number 967-7-6-2016 for the second cycle of the Member of Parliament II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy regarding the strike of the port workers at the Port Authority of Piraeus (PA). Mr. Cammene, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u47	Thank you very much, Mr President. We could really discuss them together. Thank you very much, Mr Minister, for being present. My question has been older since the beginning of the month. However, because I have also followed the question of the New Democracy colleague and the Minister's reply, I have been covered in several points. Nevertheless, I will insist on the theme of Piraeus, not so much because of my localisation and election in this region as on the tourist track and a large commercial one. In Piraeus we had problems that were solved at night, which I know very well. Mrs Kundura and Mr Kundura have also been involved in some other issues. It was a very dangerous period because we risked losing thousands of tourists and having a negative balance in June in the arrivals of the cruise, which would have a direct impact on the city economy, but also on marketing and defamation of the country worldwide, since tourism is one of our main industries and we must protect it. There were trade issues in Piraeus from cement industries. I do not mention it in my question, but there were also car-industrial issues, because they had blocked cars that went to islands for rent and lost - if you like - and some of the cars that were blocked. The situation is well known. Minister, as long as days have elapsed, the question is up to date, but I know that at least in Piraeus there is an open debate from all sides on a solution not political but practical, professional, and protecting the rights of all workers at all. The question was how do you plan to solve the huge loss of revenue and what is the total damage - if we can say - for the state? But I insist it was at the beginning of the month. Now there's no harm because we solved the issue this weekend. There is a question as to whether payments are made to the PPA, if administrative staff are strike and if we have losses from the PPA due to the strike. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u48	Mr Minister, if you wish, only to reply to the new facts, because you have said so in the general context. However, you have your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u49	Obviously, Mr President. First of all, I would like to congratulate you, Mr Colleague, because it is not a matter of congratulating me, but once again, I would like to point out that, when dealing with one issue, you are involved in systematic and documenting, and that is very good. I cannot confirm all the information that your question has and raises, because I also have data, but it is not official, since the Port Authority of Piraeus, which is the official body, in order to record all these details, is not able to do so at this time because of the strike. However, in Piraeus too, the consequences of this strike mobilisation are very important, particularly in the area of automobilisation and transport at Car Terminal. There is more financial burden there and there are losses, but there are also some other products. The port in terms of shipping has not been affected at all. On the cruise now we really have a "wondermaker" - to put the word in introductorys, so that we don't idealize things - picture. However, despite the fact that the strike lasted for so many days, there were days, such as the previous Saturday, where within eighteen hours there were seven very large cruise ships and fourteen thousand travelers - passengers, abducting or departing from Piraeus. All this happened and the ships left Piraeus at their scheduled time, despite the strike, without using violence, without using anything else. This was achieved through the cooperation of the Port Body, the Port Authority of Piraeus, the companies and agents representing them, but also of the employees. Of course, workers on cruise ships themselves also played a major role, bearing a great deal of weight, beyond their usual work. In fact, I think that here - at least in this respect - the maturity with which workers at the port of Piraeus have dealt with the issues of the cruise. They respected the matter. A number of rules have been requested to ensure that they do not function 'abstract' - within or outside of the import - mechanisms. However, they themselves respected the real more comprehensive needs and especially the danger of suffering people, travellers, visitors in our country. In addition to the defamation of our own country, it is not right for people and especially older people to be troubled. This was defended by the workers, except for all other factors. What has been achieved through cooperation in a spirit of responsibility and goodwill. I have no evidence - and I shall end, Mr President - that there are PPA workers who, while they are working, are paid. Strikers are not rewarded. If some people have taken their regular leave, or I don't know what else, these are other issues. There's no question. However, the phenomenon of a worker declaring a striker and rewarding does not exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u50	Mr. Cammene, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u51	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I know the effort that has been made. I would like to congratulate - without concentrating as a government - on the great effort that has been made and at night, at least at weekends, because I was involved. It is so that, in other words, they got all the parties involved and gave a good faith solution, because there are also older people coming down from ships. One night we even had six thousand suitcases. They couldn't get them up. At some point he opened up the next terminal. We found a solution, and that's what's good. I conclude by saying that after yesterday's or today's results in Britain and the uncertainty it is already starting - I have taken the analyses from all the major banks in the world today - it is a difficult time for Great Britain. In what sense? It's a time of uncertainty. Greece must not, under any circumstances - and I call it Dimitris Kammenos and not as a Member - strengthen the uncertainty...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u52	In this House you speak as a Member. Outside the Chamber you speak as you wish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u53	All right, Mr. President. I'll say it as a Member. We must not increase uncertainty because, through democratic institutions, the democratic way and the dialogue that this government has imposed with the social groups, with entrepreneurs, with the political forces of the country, we must all agree on and go to a normality and stability, because we have no room to increase the uncertainty, let alone the tourist or commercial product, as much as it has to do with the gates of entry and exit. Fortunately, the issue of Idiom has also been resolved. In other words, Greece must at the moment come out of the map, not be concerned with us. I say so simply, because there is no room for anyone to deal with us again. I mean it in the good sense, and I mean it without saying 'yes' to everything, because we do not have that logic nor are we in this process. We have to be very careful. That is why I, Mr Minister, and also in Piraeus, where I speak as much as I can and with those who are talking about, the port workers, the trade union, the mayor of Piraeus, the businessmen and shipowners of the cruise ships. We all have to gather the statements, sit together at the table and find a solution for the good of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u54	Minister, you have the floor, although I think you've covered everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u55	I need a minute, Mr. President. I agree, Mr. Cammene, that's the way it is. What I mean to say is that too much of the strike and the problems that have occurred, the cruise has not been affected. We have systematic communication with all the companies. This transitional reality will not affect - I am optimistic about this - the course of the cruise, which is in a development process both for the port of Piraeus and for other ports in the country. I'm done with one thing. Next week we will be able to discuss the concessions for the port of Piraeus. Before workers demand it, it is a systematic effort - with the success of the government in the new landscape - to ensure stability and security in labour relations in the ports of Piraeus and Thessaloniki. This is a government choice and direction. Individual issues need to be resolved in order to achieve this, legal, practical, economic and much more. But that is the basic direction, and that is why I believe that the strikers, who are aware of governmental efforts, must show a broad spirit of goodwill, which will benefit all of us first and foremost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u56	We're moving on to the third section. Next is the first question under number 1016/21-6-2016 of the First Circuit of the Radical Left Coalition, Maria Triantafel to the Minister of Home and Administrative Reconstruction, on the need to deal directly with the water supply problem of the Aetolian Aetolakarnania. The Minister present will answer Mr Kurublis. Mrs Triantafel, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. In fact, following on from what my colleague said before about consolidating stability, I would like to say that we need to consolidate stability, but we also need conditions. It is a precondition for the public will to be heard. Respect for human and labour rights is such a precondition. Let us work on these safe conditions both within the country and in the European Union. Minister, thank you for coming. It is a matter that concerns our country, your country and my place, and it is a matter of time. We are talking about the water supply of the Municipal City of Messology, a great municipality. So what's going on? In fact, there is a ban on drinking, no water can be used, and the inhabitants in the Aetolic can't drink water or cook with it. It's a chronic problem. In fact, since 2008 there have been constant health bans from the health department, of course, and from the JHA. Of course, the submission of this question may be a little paradoxical, in that we know that the responsible body is the network operator, i.e. the municipality responsible. The competent JHA shall, in cooperation with the competent authorities, take such actions, in all necessary remedial or other changes, so that, by appropriate treatment, by removal of outbreaks of pollution, etc., we provide the citizens with water standards for human consumption. However, because the problem is also chronic because, despite the efforts of all the previous, but also of the current municipal authority and of the JHA, in line with the health service's recommendations, there is no result - I will say in my denture that there are various projects that have been done, as well as budgets for these projects - I thought that it should be first and foremost informed - which you know - and the Ministry and in some way involved in drawing up a draft permanent solution to this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u58	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u59	Good morning, Mr. President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed very interesting when matters of great value and substance come in Parliament, such as the issue of drinking water. Water is the quality of our lives and must always remain public good. That is why, as far as the revision of the Constitution is concerned, there is also the question of water, that is to say, that it should be guaranteed as a public asset. I am very pleased that my colleague has taken the initiative to raise a point which concerns me, Mr President, and, as you can see, my own country. Indeed, it is a matter of time, as has been rightly stressed by my colleague. It is worth trying to show, highlight and, finally, to find a solution. Of course, there is a question over all these years about what has happened with such an issue that really has to do with quality of life, in a region with a very important contribution to the development of the country, as well as a historic region, as is the Messolong and the Aitolian region. We have built with the first degree and second degree self-government, from the first moment, a well-preferred relationship of cooperation and trust. The molestations of parliament on these issues at times, like today's question, come to tie with a parallel effort made by the Ministry and with regional government and local government, in order to deal effectively, at last, this important issue of the region, which is really agitating the entire population. So I have to assure the House that this cooperation which gives Greece's fruits also has a positive effect here. The final agreement has been made with the District Minister, Mr Katsifara, who must say has shown absolute understanding. Although for the regional water programme, applications have reached twice as high a percentage as that available to the programme, the process of promoting and resolving the issue of the region concerned has been somewhat prioritised. I can therefore, from this position, from the discussions I have with the Regional Director, stress that it will be a priority in the allocation of the programme to finance this project, which, as far as I know, is an important project. They estimate that it can have a height of around 2 million euros. I therefore believe that it will finally be done, Mrs Triantafyllou, a serious project, not fragmented, as was done to date, which was spent too much money without any long-term effect. Therefore, the Municipality of Messologiu - Aetolikos and the Region, in collaboration with the Ministry, will have given a definitive, finally, solution to an issue that really degrades as long as the quality of life of the local residents is extended.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u60	Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'm really happy for the commitment. We are talking about an issue in an area such as Ioannina, which owns 1/3 of the waters of the whole country and where, apart from the Ioannina, I, since 2012, have been a Member, I see that there are too many issues and water supply, but also TWG - GEB issues in our region. It is an issue that we will discuss next time. However, I will get a little caught by what you said at the end, namely, indeed, in my prototype, that it has dealt with all the relevant services and all the previous municipal authorities. There were specific proposals for corrective actions and all that I said before. While there were specific protection measures, what you said was done. In other words, concrete protection measures were taken both to provide the source - sealed, works were carried out around it, etc. - However, this is still the case. In other words, the ban and even the water of other drilling in the surrounding area has not been lifted shows that it is not safe in an area and especially in that area, which is rich in water resources. There are, therefore, very great risks, indeed from chlorination, sometimes also from the contamination in the surrounding area and the source. I am very happy to say again that I accept what you are saying. I think it is necessary, and that is why there is also a question to the Ministry. Good cooperation, when it brings a tangible result, I think it has a real effect. I therefore believe that there should be the direction, the strategic objective of the permanent solution. I would like to point out that, during the last two - not this - the two previous municipal authorities have spent six hundred and seven hundred thousand euros on projects that are smaller or larger in the effort and, in any case, the pollution has been lifted and some projects have been carried out to seal the source, etc. So, finally, I say that it is important to go towards the permanent solution that will be chosen, which will be approved by the competent authorities, and I am pleased that you undertake to finance it in cooperation with the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u62	Mr Minister, before I give you the floor, because I, too, visited your country for a party event and raised the matter to me and listened with interest to your reply, now in secondary terms I would like you to tell us the timetable for the solution. Because you told us the cost, you told us where the money was going to be, but I didn't hear the timetable. We'd like to hear it. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u63	Mr President, the point is very correct because things are often said without a timetable. The assurance I can give to the Chamber after the consultation I have had with the Regional Director is that at the next direct meetings of the Regional Council, the work will be integrated. So we are very close to implementation, because these commitments are clear and leave no margin. But, Mr President, I would like to say that Aetolo-Carnania is an area considered the largest water tanker - let me be allowed to speak - in Central Europe. It has too many lakes, artificial or natural. In fact, Mr President, Ioannina is watering in Athens and with three hydroelectric dams it is powered by the national network. However, from these works and from this wealthy source, either the water supply of Athens through Evgenos or the strengthening of the national network through the hydroelectric works of Acheloos, Aetolokarnania has not seen any compensatory effect. I therefore believe that, at some point, the Greek Parliament - and the government, above all, as it is in the mind of the Ministry of Interior - must discuss some compensatory measures from such projects in various regions, as wealthy sources are exploited that really contribute to national wealth. Of these, there's got to be something left behind. It is not possible for Haitalo-Carnania to suffer from such issues, such as this and never to have been a serious programme concerning water utilization in the region, irrigation or water supply. On this occasion, therefore, I am speaking on this issue and I believe that all of us together - because I think these are issues which concern Parliament as much as they do on these issues - can find a common place to actually serve the issues that really touch citizens in a wide range of ways and concern the quality of their lives. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u64	We too, Mr. Curublis. As far as water is concerned, I personally agree, but on one condition. I don't want to see the H.N.A.D. in the superstition, as it was in the original list of the plan. The NSA has to stay out of the superstition. As a Member of Athens, I tell you that you are right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u65	You're an ether, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u66	Okay. It doesn't matter. The romantics in this House sometimes also need. The last question to the Minister present again, Mr Alexiadis, will be discussed. Therefore, the fifth time question of the first question of the Member of Parliament II of the Independent Greeks, Dimitrios Kammenos, will be discussed with the Minister of Finance, on the risk of easing 12 thousand cases of major tax evasion. Mr. Kammenos, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for coming again. An issue has arisen from relevant publications and communications that have come to my hands, which is extremely serious. On a case-by-case basis, let's say that they're in danger of deleting 12 thousand cases of tax evasion. The specific announcement made by the Workers' Association in the Public Financial Services of Attica - I will extend to my dentistry - draws attention to us as a government to the risk of deleting a total of thirty-six thousand cases, as there is no time nor personal. There was probably a controversy - let me say so - to transfer or transfer some of these tax evasion procedures or these dossiers to the General Secretariat of Incomes. We don't know what's going to happen and we'd like an update. The evidence I have is that even now we are going to decide to start monitoring these cases so as to avoid possible tax evasion, discharge, deletion of cases, we will not be able to serve more than a thousand. We should at least discuss this here today, to record and see what we are going to do. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] You are therefore asking, Minister, how do you intend to deal with the limitation of the twelve thousand cases of tax evasion? What is the level of the loss of revenue for the State if, as is apparent, cases are not controlled by the end of the year? What impact will this loss of revenue on citizens in tax evasion cases have on citizens? How will it be compensated? Are you planning to take immediate measures to protect the weak? Why has eight months been delayed by the legislation that would allow the transfer of cases to the General Secretariat of Revenue last year? When is it expected to be submitted? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u68	Here, Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank you, Mr Papoutsis, for giving us the opportunity to highlight a subject on which a great deal of misinformation has fallen, too. I'm tired, now, of evidence I submit to Parliament all the time to prove myself self-evident. But some people, I understand that because they cannot digest and respect the results of the poll and the will of the Greek people, they try in various ways, along the lines, to bring back myths, mysteries, mysteries, dragons and many other stories, What's the reality? It was decided to transfer the tax and customs powers from the ILO to the General Secretariat of Public Revenue. Some four thousand cases were brought, a thousand and ninety-six of them, on the basis of criteria set by the public prosecutor, because they were public prosecutor orders, and two thousand seven hundred and fifty other serious cases remain for a transfer of some twenty-five thousand cases, because the ILO no longer has tax and customs matters - this matter belongs exclusively to the GATT - so they must be transported there because they cannot be controlled in the ILO. Those who blame and say that the government is protecting the limitation forgetting to say what they have done so long when these cases are in danger. On 31-12-2016, some 12 thousand cases were recorded by the ILO, which had all five hundred and eleven auditors. If this government hadn't come, if we hadn't done this transfer of powers, how could five hundred auditors in 2016 leave all the other job aside and control 12 thousand cases that were being recorded? So, the ones who move our fingers for deletion must remember how we were led to rise the ILO with cases beyond its capabilities. Because many of these cases do not have the tax or customs interest, as evidenced, in relation to other cases, and they disorientate the ILO and the tax services from targeting large cases. We therefore took political responsibility and extended the limitation by one year. And they, who fight and say, "But why don't you, for an eight-month period, transfer the other twenty-five thousand cases?", let them answer! So the four thousand who were transferred from the ILO to the GDR were checked on all the other cases that the GDR has left behind and have not what the auditors have to do and are waiting for the twenty-five thousand cases? But misinformation, unfortunately, leads there. No, we have in the Ministry of Finance, unfortunately, limited control personnel. We have specific objectives to define. We have specific cases to check. We don't have fifty thousand auditors. We have nine thousand staff in the tax services, all kinds of staff. We don't have nine thousand auditors. And we have to prioritise cases and see which of them have the greatest political interest, at economic level, in terms of taxation. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Give me some time, Mr President. For example, we won't let the Lagard list be dropped in our hands. We're not gonna let the Borgians list fall. We're not going to follow what's happened in the past. I can assure you, therefore, that these four thousand cases have been transferred to the GATT, prioritised and controlled. Of the remaining twenty-five thousand cases, the provisions have been prepared and they will be directly transferred to the GATT, from which the GATT will choose which matters are of great importance, prioritise and decide which ones will be checked and which ones will not. Because if we go on to deal with the small and medium-sized business, we will leave the big one and the big one. From the information we submitted to the House on the New Democracy's topical question on 13-6-2016, it is very clear now that the tax mechanism is being directed. That's what bothers some people. The tax mechanism is aimed at large and very large assumptions. We understand that those who are talking about the dismantling of the ILO, about the destruction of the ILO, about all these things fantastic, are annoyed by the fact that the ILO recently has very great success in the field of drugs, unprecedented at European level. The IMO has very great success in controlling large car companies, for the public prosecutors' orders - please! - pending 2012. This ILO now put the finger "on the type of suns" and took the findings, as is the case with the checks it started yesterday and in the field of football. Those who are annoyed by it and who say about dissolution of the ILO, for one thing to be sure, will be much more disturbed in the near future.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u70	Minister, let me tell you that the honourable Member has invoked questions from a working party and that the questions raised were raised by a government MP.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u71	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u72	I do not understand who you suggest. The workers or the government MP?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u73	Mr President, I respect the workers. And I also respect the particular club, which I have also been President-in-Office of. Under no circumstances...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u74	I didn't want to go that far.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u75	I, Mr President, never chew my words, which may be political to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u76	I know that!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u77	But to know that other things are political controversy, that is, trade union confrontation and the evidence. The figures are specific.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u78	Okay, but there's no need for acidity. Here, Mr. Kammenos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. The President's point of view was important in order to have a debate outside the formality. But the standard of the case is this: I after your information - and I thank you for that, Minister - will put a question to the General Secretariat of Income to see what it is doing. Because, yes, I am a government MP, but here, as you know, we are at least three times a month, to check - in the good sense - government control over revenue and taxation, because it is what the Greek economy has been hurting for years. So I'm going to put the question there, to see from the four thousand cases what priority is, what will be collected if there is staff and many other issues. From your reply, Minister, it appears that the strategy of the Government, our own, the Ministry of Finance, and your position are as follows: He has chosen dossiers for economic and political reasons. You quite rightly said there would be no limitations - because they would have a very bad political impact - for Panamadas, Lagard, Broyans and for any other list there is. This is very important. So that's where we put a priority. At the same time, we should be collected. Let me remind colleagues that we have collected 176 million from the Lagard list, and the previous governments - unfortunately - only 26.2 million. But we must give priority to transferring the cases where we need to. And I don't say it in a bad way. Once it was decided to go to the GDR, to go there, so that we know who we're going to control. Because I may well have bad control over you, but this question had to be asked today, to see where we are. Because when we are chasing the citizen or anyone who is rich or poor in Greece, cases cannot be recorded with lawyers and with these evil ways that you have implied, which I shall say directly. For years, therefore, all cases have been going to the DUs and to special DUs, resulting in overloading the system and staff with files. Thus, there was no time and manner and many times the technical and technological adequacy of the officials as well as the spiritual adequacy of the cases. And what was the result? Except for the list, which became huge, no case was solved. This was a very good strategy, which we had in private businesses too. We loaded a department that didn't like too much work so that Leader or Manager wouldn't have time to do anything and tell him at the end of the year that you didn't do something and you didn't make a decision like a leader or a manager, and we had loaded him with a million items. We know him this Machiavean way of command! But since you know the job very well, because you have been in this system for thirty years, I would like us to resolve this so that there is justice for the officials as well. We can't have five hundred auditors. That is something we need to resolve. Either we have fewer cases, we'll make a choice and a choice of cases, or we'll increase the auditors. Not all things are done together, because at the end of the year we have to bring about what we control, whether preventively or on the job that needs to be done. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I conclude by saying that I will also be allowed by the employees of the club who take out the announcements to say that I do not know where all these announcements are coming from. I, too, believe the Minister, as I believe the communication. I would, however, like to avoid political doubts internally when we are dealing with the State's revenues, whether we collect them or not. If we want to collect them, it's the Ministry's responsibility. But I would also like the club to be a helper in this, not only to create impressions, but to sit on a table with the Minister and all of us to help, so that we can bring a solution to the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Alexiadis, you can control him and he always comes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u81	I know!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u82	But I have the impression - if I remember correctly - that with the new regime passed by the General Secretariat of Public Revenue we cannot control it. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u83	With regard to the reality and the data we have before us, Mr Papoutsis - because there can be too much ink on political assessments and on what should be done - I would like to say: On 13 June we submitted full data - to an exaggerated extent - to the House about what we did, about what happened in 2014, what happened in 2015 and 2016. And as I said, I have all the data and statistics I have in my office from time to time present it to the House, so that there is no thought that we are hiding data from this House. As far as the great debate on taxation is concerned, if we sell cases, if the cases go for limitations, if the revenue goes well, or anything else, I will present today for the Practical Document of the General Secretariat of Public Revenues 'Act of Regular Budget of May', where it is five months old. It is the definitive elements, not the provisional ones. And I'm putting this down for everything you hear and read on various websites - that's not what you're gonna read, you're gonna be sure - that the revenues are falling apart, we're not going well. Month May: Revenues in relation to target were 18.19% over. And this - be careful - at a time when tax capacity has not increased, has not increased the turnover on the market. So what do we do? We are doing our job properly and we are increasing the tax revenue from where we need to increase it. In tax reimbursements - because that is where we do not make the classic accounting trick keep the returns back - it was 40% above the target. Let's go to the five-month revenues. You can compare them to other five months, of other years, in the seasons of'success story' and in other times. Revenue is 4,72% above target and refunds are 11,87% above target. These are the full facts I shall be filing, so that there is no doubt about them. I will also submit a document from the Special Secretariat of the ILO - and Mr Christou - which states exactly what has happened with the cases, that there has been a complete record of the information systems - because of these thirty-six thousand cases that we were discussing, some were not even recorded in an information system, so that we can have a full picture - and how the transfer arrangement for other cases is being implemented in the GDR. I will also present to you a document from the Directorate-General for Audit, which describes exactly how the cases are chosen for inspection, as well as which of these cases concern old and modern years - because there is now a specific law - and another document from the Directorate for Planning and Evaluation of Control on all these issues. So, as we say, we should say it with evidence, not with appreciation and destructiveness. As far as the choice of cases is concerned - I have said it before, I will say it all the time, because we do not get tired - we do not interfere in directing who will be controlled. Whether gas or refineries are controlled, it is a political decision, the government will decide. However, what gasoline station and what refineries is a matter of services, that is, of the GATT. Whether to control the five-seven hotels or suffraged hotels and canteens is a political decision of the government. And the government says: "You will start the checks of the tourist season - which have been delayed, they should have started - from the exact entertainment spaces, from the five-star hotels and, if time is found, you will go to the canteens, Sulazidiki and ovens." The criteria for which assumptions will be checked, emerge from the independent GDR and with specific control criteria. Now - since it was said - what happened in the past? He sent an anonymous letter to the ILO Mr. Friends - I use his name, because he is an old friend and comrade -...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u84	Yeah, but don't wait five minutes! You've got one more minute!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u85	All right, Mr. President. ...in which he said that Alexiades had not declared the pool in his countryside - I have neither had a country house nor a pool - the IMO took it, it was passed by a committee, this committee created a whole file and instead the auditor was dealing with the big cases, dealing with such things, which are within these twenty-five thousand cases that will be transferred and prioritised. This story has to be over. To use the anonymous complaints, of course, when they have evidence and when they have evidence, but not to deal with these things, which often made it easier for us to feast the media...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u86	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u87	...publishers or political opponents. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u88	We conclude with the third with number 1023/21-6-2016 timely question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs on measures to meet the needs of teachers for the new school year. The Minister present, Mr Nikolaos Friends, will answer. Here, Mr. Delis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u89	It is the last thing, Mr President, but very important. Minister, governments are changing, but the scene is repeated every year and worse in the country's schools. When these open every September, apart from their chronic wounds to the infrastructure and, of course, after mergers, confusions, dismantlings, etc., on which the Ministry is progressing, as it is now, at this time, they are immediately found at the beginning of September, the enormous shortages of schools in teachers. These major needs of schools in teachers are gradually and never all covered by contracted teachers, which the Ministry is temporarily recruiting and not immediately, in various successive, slow-moving phases. Let us say here that these recruitments are progressing as far as February and March of each school year. Thousands are, then, every year, Minister, these contracted teachers with their unscrupulous working rights who live with the anguish of recruitment and who leave behind families and children are subjected to the trial of moving from region to region - every year and different - to substantially replace themselves. The consequences of this unacceptable tactic of all governments, and of your own, of course, are thousands of organic positions, are to be lost thousands of teaching hours from the beginning of the school year, it is to undermine the stability of the teaching relationship that has to be found in education, a pedagogical relationship whose stability is absolutely essential in sensitive categories such as infants, first grades of primary school, special education. Of course, there is also the insecurity and the labor perception of thousands of teachers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A little more time, Mr President. These are the results of the ongoing, Minister, for the last six years of undetermined education. And as far as we know, not for this year's school year, 2016-2017, appointings are provided, which, of course, together with the retirements of permanent teachers, create serious problems in schools, in short, the right of children of popular families to education. With the calculations of over twenty-two thousand alternates, who were hired this year, with the three thousand seven hundred gaps, which were never covered this year, we estimate that September, which will come, will find the schools with the twenty-seven thousand gaps. So we want to hear from you, Minister, what are you going to do about these gaps? Will you ensure all the necessary funds from the state budget to fill these gaps? We want you to commit to re-entering since 1 September and in one phase all the assistant teachers or contractors who worked this year. Will you ensure that all teachers, without conditions and conditions, join the unemployment fund? You will ensure, in order to teach the lessons of specialties from the corresponding scientific skills...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u90	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u91	I'm closing, Mr. President. We want to know if there's a teacher in every child who needs special parallel support. What are you going to do to prevent a child from staying outside the full - day school and kindergarten in which his family has applied for? What are you going to do to register all the preschools, because there is too much left over from public structures? And finally, what are you going to do with lab managers in your high schools and high schools? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, too. You will allow me to give a fellow counsel: I counted eleven questions. This is not a timely question, it is a timely question and, in order for the Minister to reply, he must speak half an hour. I'm talking about all of us. A topical question means one or two questions. Minister, you have the floor. You will of course have the tolerance, as Mr Delis had, to answer him as much as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, the question of education is very important and should not be treated with the usual opposition rhetoric. Of course, there is a need to recruit permanent teachers. And they were not created in these days, we inherited them. We also inherited a medium-term programme of the Samara and Venizelos governments, which created a rapid downsizing of public spending on education. We have snubbed this programme at 2.8% of GDP. If there were a government of Samaras - Venizelos, it would be 1.8% of GDP and you know what the impact on the functioning of schools and staff recruitment would be. I say this so that you are not so easy in the equation 'all the same'. We're not all the same. We do not want our students, as Mr Mitsotakis said, in schools, we do not want a school of tough competition, we do not want a school that will send out children with special needs. We have proved this with the small ones this year, the limited budgets that we have had at our disposal. We made choices. In special treatment for the first time in the years we have lived, we were recruited by contract teachers - unfortunately not permanent, I referred to this issue earlier - in order to fill gaps and give a response to the dual anguish of a sensitive social group that is children and parents of children with disabilities. It is obvious that they need recruitment of permanent staff in education and we have a programme for twenty-three-year-old appointments, starting in September 2017. We would like that to be done this year, but it has not been possible, because there has been open negotiations. And you know that there is the possibility of recruitment, of permanent appointment of civil servants. Now, what we have been able to do in relation to permanent staff is finally to resolve the question of teachers in the SAP 2008 competition, four hundred and fifty-six jobs in primary and secondary education, mainly in schools in the region. On the question of alternates, I repeat that without alternates, the school cannot function without thousands of alternates. It is obvious that no matter how many substitutes we take - not twenty-seven thousand you say, 30 thousand to take - if there are no serious retraining to educational staff, education will look like a bottomless stench. You're a teacher. Do you know from your experience or from information from your colleagues if we have areas with huge educator surpluses? Do you know if the regions next door have huge educational gaps? This irrationalism goes hand in hand with the survival of customer relations in the field of education. We are not going to contribute to the continuation of the history of the extractive industry and, indeed, out of sight. Since this year we have been determined to put an end to this reality. Secondly, it is obvious that the recruitment of thousands of alternates is subject to a special legislation. It's not permanent staff. Some of them - not all - have had constant and constant needs and have been for many years. For these alternates, it is clear that a particular provision is needed when the time of permanent appointments comes. But not for everyone. One who is a substitute for three, four, five years, why does he have to establish a special right against others in relation to his re-entry and the history of his permanent appointment? I don't want to demagog. I don't like getting into social civils, social automation. But such perceptions, in our view, could give rise to situations of social automation. He needs attention. It is obvious that we are not dismissing any teachers, because contracted teachers, substitutes are not permanent. The concept of dismissal depends on a permanent employment status. Why do you suddenly adopt this concept as a party? You've never called her so far. Now you've adopted it. I repeat what I said at the outset - the time of opposition rhetoric. Obviously, this year, we will get a number of deputies, which are necessary to operate the school of twenty thousand. Again, twenty thousand. These are the gaps that we can make today. All of them from the first day, September, in schools. It won't be lost for an hour. There'll be teachers and books everywhere in the school. What has been going on for some thirty years in education will be lost hours and months in some schools this year. We give the school the battle to work from day one, no problems, with all the teachers, with all the educational staff and his books.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u94	The rest in your dentistry, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u95	But I would like - and I will end with this - to tell you that school exists for the sake of children, for the sake of the right to education. Of course, it also meets the pressure for work. Second, though. Staff shall be selected on the basis of the educational needs identified on the basis of scientific educational criteria. It is not a question of being satisfied in general terms - I accept the demand for social work, because in the lists currently opened by the alternates, it is estimated to be about seven thousand applications for subsistence recruitment. We can't take that many. It's gonna be a choice. How do you make the choice? On what criteria? It has been heard earlier and in your question that we should give priority to special treatment. We're totally in agreement. This year, after ten years, for the first time, we are setting up hundreds of new branches of integration in special education. You were telling us - and you personally told your party - that we were going in the spring to the line of inclusion, that is to say not to get children into special treatment and to get them into a differentiated classroom because we wanted to abolish the integration departments. You're disgusted. You will soon be disproved in this propaganda. Now you're telling us we're doing this because we don't want to have parallel support. So, what does that mean? There'll be parallel support...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u96	Minister, you have to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u97	...which has parallel support to do with NSRF funding rather than the state budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u98	Minister, we're closing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u99	I'll be done. So there will be parallel support for those children who decide on CEDEFOP. The Ministry of Education does not decide on this matter. And I believe that from better staff management, there will also be a number of permanent staff directed towards parallel support. Finally, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u100	Look, you're talking eight minutes of the three that's time. You'll close now, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u101	I'm done, Mr. President. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u102	Not two minutes. We're closing now. You have a dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u103	Mr. President, I'm sorry. A little understanding. It is a big deal of the subject that my colleague has brought.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u104	I agree, but I cannot make it clear that I do not understand the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u105	I shall conclude, Mr President. Look at the Chamber to see what a violation of the Rules of Procedure means. There, look, not the ones we're talking about now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u106	I commented on that before you came.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u107	So let's move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u108	But that doesn't mean I'm going to leave everything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u109	Wait a minute. I'm finishing up and saying: This year, schools will be running from the first day, with all the credits that are needed. From day one! A small number of credits, because we are dealing with a lot of staff, tens of thousands of staff. We'll keep it on matters that have to do with pregnancy, etc. the training staff. Small number of credits. Last topic: Since this year, after some time a memorial, unfortunately, disaster in education, we will be opening up in time all the structures of education and formalism, which we are talking about now, and the informal, i.e. the IEK and the second chance schools, since the beginning of the year, since October. That's our choice. I repeat, with narrow budgets - people know it, we do not do miracles - we are building a reality on the basis of the perception that we want a school of quality and equality. We do not create excessive criticism against public school, which ultimately benefits those who want to drive away from public education, in favour of other interests, children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u110	You will have a relative tolerance, Mr Delis, because otherwise they have been answered, they have not been answered elsewhere. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u111	Thank you. First of all, Minister, we regret that you believe that our question has been made for reasons of opposition or that meets the needs of opposition tactics and rhetoric. Our question conveys the concerns that exist in the field of education and also concerns teachers and families, which many of them will find once again the schools to which their children will be taught, without teachers. You said you inherited a situation from the previous governments. That's right. You've been inherited, but you're building on this legacy. Let me not remind you of your vote, of the joint motion for a resolution tabled by the Third Memorandum, which contains very specific and for the first time predictions of education. One of the things you have been following and all the regulations you have made - fragments, but very methodically, we must recognise - is the famous compliance with the current financial conditions. You spoke about educational needs, which must be defined on the basis of scientific and pedagogical criteria. This is, of course, half the truth, because the other half is that the educational needs, as you yourself accepted, also obey the strict budgetary constraints. Really, the criterion by which a class of students can have twenty-five children and plus 10/%, can even go up to twenty-seven and twenty-eight, is a scientific criterion? We question it. We believe that there should be no classes of pupils with more than 20 children, and that, for kindergartens and for the small classes of primary school, there should be no more than fifteen. If we accept this scientific - pedagogical criterion, we will need not only the twenty-seven thousand teachers who needed last year and who, as you yourself admitted - for the seven thousand gaps I wanted to say - of the final twenty-three thousand people who worked last year, you estimate that they will work about twenty-thousand. That's what you said a moment ago. That is to say, the three thousand and seven hundred gaps that have existed and have not been covered and the pension gaps will certainly not be covered. In other words, we are talking about a number of five, six, seven thousand teachers who will not work next year, even as contractors, even as substitutes. That's only called a word. Dismissal. I spoke earlier about the steps you have taken, the methodical and carefully, with a single logic. First of all, there is the question of the accession departments, which is, of course, linked to parallel support for the logic of inclusion. We will see how things will be worked out, but the provision of this amendment tabled to the parallel programme, if I am not wrong, says that the Ministry's tactics will be, these children enter the normal classes and have teachers there. I would like to say that in the accession departments, very serious work has been done. It covered real needs, which were not all covered for all children, because many more children were the ones that needed the care of integration departments. You have brought the ministerial decision on the whole day, which you are setting terms and conditions, and you exclude children from applying for. You increased the number of children in kindergartens and took him to fourteen, never to say why. This means reducing the number of kindergartens they will need. You changed your high school schedule by ministerial decision, and that just means that we will have at least two to two thousand to three hundred less educators in high school, that is, half of the surrogates who have been hired. I spoke earlier about those in charge of the workshops. You are talking about education, Minister, but we must remind you here last year that the strengthening teaching, which is a minimum sample, if you like, of government interest in the most burdened categories of the people, has only been tasted for a month. Let us see what happens from time to time, although the narrow budgetary margins, as you said, do not allow for room for manoeuvre. Finally, there is another point here - of course, we have said so in the research law - in relation to the changes that you are promoting, the methodical although fragments. There is the explanatory statement in relation to the increase in the number of infants from seven to fourteen. You yourself write here, the law, that this regulation makes a major contribution to the rational distribution of educational staff and to cost savings. This is ultimately the guiding idea of all the arrangements and measures that you are promoting, in order to reduce the cost of education, to cost as little as possible to the state.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u112	Mr. Delis, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u113	We want, although you have answered, to insist once again that you commit that teachers who worked last year will be working this year.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u114	The Minister answered that. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u115	We also participate as individuals but mainly as a left-wing party in the agony of families and students for the early, well-functioning of the school. Once again, we assure the National Representation that unlike the lies that were heard two months ago and intended to undermine the public school and push parents to private education, this year the full-day school will work throughout Greece upgraded, for all the children who are interested and qualify under the law. We're not changing anything. The full-day school had a specific function and we upgrade it. We will have schools with new cognitive objects, not only in the large urban centres, and not just one in three, as has been the case so far. We'll have foreign language schools with computers from the first grade. We'll have schools with theatrical education and artistic lessons in these classes. I repeat that we will have schools, which will be with new cognitive objects throughout Greece and not just in the large urban centres. This is the full-day single-style school. At 13.15's the end of the hour - and not seven hours, because children can't be there within seven hours in non-functional buildings, with the sole argument as it seems to be having an hour of teaching more - not for the child but for the teacher. This logic of setting up programmes on the basis of educational needs as it is said - I do not support it, but it is said - is incorrect. Study programmes are defined on the basis of the educational needs of pupils. Another demagogic element has been heard, and I regret that your party is also joining this logic. I repeat that new educational objects are placed in all primary schools and not in one of three. But new educational objects doesn't mean there'll be specialties everywhere. Where and where? The teacher - and you're an instructor - can't he have the ability to do lessons like artistics, for example? Doesn't he have that possibility? Do you need specialty? You have invoked the unbreakable emotional and educational relationship between the child and the teacher. The gymnasticisation of the primary school indulging in the interests of the right to work various specialties and degrading the teacher's central role is an element that strengthens the child's emotional and pedagogical relationship with the teacher? What I am saying, you were also saying as a party, when Mrs Diamantopoulou came and for reasons of customer relations, with the European Union's money, which ends, she put specialisations in schools, not special lessons or new cognitive objects. Is it possible today to forget this catalytic criticism made by the educational movement and by the ILO and all the political parties in the field of education for the feasibility - and not useful - of this high school gymnastics? I could mention other examples. As far as special treatment is concerned, we gave tests last year, and as you can see, we did something. This year we will move forward and disprove the Cassandras, who see everywhere that there is some throat and some catastrophe. The public school will become a school of quality and equality rather than a school with students and teachers of delivery. I would also like to assure you that we will open up structures, such as supportive teaching, since October, when teaching needs are established. Because you can't open them from September, if you don't know what the issues are. From the end of October we will open them. There will be other structures that will open up for the use of all the educational staff, so that there will no longer be a customer facilities party, which we have parked teachers with many surpluses in an area and next to there will be schools that cannot function from shortcomings. It is not possible to have surpluses in schools and recruit substitutes. Do you know that? There is a surplus in certain specialities, which are hidden in the mechanism of customer relations, and we hire substitutes, to do the job that the permanent ones do. Are there too many of them? And one to be - which isn't one - matters. The Greek citizen is taxed to operate the school and other public services. It is not possible that we take into account and do not respect this sacrifice of the Greek citizen. I repeat. School will work without gaps from the first day of September.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u116	We will close by giving the floor for a minute or two to the patient, Mr. Efstathios Panagoulis, to express his fair complaint. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u117	Mr President, this is the third time and you know it very well, because you are President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u118	President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u119	Yes, presiding. This is the third time that the inspiration of the Thessaloniki program, the Minister of Finance, Mr. Tsakalotos, refuses to appear in this Chamber. He's the inspiration of that program, with which we deceived an entire people. Today at 9: 05, Mr President, from Mr Tsakalotou's office, my office is not coming. Yesterday I was notified by the competent department of Parliament late in the afternoon. I've asked Mr. Tsakalotos a question. How much does the troika cost - will you allow me the word, Mr President - 'HILTON' for months? He eats, drinks, entertains with the Greek taxpayer, the pensioner and the employee, who every month sees his missing 5, 10 and 20 euros from the bill. Mr. Tsakalotou's Ministry, the Minister of Finance, is at three hundred and fifty meters from here. He could've been here for five minutes at any time. I am sure you would give him the floor to answer how much the troika are now costing. Mr President - and I will close with this - Mr Chakalotos believes that he is the Che Guevara's lieutenant and enters HILTON every day with an empty bag and goes out with a backpack full of measures against ordinary people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u120	Don't get into the point now. He'll come in sometime and you'll get into it. Because after the Minister's away, I can't allow it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u121	I shall conclude, Mr President, with that. The decision taken by the Conference of Presidents is correct, but it is also a little comical. The Minister won't come and we'll talk. I think that the government and the Ministers must finally be aware that it is their duty to come to this Chamber. Mr President, since 1977, I have been a Member of Parliament for too many periods, as a Member of Parliament, as well as you. This mess that this Parliament has been presenting in recent months is unacceptable. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u122	Minister, Mr Delis, Mr Panagoulis, I say your names, not to say 'Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen', and I am also laughed at - the topical and urgent debate has been completed. Thank you for the cooperation. Have a nice weekend. I don't know how good this weekend will be after last night's outcome. Europe's so-called leaders, since the Europe of social solidarity has made it a Europe of poverty and banks, are now crying as the baby virgins of the Gospel on the ruins they have created, these leaders of Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-24-S1-commons.u123	With the consent of the House at 12: 04 the sitting is closed for Monday 27 June 2016 at 18: 00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
