ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Thursday 23 June 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 989/13-6-2016, a topical question by MP II Athens, New Democracy, Ekaterini Papakostas - Ironropoulou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the harmonisation of the procedures for the repayment of third-party loans to private sector families with the third families of the public sector. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 992/13-2016 topical question by F Vice-President and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Finance about the bankruptcy of the country and the fiscal diversion. 3. The question under number 1006/14-6-2016 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the problems of nursery and childcare stations. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under number 990/13-2016, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the New Republic, Eleftherios Ausgenakis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the payment of agricultural subsidies. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 993/14-2016 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health regarding the free provision of medical care to economically weak and insecure citizens. 3. The question asked by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Stavros Tassos, Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and National Defence, about the double-tracked refugees and immigrants in the hot spots of the Aegean islands. 4. Athanasios Papachristopoulos (Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity) asked Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity about the simulation of the three families with the multiples. 5. The question by number 984/13-6-2016 of the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Dimitrios Sevastakis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the non-inclusion of Samos in the pilot phase of the implementation of the social income of solidarity. 6. The question by number 945/3-6-2016 is a topical question by MP B' Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the ongoing Albanian challenges. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question under number 946/3-2016 by MP II Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Lagos to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about Turkey's financing through the Consulate of Komotini for the purchase of property of deported Greeks in Thrace. 8. The question by No 914/27-5-2016 of the Member of Parliament of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the creation of illegal kindergartens and boardrooms in Xanthi. 9. Eleni Zaroulia to the Minister of Health, Question No 545/15-2-2016 by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn to the Minister of Health, on the problems of operation in the EKAB. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by Mr Athanasios Michelis, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, about the legacy of Ioanna Krikki at the Orphanage of Larissa. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all draft laws of the Ministry of National Defence: 1. ‘Preparation of the Agreement for the Coordination Committee at the South-East European Defence Council (SEDM)’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. ‘Clarification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Finland on Defence Material Cooperation’. 3. ‘Structuring the administrative arrangement between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the ATENSM mechanism regarding transport and transport services provided by the Multinational Maritime Strategic Coordination Centre (POSETHAM)’. Ladies and gentlemen, the bills were passed by a majority in the Standing Committee. They are imported into Parliament under the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of these agreements. However, because two ministerial amendments have been tabled, No 498/35 and No 504/36, as well as a parliamentary amendment, No 505/37, I propose that Mr Nikolaos Kouzelos from the People's Association - Golden Dawn and Ms Liana Kanellis from the JRC, who have either declared 'present' or voted against the Standing Committee and the Minister responsible for five minutes. I then propose that the amendments should be discussed with the rapporteurs, the special speakers, the parliamentary representatives, the relevant ministers and those who register and speak for five minutes. After the debate on the amendments with the positions of the competent ministers is concluded, the three conventions will be voted on separately. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, may I speak before we begin?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u4	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, before the debate begins, if I may, I would like to say this: First of all, I saw the late amendment by my fellow Member, Mr Lazarides, which is perfectly reasonable and satisfying a great need, but I cannot at this time agree with the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Justice to accept it. So I would suggest that, while the debate on the three bills begins, you should contact Alexiadis and Mr Paradise and if there is agreement between the two ministries, I believe that it is an amendment that we could accept. But this cannot be done if there is no agreement between the two Ministers and, of course, the General Accounting Office of the State as to whether this entails a financial burden. However, because it covers a great need, particularly for companies with a great liquidity problem, I believe that perhaps with a consensus that you can do - we will also pursue it, although you have tabled the amendment at the last minute and if we knew it from yesterday, it would be easier to look at things - we can look at it positively. Please contact and after you come to communication, we'll probably see it. As far as the other two amendments are concerned, I would like to propose, if there is agreement between the parties - it is an opportunity, I believe, for the House - that the amendment on motor vehicle diplomas, which have been stopped for some time because of the problems that have been created, to look at and ask for the age limit of eighteen years to go to the seventeen years, provided that there is an adult in the car, when the minor is driving. We'll look into this and Mrs. Chrysosvelloni will see. It is a proposal, and once we have been discussing it at seventeen, I do not think that the children of the seventeen years, who are able to obtain a diploma and have an adult with them, should not be allowed to extend. This is an opportunity until the end of the debate to see this as well. I have also spoken to the Prime Minister and he sees it positively. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u6	Following these clarifications by the Minister, Mr. Nicholas Kouzis, a special speaker of the Golden Dawn for five minutes to be placed at the outset of the agreements. Mr. Kouzeli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much, Mr President. With regard to ratification with Finland, we will stress that we have excellent relations with the friendly Republic of Finland and we believe that bilateral relations with Finland and especially with the defence industry are positive. The question we ask is whether we will be able to stand by the catastrophe taken by the Greek defence industry, with the problems that the Greek defence industry currently has. We would like to suggest to the Minister at some point, when he has time, - it would be very pleasant - to have a prior-day briefing to the Committee on Foreign and Defence Affairs on the defence industry. So we vote'residents' in this particular sanction. With regard to the Multinational Maritime Strategy Coordinating Centre, established in 2004 to cover the deficits of NATO and the European Union in the field of maritime transport strategies, its mission is to charter ships. In other words, it helps find means of maritime transport strategies primarily by NATO. It describes itself as an independent multinational organisation, but it is, in fact, a technical mechanism for NATO's aid of US inspiration, which we are voting against. As regards the agreement for the Coordination Committee, at the South-East European Summit of Ministers for Defence, signed in 2009, where it started through an American encouragement, the explanatory statement states: ‘The creation of a climate of stability, peace, security, the strengthening of relations between the countries of South-East Europe’. Here we have the question, with whom? Turkey, Albania, Skopje? Bilateral relations and a tightening of relations? What peace are we talking about, once we have been casus belli? We see what Albanians do. We see what the Skopje do. In fact, we think it is a hypocritical agreement that does not serve national interests, but serves the interests of America. We are voting against this agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u8	Mrs. Canelli has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. We have placed ourselves in the House at length. I would ask here for another point. We had amendments, which came to contracts. We're not talking about irrelevant things. We're talking about tragicly irrelevant things. At some point - at the last minute - these amendments came in and came in. It's two of us. One of them entered the one convention. The other entered the other contract. Then one was withdrawn after the two were unified. In other words, in which civilised country will you go and say that there is also an amendment in the contract between Greece and Finland, which concerns drivers?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u10	It doesn't exist now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u11	I know it doesn't exist right now. I'm telling you what process has been followed so far. We are having a debate today at the level of the Committee on Foreign and Defence Affairs on contracts - very serious contracts - and suddenly we also have amendments which are inappropriate to regulate matters and, be careful, issues that need regulation and are necessary. Let us now go to the conventions in themselves. If we talk about POSECHAM - I will speak for all three - we have placed ourselves and we have told you that this hunt of geostrategic psalmist interests has never led anywhere. He never benefited any civilians. He has never benefited the citizens of this place. And this multinational, strategic, air transport coordinator of Athens, what's he doing? With the money of the Greek people, taking advantage of his spiritual potential, the Armed Forces, he actually makes the agent. In other words, the agent - unholy - between arming capital and imperialist interests. Why can it be such a positive thing? For what? Who protects? Is the seamen's cut up? None of this is. He also uses the Armed Forces for the interests of the ruling class. Let's go to Finland. We have said that the JRC is in favour of a defence industry which literally serves the needs of the country. Whether there's any problems with the defence industry, the stones know that. Luckily the bullets don't know it yet, but the rocks know it. And since the stones know that too, we see that this agreement is in the framework of interest again. I have heard the Minister very gladly in committee saying that it is not wrong for the defence industry to make money, as you said, Minister, that it is not wrong for shipowners to make money. Depends on how one is placed against them. You know that Finland is synonymous with a number of situations and the term 'Finlandisation' - because it was said next time - is a condition that was made by those who wanted to serve their interests. Search "NOKIA" and search "IKEA" right now, how they were created, where they are, how many fired, what they have in relation to the country's strategic planning. Analogous are the things with "ERICKSON", which people know from the phones, but it's actually deep-spoken and a hundred eighty companies, so that I don't go back to the question of intercepts and a number of other defence systems in other countries around the world. We cannot present private interests as Greek in any area, much more than the defensive one. You cannot boast that the Greek flag is shy on behalf of the Greek people, because it has the largest tuna shipowners. They're not taxed. Even 1% don't pay. It does not belong to the Greek people. It's not his. He doesn't charter, he doesn't decide, he doesn't do anything. The same applies at the level of cooperation at the level of the strategic level. You know there are no homes in this. I mean, mercy! There may be Greek nookle companies, which electronically upgrade Turkish planes. Let us not play it, in other words, that it is a patriotic task to strengthen, by compressing the working class and the bourgeoisie, so that it can simply act as proud. Otherwise we will come to receive congratulations from those who have borrowed us and taken them back and get them back with excessive interest for the next 100 years. To conclude - and I conclude, Mr President - the agreement on the Coordination Committee at the Southeast European Summit of Ministers for Defence - the one we usually call SEDM - is in the context of various initiatives which, in addition, put the country at risk. In this area we are living, in this wonderful corner of the Mediterranean, with these seas, with this people and with this strategic importance, the Balkan Brigades, established at the Council of Ministers for National Defence, the multinational peace force of Southeast Europe and a number of such a trademark, have entered a 'peaceful' seal, 'peace and cooperation' in the Stability Pacts. Greater traded product at NATO level and its members than peace do not exist. If you look around - around where NATO is, I wanted you to tell me where you saw peace, where you found peace. On what peace mission, truly peacekeeping mission, can anyone give them even half the credit? Where a riot has occurred, and where NATO has opened up fronts and wars, in any form like the one you bring here, what has happened? At our closest half NATO members and candidates to become in any way have closed the border. What about the rest? Nicosia's line is in place. In Africa wherever NATO has appeared, blood flows. You said that the issues with Libya were settled. Sure! It's been Libya. Is the Libyan people happy right now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u12	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u13	No, you. Three or four. You don't have to say much. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has caught the handkerchiefs and danced with NATO ministers. He's danced in all the tons. Don't talk about peace in NATO. Apart from being, eating and singing together, peace has never ensured anywhere, work anywhere, except mercenaries running right and left, for these situations. Look at that. The Mediterranean planes, the development of Souda, the new bases, which you have proposed to be in the Aegean, are not going to make life better. They're not going to take the deck and you know very well what I mean, where the money goes and who gets it, what he's doing with it. And this is all sold in peace packages? From Mexico to France and from Belgium to the South Pole, where formations like NATO have been mixed, only blood flows. We have voted against and we repeat the vote on all three agreements. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u14	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u15	Mr President, there is no reference to NATO in these agreements. Anyway, I would like to make one or two clarifications as most of them were said to the Standing Committee. As far as the issue of Greek-flagged vessels is concerned, not only shipowners are served, and I would like to reply. I'm really surprised from your position, Mrs. Canelle. I understand that shipowners will never win, and so on. However, on ships flying the flag of Greece, the compulsory composition is with Greek naval and bridge officers and engine officers, as well as seafarers. Greeks are working on these ships, which take over these missions and collect an amount that is important enough to survive not only the shipowners but also the seamen and the officers of our Merchant Navy. I don't think we should tie it all up. I have nothing more to add. Because something has been said about the issue of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, I will tell you that the position in force is what the former Prime Minister, Constantine Karamanlis, on behalf of Greece, took to Bucharest. As long as there are alperatorial tendencies on the Skopje side, as long as they continue to insist on using the term "Macedonia", we will never consent to their entry into NATO. That's clear. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, too. We shall proceed to the debate on the amendments, as mentioned above. The Minister has the floor, Mr Skourletis, to place him on the amendment under a general number of 504 and a special 36 for the extension of fixed-term positions to the Energy Regulatory Authority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. I think it is quite clear what this amendment serves. These are positions of people who already operate within the framework of the RAE with a contract ending at the end of the month. These positions were provided for by Laws 3734/2009 and 4203/2013 and are extended until 30-9-2017. I mean that with the changes, which are currently under way, the role of the Energy Regulatory Authority, you realise that it is decisive and is increasingly strengthened. So there's a need to support her work. In fact, I do not hide from you that in our short-term planning it is how we are now going to move on with the new organic positions, which will be called on under the envisaged procedure, so that we can support the Energy Regulatory Authority if we want all of this, which is planned and implemented, to get into a classroom and to be able to play its part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u18	So, with the time limit for the expiry of contracts, you too, Mrs Kannelly, may have been covered in relation to the amendment. Mrs Chrysosvellou has the floor on the amendment, with a general number of 498 and a special number of 35, concerning the implementation of the work of testing qualifications and behaviour of candidates for drivers and drivers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. We therefore refer to the vote on No 498/35 on a long-awaited amendment. I think we will all agree that the vote on this amendment is necessary to ensure that the work of testing qualifications and the behaviour of candidate drivers and drivers is carried out, which, from 1-6-2017, as stated in the text of the amendment, will be carried out within the hours of operation of the public service. This new system of examinations is already in the process of processing by our Ministry and we will do our utmost to make it ready even before 1-6-2017, a date which is set as a maximum time limit. This new system will be designed to ensure transparency, through new procedures, of the examination of the candidate drivers with a new body, in which, of course, the existing staff will be integrated - at least, this is the aim of the Ministry - and of course, workers will be able to provide their services within the hours of operation of the public service. It is therefore urgently necessary to introduce a transitional period for the smooth transition of the system of examination of candidates and drivers within the hours of operation of the public services, so that citizens and, in particular, candidates in relation to the issues of issuing licences can be served, and regional services can cope with their existing human resources until the proper design of the new system, to which I have referred earlier. In particular, it is provided for until 1 June 2017 that the project will continue to be carried out as it was carried out by 31 December 2015. The same will, of course, apply to the system of remuneration of candidate drivers and drivers, as well as to the audit bodies of the project in question, the so-called ‘TFO’. Of course, the remuneration system will also cover all those who have provided work outside their working hours from 1 January 2016 onwards. In addition, this provision seeks to protect road safety, as well as to safeguard the State’s revenues, as the revenues from conducting the tests are estimated at EUR 1,6 million per month and EUR 1,9 million per month. At the same time and until the abolition of the secondary medical committees made up of the services of the Ministry of Transport and Communications of the regional units of the country, it is envisaged to continue the payment of their remuneration as made until 31 December 2015. I would like to say here that as far as secondary medical committees are concerned, it is already being drawn up for the abolition of such an amendment on the part of the Ministry, which will be communicated to you shortly, so that we can present the new way to examine it. It should be noted that the maintenance in force of the system in force before 31 December 2015 for the period until 31 May 2017, as provided for in that amendment, is one of the available alternatives, the only one that has a temporary character. It is also an option that can ensure the smoothness of the transition from it to the design of a system for examining candidates' drivers, especially after the very great difficulties caused by the service of citizens, after the abolition of the pay system for candidate drivers after the introduction of the single wage law, since you all know that there was no legislation in the respective law. Finally, and with regard to the proposal by the Minister of National Defence to obtain a diploma at the age of 17, I would like to say that we are approaching it with great interest. But, Minister, we must, in order to achieve this, go ahead with the amendment of paragraph 51/2012, which our ministry will examine very carefully. After all, we have taken the initiative to amend the regulations of the Road Traffic Code and it is going to be voted on in the Greek Parliament by the Ministry of Transport's bill, so we will approach your proposal as well. Perhaps it would also be advisable to have the opinion of the Members on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, too. We shall now proceed to the rapporteurs on the amendments, beginning with Mrs Stamatakis from SYRIZA, during the speech which, if anyone wishes to register as speakers, can do so. Mrs Stamaki, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u21	Mr President, thank you very much, but I will not speak. I have been covered by the Ministers' speeches. We accept these amendments in the specific bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u22	Mr Metarakis has the floor now from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much, Mr President. At first I will make a comment, which we shall make in every sanction, including amendments. Unfortunately, this procedure does not give Members sufficient time to be informed of the content of the amendments and also deprives the competent Standing Committees, where there are Members who have specific knowledge and special interest in these matters, of their position. We therefore have to look at them for the first time in plenary - these amendments are usually late - and we need to take a short time. In the two ministerial amendments tabled today, we will vote 'yes' with the following comments: on the subject of RAE, Minister, we understand the need to maintain positions already in place to meet constant needs. I kept from your speech that you will try to find a more stable and permanent solution. I think that on such matters, that is the right way. Unfortunately, in recent months we have been legislating almost every week for a ministry which has been trying to extend a deadline instead of coming to do what is essential and to resolve the issues that are created. That is what I have to say on the subject of RAE. As to the question of officials who give driving licences, I should like to say, Minister, that you are late. This issue has been debated for too many months. There have been huge obstacles to young people trying to obtain a driving licence, to professionals trying to obtain a driving licence, to practice bio-regulatory professions and, unfortunately, we have been too late until this particular transitional solution is found. On the proposal by the Minister to give this temporary driving licence to the seventeen young children with the presence of an adult in the car, I would say that this is the British model. This applies to Britain. It's an interesting proposal. I would, however, like the committee responsible, the Standing Committee on Road Safety, to invite experts, to listen to opinions from people who are aware of these issues much better than us, so that when the appropriate legislative initiative comes from the Ministry of Infrastructure, we can put ourselves in place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, too. Mr. Poppas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u25	Mr President, we should not even place ourselves on the amendments, because, as you know, we have said so many times - the sanctions are acting uncompromisingly, outside the Rules of Procedure. With the Bureau's agreement, there are amendments to sanctions, which force MEPs, who may not be in the competent committees of the ministries, to take a position on matters which neither have the possibility nor the time to study, because they are late. I should normally not be tempted to go into the substance of the amendments and to tell you that we are both saying 'no'. I shall say, however, two words about RAE. The question of independent authorities is much more general and should finally be resolved. The meetings of the Conference of Presidents shall enter into force within the framework of the instruments and the meetings of the Conference of Presidents. It is a more general issue, as is a more general issue, exactly what is happening with the authorities, what role these authorities play. The principles are essentially a clear vine. I take, for example, the Competition Authority, which has written the Greek Parliament in its earlier shoes. Here it was voted that the Vice-President, Mr. Luke, for the ‘h’ reasons, cannot be a member of the Authority and at the moment continues this face of the New Democracy, ‘solve and tie’ at the beginning and no one controls it. We are also reading today in the press that we are in danger of losing what our potential - the European Union, I mean - the NRP, because of the existence of the cartels. Does the independent authorities finally exist for the protection of Greeks, or are there for the protection of loan sharks, cartels and multinationals? This conclusion comes from the action of the authorities. We will vote 'no' in this amendment. We shall now proceed to the amendment tabled by Mrs Chryssovelloni's Ministry for Drivers' Schools. We have asked too many questions, Mrs Chryssovelloni, on the subject of traffic education and on the subject of driving schools. The Members who have given them to you are not here at the moment. I will tell you my personal view and opinion of the People's Association - Golden Dawn. We are asking that the work of the candidates for examination should be carried out within the hour, as it has been legislated since 1 January 2017, and that the examination system be completely changed, so as to avoid what I unfortunately believe is a rule, namely moneyism. I would like to ask the Commissioner if he would be prepared to give us an answer to this question. I come now - and I conclude, Mr President - on the question of drivers. I should like to say to the dear Minister of National Defence that you could today, since you have made this procedure, the irregular, as we have said, bring an extremely good amendment, Minister, to the effect that I have asked you, and I have learned that a competent parliamentary body is now being set up in committee. Is that so?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u26	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u27	But, Minister, taking a look at the questions you personally would not be unfair.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u28	All by one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u29	There are, for example, questions from April - since 12 April - about the invasion of Macedonians on Greek territory. On 15 April, a question was tabled on the appearance of the political leader of the Armed Forces in a variation suit. On April 19th, a question was raised about the risk of Greek soldiers being threatened by an attack on illegal immigrants on hot spot in Katsika Ioannina. On 5 May, a question was tabled about the commitment of half the Aegean to the Turks and on 26 May, a question about what is the most important air defence unit in Greece. These are unanswered questions. When will these be answered? Christmas? In any case, you could do something very important today, Minister. You could take care of an issue that is also a matter of moral order, but it will also give military and non-military supplies, by recognising military driving licences, as was the case in the past. The relevant question is here. So you could provide an extra supply to young people not to find a job, because 50% of unemployment is for young people. That's how the last governments made it. You did this. When you talk about having a seventeen driver's license, why not recognize the military driving licence? Note that. It is demanding many soldiers and five-year-olds and soldiers. Look at it, please. I hope in the next convention - ratification of the Ministry of National Defence - that we do not have this unpleasant phenomenon of ministers being carried forward and bringing in last minute amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u30	Mr President, I would like to make a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u31	In the end, Mrs. Undersecretary. Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, it is not possible for us to be miserable when it comes to the application of the Rules of Procedure of the House. We're not gonna get him. Whenever amendments are made to a ratification procedure, we will point out that this is contrary to the Rules of Procedure. What you are doing now is an application of the Rules of Procedure, with the agreement of the political parties to open up a list of speakers and do not pass the amendments without debate. We say that again and we will do so every time you follow this practice. By a strict exception this had been followed in the past. Now it's the rule. Every week we have a manifestation of this phenomenon. As far as the Transport Ministry's amendment is concerned, we are in agreement. I would like to remind you of what we have proposed for three months now. Our amendment was not accepted. We have pointed out that by delays resources are being lost from paradoxes for the public, professional schools and professionals with driving licences are being denounced, the economic life of people who want to upgrade their diploma or get a professional driving licence is being delayed. There's a mess, that's for no reason. We made this amendment, which was rejected. We have even pointed out that the costs for the implementation in question will be covered by the paradox the candidates will pay. Now the General Accounting Office of the State points out that there are expenditures of 6 million. Where will these costs be covered? From the Ministry's budget? Then what about the paradoxes the candidate drivers will give? We are voting for the amendment, but we would like to see the explanations made by the State Secretary. As far as the amendment to the RAE is concerned, we will also vote for it. There are two comments here. The first point, addressed to the Minister, is why, while the matter is pending at the beginning of their own governance, did they not give a definitive solution and promise it today by requesting an extension? It's a matter I think he should comment on. The second issue, because it was of particular interest to RAE, relates to the legality of RAE's administration. It is a matter that concerns him personally as Minister. I want to inform the National Representation, the rapporteurs and the Parliamentary Representatives of all parties and the rulings, that the President and Vice-President of RAE was asked for the positive opinion of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency last year in June 2015. However, the necessary majority has not been concentrated. As the then President of the Parliament noted in relation to this document to the Minister responsible - it was Mr Lafazanis at the time - for the President and the first Vice-President of the Regulatory Authority for Energy, Mr Tsats and Mr Tsatsos respectively, there was no opinion of the absolute majority of the present. This was decided by the House, and in this respect he informed the Ministry. The ministry undisturbed them and appointed them. Can I repeat it? He disrespected and appointed them! I pointed out the problem with the President of Parliament, that this is unacceptable and that there is a matter of legitimacy and that I was answered by the Ministry and not by the President of Parliament. I was told by the President-in-Office that everything is all right, because within the voters in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency one said 'the present' and 'the present' is 'not present'. It's never happened before. And the second thing that has never happened before is that it is a ministry to interpret the Rules of Procedure of the House and tell us how we will function by violating the interna corporations of the House. Do these people want to propose Revision of the Constitution? Is it able to have the minimum - I would say - credibility to propose a change in the institutional basis of the constitution, the institutions of the state, and the rights of citizens? Are we all right? I wrote a second letter to the President of Parliament, saying that the Minister's answer is unacceptable and that it is first wrong for the reasons I mentioned. But I didn't ask the Ministry. I asked the President of Parliament. Colleagues rapporteurs and parliamentary representatives of the parties, consider that there is a given regulatory authority to interpret the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, and not the House - neither the courts can interpret Parliament's Rules of Procedure - and to have an illegal appointment of President and I Vice-President of a regulator who, otherwise, is of interest to the Minister, despite the opinion of the relevant Committee on Institutions and Transparency of the House. Ladies and gentlemen, I want you to take this very seriously. And I want this criticism not only to be the subject of our own party on the subject, but of the whole House. There's something to be done. We must respond to this and we must not allow other ministers to take advantage of the powers of the Greek Parliament, because that is what this is about. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u33	Mrs. Canelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. As far as the amendment to the RAE is concerned, we will be saying'represents'. We will say'residents' because it concerns an extension of jobs at a time when, unfortunately, jobs in the European Union and Greece are a little 'crowded'. I say 'a little' to calm it down a little early in the morning and with heat. Then what? Now, if we want to be realistic, what does the Energy Regulatory Authority regulate? To be serious, what does it regulate? Giant and monstrous interests in the energy field, which, anyway, are dictated by the interests of the monopolies on earth, much more in our region. So, what can anyone tell you? He will tell you 'the present'. You have brought the amendment back late. The workers are suspended. The rights are suspended. Everything then begins and gets extended and re-expansion and extension. In the second amendment by the Ministry of Transport, Minister, although we will say 'yes', we need to make two, three points and listen to some of them, if you can answer them. After 2017 for these specific workers, what? Secondly, a ministerial decision determines the level of remuneration. Now look at a temporary work-level and what we have accepted at work. Work has been opened whether we want it or not. They'll be ridged, whether we want it or not, and they'll get worse. We don't want it and we'll fight to keep them from getting worse. Today, therefore, the level of pay is determined by a ministerial decision. And I'm talking about the overtime part. At the level of overtime, you should be aware that under these circumstances there are more than a thousand employees mainly of staff, for whom the amendment does not provide for anything. There's nothing for these people. We will tell you 'yes', because we must also take their money from those who have it and go a little further. I have been a member of the Standing Committee, the committee responsible for such matters, until this season. I am not in this session. Minister, because you referred to the diploma in the seventeenth and the British model, I would like to point out this to all of you. We have pointed out within the committee, and we have proposed a diploma in the sixteen - we will not play with the sixteen or seventeen - and I will explain to you why in the sixteen, what I mean. On the sixteenth, because there's too many young people out there who's out at work and at work, walking around with ducks, making the develerra, with parent's permission, and you know it better than I do. At sixteen, in professions which are by definition dangerous, from the machine that may be its staff and who knows what kind of situation it is, with what conversions up to me I don't know what else! These people are completely uncovered. There is the Finnish model, which we have discussed in committee. We have told you five hundred thousand times that in this place, with these roads, with this driving behaviour, tests that do not include driving on the national road, driving at night are not tests. Some saligars and some parking lots, when all cars now have a beep-beep back to park and even idiots can park. So what tests are we talking about and what system, when we suddenly say that we are interested in children's road safety? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I come to the top, which is quintusia - and I end, Mr President - of private selfishness and of the abolition of the state in this matter. All of you know, it's impossible you haven't taken it pasta, especially those who have children. The premiums for a driver who gets a diploma from the Greek state, whether he gets it in eighteen or gets it at thirty-three or get it at sixty-three, the diploma is the same - right? - with the existing system. The children from eighteen to twenty-three pay 100% premiums more to be insured. The private person comes and tells you that he decides, at what age the driver doesn't learn to drive, he's inexperienced, how much he costs, who pays it, or else he's uncovered in relation to the rest. Do you know how many children eighteen and nineteen and twenty and twenty years have been involved in an accident and have the insurance company not paid anyone, because the child had no exceptional insurance, because he's eighteen years old? Tell me about the elderly, according to this system of insurance companies, who get a diploma at sixty and don't pay increased premiums, because we love youths, we want to see them for the sixty. Say it's me, take me as an example, so nobody gets hurt. If I received a sixty degree, would I be more experienced than the eighteen young man? Tell me. How have you authorized this thing to the insurance companies? You can't intervene because they're private companies. So they decide on their own racist, racist age, in the chilly that the young man must pay for his youth. If you find that reasonable, I suggest that you take it down to the kindergarten, because this will stimulate the market. Download the license to kindergarten, so that private companies can decide, along with infant milk and the price of insurance. At best, let's be a bonus for pregnant women.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u35	Don't mess with the preschool, Mrs. Canelle.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u36	I'm sorry about the sarcasm of the matter, but I don't think it's reasonable and normal that there's a half a Member in here, who consents to this racist behaviour, while we're talking, if we're going to take that vote down to seventeen, the diploma to seventeen and the premiums to twenty-three. For the insurer at twenty-three, he's mature not to pay any more, he's young and the state together. For her, we have said - and I say it again, if you would like to get carried away - 'yes'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Lykoudis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u38	Mr President, I know that this remark I will make is, in the end, very close to us, to the ministers who listen to it every time, but I think that Mr Loverdos is right. Every time an amendment comes in this way, this criticism will be heard...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u39	Oh, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u40	...and finally, beyond everything else, despite the fact that it is tiring for the critic, but - I repeat - and for the ministers who hear it, we return sometime to the regularity of the process, which is the most essential and most efficient. On the substance, with regard to the amendment to RAE, we are positive. We are voting for it because it has a good sense and it solves - albeit temporary - problems of subsistence or failure to staff RAE. But, Minister, there is one issue. If we are in the same situation in September or next year, I suppose there will be a new extension and we will rightly vote on it again. But that's not the point. The question is whether we'll resolve the problem in a more permanent way. As far as the amendment for the examiners is concerned, our vote and there it will be positive. However, despite the fact that I have never liked or liked political grief, and most of the time I do not think it is useful for the ministers to demand self-criticism, I would like a word, Minister, on the fact that this matter has been raised in the past in particular. I remember that the Democratic Alliance had raised this issue and was ignored. Several months have passed by not operating the system and therefore at economic losses and at cost. So we need to report in detail why we have lost this time, so that we can all be in a balance between ourselves. Finally, I should like to say, Mr President, that I have heard the Minister who has proposed a reduction in the age limit for obtaining the diploma at seven, with the presence of adults as a passenger. I don't know. I assume that in order for the Minister to suggest it, he's considered it. He didn't say that because he thought about it this morning. However, I am even more sure that this has a point of order, because I have heard Mr Metarakis say that it is in England. However, I want a question to be resolved. If a seventeen-year-old is mature, has the ability and ability to be a good and wise driver - which may be so - what is the need for an adult’s attendance? So, what's he gonna offer to him when the bare seventeen-year-old drives? If, in other words, the driver does not have the opportunity to be as it should be, what does the adult offer him next to him?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u41	Anxiety.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Loverdos is humorous. I say again that the Minister can't have any thoughts about it. Also, Mr. Metarakis, who says that it is an English experience, will obviously know what it is for and what it is for the English people. But if a seventeen - year - old man is capable of driving - I wish children could - then he's fine. If he has a lot less skill to drive a car, I don't know what the adult's gonna do to him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u43	He'll help him get to work.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, too. Mr. Katsikis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. With Amendment No 498/35 by the Ministry of Transport, I believe that the strike of the Committee of Inquiry, which caused problems for the candidate drivers, amateurs or professionals who were kidnapped, has not been paid out of normal working hours during the months which they worked for almost March and have not been exempted from the single wage, as has been excluded and paid for by other committees such as the Ministry of Education, etc. They shall return to the scheme before 31 December 2015 on the remuneration of their overtime until 30 June 2016. After that date, they will be reappointed until May 2017 to 250 euros, where the pay cycle outside normal working hours will be closed and they will only return to their normal working hours. Thus, the truth is that we are reducing the general government's budget in terms of the expenditure that was paid to cover such overtime, outside the working time regulation. And, of course, we agree, as we welcome the proposal by the Minister for National Defence, on obtaining a driving licence from young people of 17 years old. As regards the amendment to the general number 504 of the Energy Regulatory Authority, following the position of Minister Skourletis, we have certainly felt that people who have entered into a contract of employment are serving RAE's work needs to promote public and private interests. But, Minister, I would like to make some points on the occasion of continuing the observation made by the Parliamentary spokesman of the Potamio Lykoudis, who said that a more permanent solution must be found. I do not know whether this amendment is the prerogative of a more permanent solution for the servants of the Energy Regulatory Authority by means of contracts of employment, since, firstly, the provisions of Articles 5 and 6 of the d.c. 164/2004 prohibit the conclusion of successive contracts if not more than three months has elapsed between them. Also, their duration is forbidden to be longer than twenty - four months. We do not know, therefore, when these conventions started and what length of time they were, on the one hand, extended and, on the other hand, if there was one among them in this quarter, as this law imposes. And of course, where you say that they are excluded from the Presidential Decree, the amendment to Article 5(6) of the Rules of Procedure refers in particular. 3297. By looking at this law, we find that paragraph 6 does not exist. If my point is correct and I am not mistaken, then I would ask that this be corrected for the validity of the amendment after it has been voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u47	Mr Saridis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, we have become predictable for those who are following us in our responses. We have often expressed the opposition to the way in which the government's legislative work is actually carried out. Once again in a ratification of an agreement we have two unreasonable amendments. The Member is systematically squeezed and cannot be expressed. And if we in the Central Association can understand why this is the case for the Members of the government majority, we cannot understand why it is for the Vice-Population MPs who, in any case, do not take their point of view into account. These amendments could come within the relevant committees and place the Members involved in these committees. As far as the subject of the amendments is concerned, the Central Association will vote in favour of both amendments. It will be voting in favour of the RAE's amendment, because we are basically aware of the need to maintain some jobs. But, Minister, we do not understand the practice of prolonging. Extension, extension, extension. As my colleagues have said, after a year we will again be called here to vote, whether we or some others, on this matter substantially. With regard to Amendment No 498, what the examiners will take by 1-6-2017 will actually be determined. Is that how we see the legislative work? With an M.A.D.? With ministerial decisions? In any case, we understand the problem created by the strike of the examiners and will be voting in favour of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, too. Mr Theocharopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u50	Mr President-in-Office, indeed once again I would like to stress this - because we have said so in your own contracts - amendments are incomprehensible from the bill. We are saying that there are no inappropriate amendments to be tabled today, but that we are talking beyond a procedure that is foreseen. And this means that we do not have the Members' information, not to be discussed in committee and a thousand other issues. We cannot go on like this, Mr President. There is something to be done about this. We have heard some suggestions from the President of Parliament. We must reach the Conference of Presidents immediately. This phenomenon is unprecedented. This process of being in every bill and waiting for the last night or the morning, if there are to be any sudden amendments, needs to be resolved. I now come to the issue of the two amendments: First of all, when we legislate in this way, there is logistical manoeuvre, by purpose. It was pointed out a moment ago by the rapporteur of the congressive party, if - for example - an observation he made, namely that there is no matching of paragraphs and articles. Therefore, you should see it to be resolved. Of course, many other issues may be lost, which in three hours' time cannot be caught by the most diligent MP. That's the reality. Secondly, with regard to the first amendment on the duration of fixed-term positions in the Energy Regulatory Authority, we are voting for this amendment, I think it is understandable, but as the rapporteur for the Democratic Incorporation has made clear, that the depreciation of the independent authorities, like this one, continues. We have seen too many phenomena so far, by the National Broadcasting Council, RAE, and concrete examples - we are making specific opposition, not in the air, concrete elements that have just been asked to be answered and not for the first time - and of course the confusion of the roles of the Parliament, the Minister, and so on. We must also be very careful on these issues. Of course, the extension issue is not solved. Of course, there should be an extension - until 30 September 2017 I think that it is planned - but some definitive solutions should be given some time to move forward. And I come to the second amendment, to the amendment to the drivers' amendments. First of all, I should like to say something about the proposal for the seventeen years of age, Minister. I imagine that it has been taken as an object of thought today in the debate. Why am I saying that? For it is very reasonable to point out the points that have been made a moment ago, such as the rapporteur for the river, for example. What do I mean? That we can't play the experts here. They must go to committee if there are such proposals, we must listen to those responsible, say their views on all these issues, and then, of course, put them in the position if there is such an intention. So we need a responsible attitude. I say again that I take it as a matter of thought today, just as it has been set. So in this second amendment, first of all - I would like to say to you that this is an amendment, of course, with which we agree, which maintains the system in force until 31 May 2017 until 31 December 2015. In particular, it is recalled that the Democratic Reconciliation has tabled the same amendment in time, which had not been accepted by the Ministry, which provided evidence of the need to regulate the urgent issue of dealing with the non-examination of candidate drivers' examinations. We have stressed that the failure to carry out tests for the acquisition of a driving licence results in the undermining of the professional activity of driving schools, but above all in the non-service of citizens. I see here the rapporteur's report which you are bringing today and I see what we in our report have been bringing - on several occasions last month. We said, for example, that a decision should be taken by the Ministers for Finance and Infrastructure by 31 May - we said May - to set a monthly compensation for those involved in the work that takes place after the end of the normal working hours. You say: ‘To establish monthly compensation by joint decision of the Ministers for Finance, Transport, Infrastructure and Networks, issued by 30 June 2016 at the latest’. Excuse me, is this where we're playing? Three to four months has left the whole system in this despair. Candidate drivers can't give their exams, we've got a loss of revenue. And you are now coming and you are bringing the amendment and you are not explaining why you have not solved it in the past few months - we support it - and you have not moved on with what we have tabled, you have not accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u51	They didn't have any money.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u52	Mrs. Canelle says a very important point, you didn't have any money. The General Accounting Office of the State provides for expenditure of EUR 6 million. Let's get this straight. That this money is not 6 million the expenditure provided for in the General Accounting Office of the State. This money is the paradox, which the candidate pays, part of the evil goes to the point and pays these expenses. Therefore, there will be no expenditure, the 6 million that the State's General Accounting Office puts it into account.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u53	So, how much is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u54	That's how much it actually does. Therefore, a regulation which does not give rise to expenditure on the substance, has not been too much in the past months to the amendments - not that you do not know it, you have not seen it -, despite our opposition - I think it is responsible - for bringing you this amendment. You bring it today - we say that we will support it - but you do not say why - even to substantiate it with your own arguments - the matter has not been resolved for a number of months, so that this mess has been created. Finally, I should like to say this and end by saying this. We waited today, after the two amendments came, an amendment to solve the question of assessors at the ELGA, Minister - because you are the Minister in relation to the bill. You are not an object of this, but it is as necessary and necessary. Estimates cannot be made at the moment and they were committed to solving this issue with drivers. We had tabled this amendment at the time for drivers and tabled this necessary amendment. It is not solved, it is not estimated, there are no compensation for Greek farmers. There is a risk that European money will be lost. This issue should therefore also be resolved immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u55	Thank you. As far as we can see, none of the other government representatives have asked for the floor. So I'll give the floor to the ministers. Mrs. Chrysosvelloni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. I have heard the views of the honourable Members, and I sincerely wondered because we seem to be in other rooms at regular intervals and we are watching other things. Well, first of all, let me remind you that this amendment - and it also emerges from the text of the amendment - required the signature of the Ministry of Finance, the Minister of Finance and, of course, the agreement of the General Accounting Office of the State. So some of the questions you are addressing us, you could have addressed them to the Ministry responsible, or I should like to say this better to the Ministry with the heavy burden, as this amendment is also concluded at the expense of financial costs. In any case, we have repeatedly said to all - and indeed to all workers, that is to say, those who are employed in transport administrations, by me, have been informed on several occasions - that this amendment could not be accepted, despite the fact that we have been attempted many times, both from the day when I took up my duties and my predecessor, Mr Sguridis, to go through, despite this, there was a great deal of reaction from the technical standpoint. What for? First of all, because they were unable to understand and understand why in Greece the examinations must be done outside working hours and secondly, because they required us to go to the new system in a very short time, which they were setting in two months. Something that, as you well understand, could not happen, i.e. go to the new system. Many contacts have been made, many negotiations have been conducted and I, both the Minister for Infrastructure and the General Secretariat for Transport and Responsibility on the part of the Ministry of Finance, and finally when the institutions have raised their objections and understood and, of course, when the first phase of evaluation has been completed, because you all know that the balances have been very delicate and sensitive, we have been able to bring this amendment. I don't understand what you're implying. That we could not bring in a specific amendment? That we wanted to put the candidate drivers, the examiners, the driver schools inconvenience? If that's possible! This is quite clearly contrary to the rules of reason if you continue to claim it. As far as expenditure is concerned, I would like to say that 6 million, this expenditure, applies to the period up to the implementation of the new system. I would therefore like to say that the expenditure for 2016 has been entered in the budget and has even been entered in a specific budget code, and in 2017 the expenditure in question has already been calculated within the medium term. Because it has been mentioned - and I think that we all agree, and that should be of interest to us - to move forward with a new way of conducting the tests, which will ensure two things, firstly transparency and secondly transparency, and secondly, to say that we are already in the process of drawing up this new system. As soon as we are ready - we will do everything possible to do this before June 2017 - we will be able to present it to you. I have listened very carefully to all the proposals and opinions that have been put forward for driving licences. Clearly, too, on the part of our Ministry, they will be examined very carefully. After all, I told you that we are entering the process of revising the provisions of the Road Traffic Code and that it will shortly be submitted to the House of the Ministry of Transport's draft law, which will provide for many new regulations and we will certainly approach with due seriousness and responsibility and the proposal of the Minister of National Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u57	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u58	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u59	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u60	First of all, Mr President, I would like to add to the draft law entitled 'Following the Coordinating Committee Agreement at the South-East European Defence Council (SEDM)' the words 'and other provisions' in order to include both ministerial amendments made by this House. I would like to say that this is a very interesting debate today, a debate which I think we should do again in relation to the functioning of the House. Indeed, I am the oldest in the House, with Mr Davakis, in 1993, who also obtained a red phone. I don't know what that means in particular, to look into it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u61	You, too, red tie.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u62	That's right. There must be a procedure in the context of the debate on the revision of the constitution of the new electoral law and on the functioning of the House. There must be one day when amendments are being debated, but there really must be amendments and ministerial and parliamentary committees, with all the preparations that are being put forward. Perhaps this should be opened in a debate, because it will also help the greater confidence that the Greek people can give towards the parliamentary process, towards legislative work. I would like to say that I will be extremely positive on this. I would like to assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that the Ministry of Defence has all the questions put by all the Members who are examining them one by one, and I personally consider them. There are questions which are not actually answered. These are divided into two categories: The first category is that the same question has been tabled by many colleagues, has been answered within the House and is re-issued. I do not answer them, and I do not answer them consciously, because we should help parliamentary control. You see, I'm here myself, and I'll always be here, because this is my obligation here and in the committees to answer the questions. But that is also the duty of Members. When a timely question is examined, it cannot be tabled the next day fifty times in written question and answered. It's not right. The second category is the questions we choose from the Ministry to answer them in plenary. I do it consciously. Questions which would be much better to respond not by answering the written question, by the Minister to the Member and often by a ministry office, to be given political explanations and to have a political dialogue in order to be able to open the matter. In national matters, there are two categories there too. There are issues that we need to discuss - and it is in the country's interest to have a national position in Parliament - but there are issues which do not exist. I take many times questions about things that are not there and I am not talking about you, but in general. There are publications which have nothing to do with reality. In these questions, if the Minister for National Defence responds to an event, for example, described by a newspaper and never done, it will in the end be the impression that he is trying to hide the fact while there is no. In other words, there is only one answer for things that have not been done. I would like to assure you, therefore, that I am looking at them, one by one, and I will answer them. I will ask my fellow Members for your opportunity, namely to bring these questions to Parliament and discuss them here, not as timely but as questions. When they do not respond in a period of time, you can bring them to the House. I'm at your disposal. To establish the day. I want to answer, I'm telling you. That government wants to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u63	Not everyone does. You do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u64	I am very happy to do this, and I would like to assure you that this is also an opportunity to discuss and be.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u65	We're out of the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u66	There are questions that can actually start a dialogue. You said, for example, about the issue of military diplomas. We're in favor. What's the problem? That when the term was 23 months or 12 months, there was the possibility of spending a six-month school to get a fifth-class diploma. In fact, I remember the children we were serving together, the drivers of the fifth grade, were given a political degree and had a professional assurance - now the term is nine months - in nine months, with forty-five days in the training and ranking centre, to go to training for six months, will act as a driver for the Armed Forces for one month. But also within the framework of the MOMA - because we also want operators of machinery - we are looking very seriously at the issue of short-term soldiers, that is, at three years' time. To allow children who are operators of machinery or professional drivers to extend their term of office for another two years and three months and as short - scale soldiers of the three - year - old to actually get a diploma in politics. We will ask the Ministry of Transport to see the reintroduction of the diploma, in particular the professional diploma that was previously guaranteed. I agree with the proposal that I have heard from Mr Metarakis and Mr Metarakis, on the subject of the proposal I have made. I did so to start a debate and I am pleased that this debate has taken place. I should like to say to my colleague that I trust the seventeen more than anyone else. I have a son of seventeen and I'd trust him with the car. I said it for reasons of civil liability. Because if there's not an adult who has a diploma, criminal and civil responsibility will have it, the father, the parent, the guardian. Let's find a way, I wish we could find a way to cover this and see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u67	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u68	The criminal responsibility, I say, Mr. Loverdo, as a minor. Because he's a minor...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u69	It's over fifteen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u70	Good. Let's see. I am pleased with the proposal that is in existence and on the occasion of the acceptance by the Government and the Minister of State for the discussion of the new Road Traffic Code, I would like to say that all this must be discussed by experts, and we must call experts. In 1996, in this House, a Car accident Investigation Committee had been held. Over the summer, six months have been discussed in committee with an excellent finding, which - like the other conclusions - has not happened at all. We threw it away. Such a debate must be opened, because it is indeed anachronistic for the whole system and the examinations, it was corrupt until first, others paid and took the diploma. This must also change on security issues, because traffic accidents produce a dead town every year, a dead town of Greek citizens, who leave life "in war conditions". Finally, as far as the amendments are concerned, I do not hide from you that I, too, feel bad when I come here as Minister and introduce amendments which are irrelevant. There's a problem with the Rules of Procedure. But yesterday I asked the Secretary-General of the Government and Minister Skourletis - and I asked him - to get the amendment out of the agreement with Finland - which is a bilateral agreement and to enter another bill. That's why it says "time", if you see. The Ministerial Amendment to RAE writes 'priority' because Mr Skourletis withdrew the amendment from the bill, from the agreement on Finland and brought it into an agreement which is not bilateral. In fact, however, there is a matter for all the ministries to deal with issues such as the ELGA. That is why I propose the special sitting of the House in the context of the change of Rules of Procedure, Mr Vice-President. We also need to discuss these with ministerial amendments, but also with parliamentary amendments, because the parliamentary amendment tabled by Mr Lazarides today could be accepted. It is reasonable, but some conditions are required. The agreement of the Ministry of Finance is required, the report of the General Accounting Office of the State and the Ministry of Justice. I hope that this amendment as well - because I have not seen any response from the ministries so far - we will be able to discuss it within the next few days in the draft legislation of the Ministry of Economic Affairs or of Finance or in the change to the Code of Administrative Procedure. Indeed, the taxpayer is obliged to pay a tax and it makes perfect sense to have the possibility of gaining access to legal certainty and not to have all the professionals suffered. It makes perfect sense, but at the moment we cannot accept it. I hope and commit myself, too, that this amendment will be sent to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice to discuss it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u71	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u72	Mr President, on the subject of international agreements, I would like to inform you that the Ministry of National Defence is committed. I told you in committee that we had about thirty-seven agreements that had not been ratified. Right now, there's fifteen left. We have, in other words, voted these months on the agreements that have been in place since 2002, in 2003, some others since 2009. By the end of the year all these agreements and the government's commitment will have been discussed and closed, it is important that, when there is an international agreement, within the next three months of its signing, it will be ratified in Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u74	We have escaped, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u75	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u76	Mr. Brutsi, would you like something?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u77	Mr President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u78	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u79	You were in a hurry, Mr. Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u80	Wait a minute, in the box...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u81	To go to your work, that's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u82	I have asked for the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u83	I would also like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u84	As a parliamentarian, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u85	Wait a minute. It's Mr. Brutsis. Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, I will be brief and thank you for the time. I would like to make a repetition of the debate which took place shortly before and say that we have a positive attitude on the issues of international sanctions. It is a 'wrong' procedure in the parliamentary framework, in which we do not depart and agree. They are international conventions, agreements on which we are always positively committed. On the issue of the amendments - Mr Mitterrand has made his position - we are putting ourselves in a positive position with the remarks which have been heard. The final point is that we agree and that is the positive one, and we hope that there will be this framework for the debate and that the debate on road behaviour and diplomas will be opened officially in Parliament, because it is a very big issue, Minister, which concerns the lives of many, the functioning of our society. It is a crucial issue and accidents are repeated, but when it comes and when it comes, we are here to have this debate. Incidentally, because the Minister has opened up the question of Parliament's operation, I think it was a mistake because the government in it, Minister, is exposed. Just yesterday the President of the New Democracy tabled a text confirming that this is the worst parliamentary function in recent years and decades since statistics began to be observed and recorded. The ministers are not coming to answer the current questions, they are not answering them. Let me tell you that it is not the Minister's right to decide which question he will answer or not. It's a matter that...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u87	But that's not the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u88	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u89	I left him by way of derogation, Mr Kammenos, and hopefully he won't get far. Understand? We are talking about the amendments. That's not what we're talking about today. That's not it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u90	I'm done. It is a matter clearly described in Parliament's Rules of Procedure. If we are to change the Rules of Procedure, change it and discuss it, but it is arbitrary that the Minister decides whether or not he wants to answer a question. On the basis of these remarks, we have said that we agree with both the amendment and the agreements. Thank you. On the basis of these remarks, we have said that we agree with both the amendment and the agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u91	Mr. Lykoudis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u92	Mr President, I think that those of us who referred to the amendment for the examiners and why he was late to come, and that was before the tabling of a similar amendment, which was ignored from the past few months, so we lost time and had a financial cost, made this remark without criticism and even mild criticism. We have just noticed that it would be a good thing for the balance of all of us - as I said - to hear a word about why we are late. Instead, Mrs Chrysosvelloni, I think in an aggressive way, starting with her position in the other room, in other times and in other places, she claimed that lateness was not because that is not true as a fact, but because it was the Minister of Finance who did not sign it. As is the problem of those who are opposed to an observation, one criticism, it is that they exercise it to the Minister of State's amendment rather than to the entire government as a government. It is completely indifferent to us, Mrs Chrysovelle, who is responsible for the fact that this delay has occurred. Obviously either there was or there wasn't. Whether the Minister for Finance has signed or not has signed our signature is not a matter for you to give up on why we are doing this, in my opinion, and not even mild but simple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u93	Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u94	I would just like a minute, Mr President. Indeed, the government is united. Why was that answer? I think that we have really had a mild criticism and, indeed, we will vote for the amendment and we have made it clear. You had a consensus in here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u95	I guess much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u96	And even more so with that given, your position is incomprehensible. I think it's out of place. You said specifically that others were to blame, that it was the Minister of Finance. Then the Minister of Finance would come here and answer for this amendment. You said that the General Accounting Office of the State had to be persuaded when I told you that the EUR 6 million was accounting for them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u97	You did say that, Mr Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u98	I beg your pardon, Mr President, I will be a minute. I am a parliamentary representative of the Democratic Alliance. We're out of procedure anyway. Let us give the democratic right to say an argument.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u99	We're going to the third-cycle out of procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u100	An argument! I'd be done!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u101	It's my responsibility! Nobody else!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u102	I'd be done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u103	There's no timer. The clock doesn't run!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u104	Madam Secretary, the General Accounting Office of the State had to be persuaded. We have told you that the EUR 6 million are essentially state expenditure. And that's what you should convince the institutions. We asked for an effective negotiation. You said, "Have you felt that we could and didn't do it?" We specifically accused you of ineffectiveness in the negotiations. Either you did not understand or the institutions did not understand this procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u105	Mr. Theocharopoulos, repetition is a mother of learning. But we found out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u106	So that we do not hear any more arguments from the press last time that you said attributes that we are voting on a provision to depreciate motorways, but we are voting on it because in the negotiation process we have not been able to achieve anything better. We have heard today that it is the Minister of Finance who is responsible for this provision. Please, a little serious, because moments require responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u107	You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u108	Mr. Papachristopoulos, do you want the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u109	I haven't spoken at all. I'd like at least two or two and a half minutes. We're done anyway. I, you know, I'm too short.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u110	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u111	Aren't we in the amendment? We're not on a list. The Ministers have already answered. You blew it in the air and it was already blown!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u112	You're right, Mrs. Canelley. We're not on a list. I agree with you. It's my responsibility. Mr. Papachristopoulos, is that necessary? Don't open another cycle out of the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u113	I'm a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u114	I know. But you did not ask for the floor, and now I will really be wrong if I do not make a mistake for you too. What to do! You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u115	Oh, no. If Mrs Canelley stands up, I'm not talking at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u116	Don't give me that! I'm not playing. I don't need it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u117	Mrs. Canelley's right. It's my responsibility. He's right, Mr. Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u118	That's not a process. Whoever sees light comes in! Do I personally have something to gain? I've voted. I want to go. Are you serious now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u119	I never run out of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u120	Don't make personal reports. I'll have to take the floor. Reporting on staff under the Rules of Procedure obliges me to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u121	Mrs. Kanelle, the fact is that there is no maturity. There is no maturity. There isn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u122	Mr. President, have everyone spoken? I've already asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u123	They didn't talk. You can contribute to the process, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u124	I won't bother Mrs. Chrysovelonis. Don't get upset. I want to talk about Mr. Kammenos. You have a parliamentary experience of twenty-three years, as you have said. I want you to understand this. It's simple. You're not alone. I mean, you guys don't just look at them. We're two hundred and ninety-nine. For example, today you are saying that you have answered the written question I have asked on the issue of diplomas. I mean it like you said. You did answer. You said 'I will reply to Parliament'. Didn't you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u125	When it's timely.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u126	You said'responsible' about the written questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u127	Mr. Poppa, that's not our point. Derogation has been made by the Minister. And I accepted it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u128	Derogation. Put it in a minute. Tomorrow - a Member of Parliament comes and asks a similar question. There's no cannibalism. He doesn't see what questions the other de's doing. So, can I watch what the other two hundred ninety-nine do? Oh, no. I have this information that another Member had asked the same question. Aren't you going to answer him? He said a colleague earlier that it is unacceptable that questions should not be answered. Well, I agree. Secondly, the issue of national issues. I couldn't agree more. There are things that must not be touched, but there must also be information. As far as our party is concerned, we have not been invited for information at the Ministry of National Defence and you know it. Institutionally, that is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u129	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u130	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u131	I invite you to contribute to the end of the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u132	I don't contribute. I'll take the floor before the ministers talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u133	The ministers are closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u134	If they're going to take the floor, we're the parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u135	Let's take him, too. We will either follow the procedure properly or we will all take the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u136	There's nothing to close.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u137	Here, Mr. Loverdo, take the floor for just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u138	Thank you. We have made an observation about the functioning of the RAE to the relevant Minister. The Minister responsible recommended his amendment and left.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u139	He's not here now. Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u140	The Minister responsible, I repeat, recommended his amendment and left. Indeed, if I have listened well - and I am asking for correction if I have not listened well - that my colleague of the Independent Greeks has made an observation on a legislative issue, namely that a paragraph which does not exist in this legislation is mentioned. Will the Minister of National Defence answer here and where did he come to committee? As we say evil, we'll say good to be trustworthy. Parliament is respected. It will respond on behalf of the Minister for the Environment and other matters, to which we are criticizing and which are not here to respond to a point made by a majority MEP for legality. What are we going to vote for those who are in a hurry?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u141	Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u142	Don't interrupt me, please, so I can finish. I did not have time to talk about the issue of the diplomat in seventeen respecting time. In this respect, I believe that a common place has been created. The common place says in an interesting proposal to go through the ordinary legislative procedure. It's interesting. On the issues of criminal liability mentioned by Mr Kammenos, I have an opinion. It's not a matter. As far as civil liability is concerned, we'll see. Let those responsible speak on the issues of competences and competences. There are countries that have a licence at sixteen. So we must deal with this with international experience so that if the relevant legislation is to be modernised. Maybe you don't have to. That sounded good. Let's see it. With regard to the Ministry of Infrastructure, it cannot be said, Mr President of the majority, that you are complaining about this second cycle of debate, that the remark made by Mr Lykoudis, which was heard by other parties, is not on our side for the second time, unless my recent memory, has deceived me. Is it possible when a reasonable and very mild criticism is made of the government for delays in answering to us that we are in another Chamber because we do not take into account the responsibility of the Treasury? Is that possible? Mr President, can there be a Member or a Minister who ignores the fact that criticism is addressed to the legislative initiative? You're the ones who came here. The Treasury didn't come. You'll hear the good and the bad. Are we voting on your amendment and you're talking to us on top? So, how can we get to know in this Chamber? You will accept the criticism. You're telling us it's the Treasury. So what? The government's responsibility is collective. Do you take care of it? You have the legislative initiative. Be more careful.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u143	All right, Mr. Loverdo. Thank you very much. Mrs. Canelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u144	The procedure is carried out in a way similar to parliamentary scrutiny.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u145	I took responsibility, Mrs. Canelley.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u146	Listen to me. You took responsibility. In this sense, therefore, and because I do not want to speak on staff - although I would be entitled to it under the Rules of Procedure - I would ask you very much to grant my dear colleague the right to speak in time as a parliamentary representative. Because if I were to raise irrelevant issues, I would have put the hundred amendments to the JRC, for which the government has not voted, and at most a major national issue, for me, at the moment, the fire in Cyprus, for which, among the inconsistency, I have not heard a word where we could have produced videos of news in connection with false controversy. It's just a minute for the man to talk, not to think I had any reason to shut his mouth. Because I'm a panel expert, not ruining the big panel here today. Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u147	Mrs Canelli, you do not have to lend him your time, because she has the status of Parliamentary representative. Here you go, Mr. Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u148	Away from me, the word arrogant. Because we, as a Parliamentary group, are in power, I believe that we should give the best example. However, I think that this is an end, and Mrs Canelley knows how much I appreciate her, and I want to believe that she is right as well. I would therefore like to say this very quickly: I am pleased, Mr President, that even with some objections there is a consensus on some things and this is a beautiful moment in Parliament. I didn't mean much. That's what I wanted to say. I would like to stress and raise this point very much: a Labour MP, an old Oxfam activist, has recently been murdered. Do you know what the other parties of the British Parliament have decided to hold elections to this seat? Not to put candidates, a tribute to the way they were lost and a mansional behavior of opposition parties...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u149	What do we have to deal with today? Any other matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u150	Listen, listen. I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u151	I'm staying in what you said, we're a nice atmosphere. Finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u152	I think it's a nice ending. Mr. Brutsis raised a point. I say this: I'm leaving. This has been voted on. It's over. I believe that there is unanimity, Mr President, and I say that some people should actually work in this House, without designations, without acute angles, without polarisation, because sometimes verbal violence brings physics. A tangible example of what was done in relation to what Mr Brutsi said and I agree with him. Tone down in this Chamber and I don't want to say anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u153	Thank you very much for respecting time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u154	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u155	Here you go, Mrs. Chrysovelon.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Loverdo, I am addressing you and your colleague, the honourable Member, did not understand what I said. I have not said, therefore, in any case that responsibility lies with the Minister for Finance. Did I say that? I said that the delay was due to the opposition on the part of the technical scales to sign and accept what we proposed. As you can see, this amendment is also signed by the Minister for Finance. The Minister for Finance, who had the entire Ministry of Finance at the steering wheel, was not able to endorse it from the moment when there was an opposite view in the technical steps. You did not hear me saying that I told you that in all these negotiations and the contacts made with the technical steps, the Ministry of Finance was there, it was there, and he gave the battle with us. But when it was going to be discussed - it came two, three times - a similar amendment, we said to the Ministry of Finance as more competent, because, as you can see, it entails financial expenditure. Therefore, because of the financial expenditure it entails, since there was a refusal of the institutions, the procedure could not go ahead. That doesn't mean we're taking responsibility, as you said, for the Treasury. For God's sake! Responsibility, if it can be regarded as a responsibility, focuses on the refusal of technical scales. In conclusion, I would like to say that I, as a State Secretary, have no problem with having made a mistake, or I have come back to something, accepting my responsibilities. But I cannot accept responsibilities which do not correspond either to our Ministry or to the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u158	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u159	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u160	Despite the controversy, I think there has been a good debate today. However, I would like to say that it is unfair to say that the government does not respect Parliament. I would just like to remind the Prime Minister that he is in Parliament very often and in parliamentary control. Let me remind you that Mr Samaras did not come as Prime Minister once. Not once. It would be much better instead of media debates and the Chief of Officer's Representation being here, being here and during the discussions of the legislative work, the pre-dated order in the House. I wanted to remind you that Constantine Mitsotakis was coming here to parliamentary control...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u161	Minister, don't play the game too! I mean, mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u162	He's been coming here to parliamentary control since 18:00 an.m.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u163	Looks like who started it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u164	Mrs. Kanelle, it's not bad to have a dialogue. We're here to talk about silicosis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u165	It's not dialogue. Make your historic, personal journey from New Democracy to ANELs and ANELs to the government has nothing to do with the meeting! I mean, mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u166	Because you are causing me, I would remind you that we used to say: "The Communists are not soldiers, open the doors to the workers" and you were together then. Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u167	That's a panel now. Everybody be well! I would like to make some announcements to this House. Congressman Andreas Katsaniotis is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u168	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Congressman Fotini Arabatzis is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u169	The House therefore approved the requested permission. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 (Priminal Responsibility of Ministers), as in force, on 21-6-2016, a criminal case for the former Minister of Shipping and the Aegean Sea, Miltiadis Varvitsiotis. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: 'Following the Coordination Committee Agreement as part of the South-East European Defence Council (SEDM) and other provisions' is adjourned. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u170	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u171	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u172	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u173	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u174	Let me explain to you now: we say 'no' to the convention, 'no' to one amendment and 'yes' to the other. If you make them one, how can I vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u175	Look at that. If there's any objection, Mrs. Canelley,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u176	I'll talk to you again. How do I vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u177	Listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u178	Now do you understand what's going on?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u179	I understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u180	Oh, no. In fact, the convention also draws the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u181	Listen to me to say: if anyone had raised a point of splitting the vote, I would have accepted it. In the sense that...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u182	You can't dissociate them practically. But how do you record the Communist Party's vote from the time that an article is not allowed in the conventions?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u183	I totally understand you. So, what do you suggest, Mrs. Canelle?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u184	Record it for the beginning and nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u185	I'm recording it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u186	It's stupid.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u187	Recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u188	I told you my vote: 'No' in the contract, 'yes' in the case of the Ministry of Transport,'residents' in the RAE case. From there on, history will write down the varnishes of the procedure, but it's totally indifferent to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u189	Listen to me. It's a marginal process. For practical reasons, we do what we do. Record what you said. Let's go down. We are continuing to vote on the principle of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u190	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u191	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u192	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u193	Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of National Defence: ‘Constitution of the Agreement on the Coordination Committee at the South-East European Defence Council (SEDM) and other provisions’ was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the vote on articles and amendments. Asked by this House: Can Article first be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u194	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u195	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u196	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u197	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u198	As I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u199	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u200	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u201	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u202	The first article was therefore accepted as being majority. We have now come, Mrs Canelley, to the point you raised. Asked in this House: is the amendment accepted by a general number of 498 and a special number of 35, as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u203	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u204	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u205	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u206	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u207	As I spoke, Mr President. Sustained.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u208	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u209	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u210	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u211	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 498 and a specialist of 35 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as an own-initiative article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of 504 and a special number of 36?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u212	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u213	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u214	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u215	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u216	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u217	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u218	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u219	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u220	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 504 and a special 36 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u221	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u222	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u223	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u224	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u225	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u226	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u227	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u228	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u229	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of National Defence: ‘Application of the Agreement for the Coordination Committee at the South-East European Defence Council (SEDM) and other provisions’ was accepted in principle and on articles. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept here that we shall vote on the bill as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u230	Today?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u231	What did you say? I didn't hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u232	Mr President, there is an addition of a new article. On the basis of 104, the vote on the whole goes to the next sitting. We've discussed this many times.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u233	Do you want to have a meeting tomorrow morning?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u234	No, Monday, there's a bill. Why? Is it this urgent?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u235	Tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u236	I'd love to, we'll be here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u237	The rest of you, do you agree? We had a whole conversation, Mr. Metarakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u238	Excuse me, the process has been blown up so far. You guys want to retreat the process so you can blow it up again?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u239	I am entitled, Mr Mitarakis, to say you weren't in the Chamber. You weren't in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u240	How wasn't I?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u241	You weren't in the Chamber. So we say 'yes' now and the story ends.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u242	Excuse me. You weren't in the Chamber and we're on our way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u243	He is right, Mr President, but we accepted the procedure at first reading.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u244	That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u245	But next time...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u246	All right, Mr. Loverdos, that's enough. But Mr. Metarakis wasn't here. It was, and it wasn't. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u247	It can be accepted exceptionally today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u248	So we're moving on to the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u249	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u250	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u251	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u252	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u253	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u254	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u255	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u256	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u257	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of National Defence: ‘Application of the Agreement for the Coordination Committee at the South-East European Defence Council (SEDM) and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u258	We shall proceed to the next ratification, for Finland, without Finland. The debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence is adjourned: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Finland on Defence Material Cooperation". Asked by this House: Can the bill be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u259	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u260	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u261	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u262	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u263	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u264	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u265	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u266	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u267	Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of National Defence: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Finland on Cooperation in the Defence Materials" was accepted by a majority, in a single discussion, in principle, of the articles and the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u268	We shall proceed to the third ratification. The debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence is adjourned: ‘Structure of the Administrative Arrangement between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Mechanism of ATTENS with regard to Transport and Transport Services provided by the Multinational Coordinating Centre for Marine Transport (POSETHAM)’. Asked by this House: Can the bill be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u269	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u270	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u271	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u272	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u273	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u274	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u275	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u276	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u277	Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of National Defence: ‘Structuring the Administrative Arrangement between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the ATENSMMM mechanism with regard to Transport and Transport Services provided by the Multinational Maritime Strategy Coordinating Centre (POOSTHAM)’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and all of the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u278	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u279	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-22-S1-commons.u280	With the agreement of the House at 11.58 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 23 June 2016 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: topical questions debate.
