ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-12-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Thursday 13 October 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The No. 53/10-10-2016 topical question of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Fotinis Vakis, to the Minister of Rural Development and Food, regarding the concession to the Municipality of Corfu of the building where the IV Municipal Children's Station is housed. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 49/6-10-2016 by Evia MP of New Democracy Mr Simeon Kedicoglou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, concerning the unanswered questions about the tragedy in Aegina. 3. The Question No 48/6-10-2016 by MP Pireos of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the future of the Navigation Service. 4. The current question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity regarding the freezing of late debts in OAUs and ETAs. 5. The Question No 56/10-10-2016 by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the lack of teaching staff at the TEI of Athens. 6. Under number 47/6-10-2016, a topical question by Z' Vice President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, Potamios Spyridon Lykoudi to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the design for the protection of the public space in the center of Athens, since the cases of vandalism continue. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question under number 465/10-10-2016 by MP B' Athens of the Association of Centres Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about the need to redesign the services of the "TRAINOSE" to cover the Peloponnese. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Antonio Balomenakis, Member of Parliament, with number 54/10-10-2016, is a topical question to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism concerning the introduction of a framework for dealing with the uncontrolled expansion of the phenomenon "all inclusive" in tourism. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 50/6-10-2016 by MP Rethymnon of New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Kefaloyannis to the Minister of State on the legal status of a Cypriot company participating in its blog ‘AGEAN SA.’. 3. The Question No 51/7-10-2016 by MP Pellis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Ioannis Sahinidis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the "non-payment of compensation for the peach producers of the D. Apartment of the Pella Prefecture and the wider region from the Russian embargo". 4. The Question No 55/10-10-2016 by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the problem of the Greek Open University. 5. The Question No 57/10-10-2016 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the termination of an unjustified hostage by the workers of the Municipality of Heraklion, who were found successful by means of ASP competitions. 6. Under the number 45/5-10-2016, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Central Association of Central Banks Mr.Theodoras Megalonikou to the Minister of Health about the serious shortages of staff and funding at the National Rehabilitation Centre. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 16/3-10-2016 topical question by MP Evros of New Democracy, Anastasios Prussias Prussias, Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the support and development of the sophistication in Sufflis. 8. The 11/3-10-2016 topical question by MP B' Thessaloniki of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Georgios Arvanitidis to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism concerning the extension of the project "Support for SMEs active in the fields of Processing, Tourism, Trade - Services". 9. The 3/3-10-2016 topical question of the cancellation of the Patras-Pyrgos street, Mr. Jason Fotidas, Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a few communications to make to this House. The Standing Committee on Educational Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "Greek Institute for Research and Innovation and other provisions". Members of Parliament Evi Christophilopoulou and Olga Kefaloyannis request permission from a few days' absence abroad from 12 October to 14 October 2016, as well as Mr Megalomoustakas from 10 October to 14 October 2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-12-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-three students and students and two educational attendants from the 4th Municipal School of Thevas. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-12-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Requests for waiver of immunity: debate and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament, Mr Athanasios Papadopoulos and Mr Nikolaos Voutsis. The relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced its report of 30-9-2016 that the members of the Committee proposed by a majority that Mr Athanasios Papadopoulos should not withdraw immunity. The relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced its report of 30-9-2016 that the members of the Committee unanimously proposed that Mr Nikolaos Voutsi should not waive immunity. Under Rule 83 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the House does not enter the substance of the cases but only investigates whether the act on which the waiver of immunity is sought is linked to the Members' political or parliamentary activity or to prosecution, prosecution or indictment conceals political feasibility. In accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliament shall also decide by raising the hand or by resale on the request of the public prosecutor in accordance with the procedure referred to in the second subparagraph of Article 108(1). The floor shall always be given, on request, to the Member to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates. I would remind you that, in accordance with a decision of the Conference of Presidents of 23 March 2005, we have agreed on applications for waiver of immunity that the House should decide by roll-call vote and by roll-call vote. The vote, in which each colleague lists his name, his constituency and the parliamentary group to which he belongs, will be recorded in the respective minutes. That is how we respond to the provisions of Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, which requires a clear vote. After the debate on the cases of today's special agenda is concluded, we shall proceed to a roll-call vote, as I have described. The first case concerns Mr Athanasios Papadopoulos. The second relates to Mr Nikolao Voutsi. Is there any Member requesting the floor to waive immunity under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-12-S1-commons.u4	I'm asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-12-S1-commons.u5	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-12-S1-commons.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I was Director of the Second Pathological Clinic of Trikala Hospital. I was entrusted with being a member of the Selection and Crisis Council of National Health System doctors. We've been judging a head office at Trikala Hospital. An application for her cover was made by four doctors. According to the report, the first two were a doctor who applied for Volos, Trikalons and Lamia Hospitals. A month and a half before we judged, it became the case of the doctor's judgment at Volos Hospital and took a position as coordinator, but there was still the question of the trial of the Trikala Hospital. According to the law, we had to call the first two of us to examine them in the crisis committee. The doctor who took the place at Volos Hospital did not come. The hospital administration contacted Volos Hospital and we were indeed confirmed that the doctor had already taken the place at Volos Hospital. We thought, therefore, that since the law did not come, it was not interested in the position, and we proceeded to judge the second director in the evaluation. The question, then, is that me and the chairman of the Scientific Council, the director of the cardiological clinic, continue, according to the court of Trikalon Hospital, to refer ourselves to why the doctor who took the place at Volos Hospital thought he was wronged by the fact that he was not at the same time a director of Trikala Hospital. So the issue is a political one. It is not political in the sense that it is about my political activity, but about the fact that the House has already decided, following reports by many Members throughout Greece, that it is not possible to criminalise the freedom of opinion and the judgment of the members of the electorate. This House adopted this legislation last year in Article 36 of Law No.4368 and that is why on the political issue of this ongoing matter, I do not think I should be referred back, because the message that all doctors will receive in a similar case is that they should not accept taking part in crisis councils, as their persecution for their freedom of opinion and judgment will be threatened on them. That is why I would ask you to consider the political issue, which has now been decided by law, not to continue my persecution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-12-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Papadopoulos. Is the second request for waiver of immunity by a Member asking for the floor, in accordance with Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-12-S1-commons.u8	I'm asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-12-S1-commons.u9	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-12-S1-commons.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I could not speak, because either way, the committee's opinion is unanimous. However, because you do not know, even in summary, what this indictment was really about, it is very good for the moment and for the future that the Chamber should know a few things, because we must combat the tendency to criminalise political life, which leads directly to anti-democratic and anti-parliamentary perceptions and practices, by invoking the law. One of our fellow citizens therefore asks me for last treason, on the basis of an extensive text, which I repeat would be good - for reasons and teaching purposes and for us to know - to be aware of the Bureaus, the parliamentary groups or whoever has access to it. It's against the Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras. Amongst references to masturbations, for Jewish world conspiracy, for omissions and policies that led the country to bankruptcy, and so on, it is for me too, because, as President of Parliament, I have not kept to the Committee on the Truth for Debt, which was set up in the previous period of the Parliament. I would therefore like to say a few words on this point, because it is important for us to know. We know that at every time of this House the House has appointed its committees, and this has been done either way, at the summit which we have just closed, that is to say, on the issues of new ones or on the issues before us, such as German allowances and so on. The procedure has been in place for the respective committees. After all, it has become a subcommittee of the competent Standing Committee. However, that committee had been made in accordance with Article 98. He did not have any Member of Parliament as a member, as a participant, anymore of the President at the time of Parliament. It had produced a work, which had been made in two forms, two findings or draft findings, both for debt as a whole and for the loan agreement - a summer memorandum. They made two documentaries anyway. These documentaries were at the disposal of the House, they have also shared with the people, they are at the disposal of the government. Any positive analyses were made - because there were - by authoritative scientists at the Government's disposal for the debt debate. There was no reason - in fact, since this committee has already changed to a political union, which calls for contact with the people and further sues on next issues - that the House, in its composition, should continue to maintain and maintain this committee. These self-evident things which either I had spoken to the Bureau of the Parliamentary Foundation for Parliament and the Republic, presenting the former President of the Parliament, or to the Conference of Presidents, are, in any event, considered to be elements which, by the way, the President of the Parliament has helped me, so that the country suffers and suffers what exists. So the indictment of the most recent treason is defined in relation to this issue, and I repeat that it is within the limits of incomprehensible, inviolability with a number of issues. When we discuss the revision of the Constitution, Mr President, and Article 86, which obviously needs to be transformed, changed completely, so that the people have the view of the legal feeling and equality of Members, we must have all this experience of so many years from this House of the way in which monthly reports are submitted and assessed, in a systematic way and intergroup to assess it and indeed listen to what we have to hear about the future of this country. Excuse me for using your time, but it's good to put some things in public too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-12-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-12-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, could you give me the floor, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-12-S1-commons.u13	Here, Mr. Papatheodorou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-12-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, in relation to the cases under discussion today, we are very often in the face of the phenomenon of the Special Committee on Parliamentary Ethics of the House to discuss specific documents, which are completely absurd or irresponsible. Many members of the committee have stressed this. Of course, on the other hand, we heard Mr. Tsipras yesterday saying that there are too many arguments about alpha, beta, gamma, delta. I hope it is not what we are talking about today for President Voutsi. On the other hand, there must also be one, if not the direction, at least to the public prosecutors that, in the name of the principle of legality, there must be no pleadings which are empty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-12-S1-commons.u15	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-12-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-12-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Fotella, are you covered because of locality?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-12-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, we have two cases today which we have to decide on. In Mr. Voutsi's case, I'm not ruining any saliva or time, because I don't need to. I wonder, in fact, that it took five minutes to convince us. We're all convinced. You didn't have to. As far as Mr Papadopoulos' case is concerned, I have been in exactly the same position as Mr Papadopoulos. But the case, as he himself has told us in committee, has nothing to do with the exercise of parliamentary duties and it is not a question of political persecution. He said so and claimed it himself in committee. The whole point is that there is a later law, which says that these people should not go accused. First of all, this law does not reject all cases. So the point is that we right now do not have the right to go into the case and see if it is the ones that are rejected. This particular one is one of the ones included in the law and will be rejected when he goes to the audience. However, if we are currently in the court's position, we will simply be outlawed. Don't do this one more time today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-12-S1-commons.u19	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-12-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-12-S1-commons.u21	Here, Mr. Kourakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-12-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, first of all I think it has become a bad start, as only Members of Parliament who are concerned about the request for immunity to be lifted. However, since Mr Fotellis referred to the substance of the debate that I am chairman of the committee, I must say that I, too, have suggested that Mr Papadopoulos should not be removed, not because he is related to his political action, but because there was a later law which relieves the members of the committees. There is no object. Let's make up our minds about something that this House has legislated. That is what I wanted to say, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-12-S1-commons.u23	We won't say that. The physicist will say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-12-S1-commons.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, there will be a roll-call vote on this item. A list has been drawn up with the names of colleagues for requesting the waiver of immunity. Every colleague will vote next to the Members' names on whom the waiver of immunity is sought. The person who votes in favour of the waiver of immunity takes note of his preference by the name of the Member and in the column 'NAI', that is to say, 'NAI' to the request of the prosecutor requesting the waiver of immunity. He who votes against the lifting of immunity notes next to the Member's name and to the 'NOV' column respectively 'NOV'. The voter will take note of it in the respective ballot column. Every Member of Parliament will be named, his constituency and the parliamentary group to which he belongs and will sign it, because the vote is rolled out in accordance with Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure. Subsequently, with his name on the list of colleagues, he will deliver the ballot to my fellow Members, Ioannis Sarakiotis, from SYRIZA and Apostolos Vesyropoulos from New Democracy, who will sign it and announce that the MP has voted. After the end of the vote, the votes will be counted by the Members I have mentioned, as will be the result of the votes, which will be recorded together with the protocol of vote in the Minutes of today's sitting. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-12-S1-commons.u25	So the House unanimously agreed. I would like to inform you that letters or fax numbers have been sent to the Bureau, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House, in which they give their vote. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the following count. MEP Mr Anastasia Gara from SYRIZA and Mr Ioannis Kefaliannis Kefaliannis from New Democracy are on the list. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-12-S1-commons.u26	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-12-S1-commons.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned, and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-12-S1-commons.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of a roll-call vote on the request for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament. A total of 176 Members voted. On the case of Mr Athanasios Papadopoulos: In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 20 Members voted. On the question of immunity, i.e. 'OH', 155 Members voted. "PARON" voted 1 Member. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected. [[The protocol and the roll-calls of the roll-call vote shall be recorded in the Minutes and shall be as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter pages 32a and 32b]] On the case of Mr Nikolaos Voutsi: In favour of waiver of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', no one voted. On the question of immunity, the House adopted 176 Members. 'PARON' voted no one. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-12-S1-commons.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-12-S1-commons.u30	With the consent of the House at 13.17 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, 13 October 2016 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: topical questions debate.
