ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Accreditation of the quorum shall begin. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to announce to the House the news sheet on Thursday, September 1, 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1188/29-8-2016 topical question by MP Grevenes of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Beyalas to the Minister of Finance about the end of a trade in villages under five hundred inhabitants. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 1193/29-8-2016 of the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning the need for maintenance and promotion of the medieval city of Rhodes. 3. The 1183/23-8-2016 topical question by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister of National Defence, on the unjustified release of the frog unit from Agios Kosmas. 4. The question asked by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance about the progress of projects for the development of the former airport of Greece. 5. The question by number 1192/29-8-2016 of the Member of Parliament, Aitolakaranania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the exclusion from the associated aid, on the basis of an inappropriate limit of one hundred and twenty kilograms of milk per animal, for thousands of farmers with indigenous breeds of intensive grazing. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Chrysula Katsavria - Siropoulou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the establishment of a public IEK for adults with a view to special education. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1194/29-8-2016 topical question by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the subsecution of TEI Kilkis. 3. The question by No 1184/23-8-2016 of the Member of the Messinia of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Dimitrios Koukoutsis to the Minister of Finance regarding the taking over of electronic devices by the SKAI group. 4. The 1190/29-8-2016 topical question by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday (Egypt) Christophilopoulos to the Minister for Home and Administrative Reconstruction, on the exclusion of thousands of children from the country's children's stations. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 6101/10-6-2016 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMARK KEGEROGlou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the reduction of pensions by 60% for young pensioners carrying out any activity after retirement. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the articles, amendments and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "Agreements on Greek-language education, intercultural education and other provisions". I would remind you that yesterday's sitting was discussed and the bill was adopted at first instance. Today's session will discuss the articles and amendments of the bill as one unity. The procedure proposed is as follows: the rapporteurs and the special speakers will first speak on the articles and amendments, then the remaining speakers on the principle, who have the right to speak on the articles and amendments. They will then take the floor for those who are enrolled in the articles and amendments, when the first two rapporteurs, Mr Thabaeus and Mr Charakopoulos, will speak. We've made a sum of times. I'm telling you it's going to be about eight to nine hours in total. Take note of the fact that in the meantime we will stop for two waivers of immunities which cannot be transferred next week because the deadlines are lost. I should therefore appeal to us to be consistent in the time that you will all have in eight minutes. I would ask the Minister representing the government once you are done with special speakers, if you are ready, to tell us from the parliamentary amendments, what are you going to accept, so that Members will know before they are placed. You will speak at whatever time you ask for the floor after the special speakers are finished. And we have contacted the ministers who will support the ministerial amendments to attend. The two have already replied, Mr Alexiadis and Mr Baltas, who will defend their amendments for five minutes. First of all, is there any objection to the proposed procedure? Oh, no. Thank you very much. Mr. Nikolaos Thebeus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. It has been done, both in committees and in yesterday's plenary session, one thing clear in relation to the Greek-language education and intercultural education bill, that, when we discuss issues relating to education, all the serious problems which have to do with the political, ideological and social identity of this huge issue are raised. This can be explained - and if you like - the difficulties, the ambiguities, the many 'presents' which have been heard yesterday during the debate on the principle. We understand these problems, precisely because the question of education is an issue that should be put to the finger on the type of suns. There's no other way. It is a bill, it is a case that everyone needs to make clear how they see the course of education and in this direction they should be clearly placed. And the question is not what position each one has. The issue is what education we are talking about, what interests should be served, what - if you like - is the essence of public free education, which, as SYRIZA and as government, we believe and fight in this country, without questioning the very clear constitutional right, as enshrined in Article 16 - that others in no way dispute - regarding public and private education. There have been arguments at yesterday's sitting that we want, today, essentially, to abolish private education. No common sense can stand up to that. We cannot talk about depriving some schoolmasters of the right to dismiss them whenever and whoever they want is an attempt to undermine private education. I think, therefore, that it would be better to have a clearer position on why they do not adopt this very simple issue that Babiniotis himself - I do not think he should be accused of being a socialist and Babiniotis - has signed with the relevant decision of the Legal Council of State, that the request for dismissal should be justified, as a follow-up to the Diamantopoulou Act, fully justified and not abusive, controlled by a service council. That's exactly what Babiniotis has signed. So I think that the crucial point is precisely that. Let's take a seat. I will not go into what has been said yesterday about a number of politicians who are not part of the Left, who have clearly taken a stand on the question of private education, utility, permanentity, if possible private teachers and how this upgrades education. I think, therefore, that political responses are still pending in the legislative debate on this matter. We come to the issue of Greek-language education, which does not really become a revolutionary incision. We are trying to set up a series and rules of operation in a game that was inconsistent and which, if anything, had to go into the elementary class of public education in Greece today. That's exactly what we're doing. Everything else, that's fragmentary, that there's no design, it's parasitic. Let's put one class first and - here's glorious field - then discuss the course. We are giving the bilingual schools the prospect, not the direct application. We know the problems, and we don't have any illusions. So this is in connection with the procedure of the articles on the question of Greek-language education. In articles from 1 to 18, we proceed to the arrangements for intercultural education. From Article 20 to Article 26, we also put a series of programmes in intercultural schools, upgrading, making an effort to operate the programme of experimental schools. On the question of Article 27 there has been a debate and everyone recognises that there is a problem. We don't say anything else here. Apply legality. Nothing more, nothing less. And I think that at this point we should all be clear. I have therefore referred to private education regulations and I believe that this is the crucial point that everyone will have to decide on who they are going to go and who they will finally leave. The question is not who closes the eye to the seventy thousand private teachers. The question is, at the moment, whether public control in private schools needs to be guaranteed. A number of views have been heard here. He even heard that SYRIZA is against freedom, and so it makes sense that he wants to put a brake on the immunity of some schoolmasters at the moment. So these are dangerous, if you want, opinions, they are bisexual views, they are civil war views, which are all they are doing, but with chewed words, that we are moving in a way that does not leave the state to intervene, and these people have the right to do what they want to do. There was a lot of discussion on the subject of special education. We clearly believe that the subject of special education is a matter that cannot have parallel roads. We believe clearly, and we never hid it, at a school for everyone. We believe that the teacher, and the one who has four years of special education, and the one who has four years in general school education and two years in postgraduate and doctorate, has the skills to teach. There are no premeditated things here. Let us make this clear. It is a perception of politics, and as such we call for controversy on this issue. I would therefore like to say on the crucial issue of special education, which everyone is crying about children with disabilities, that for the first time this government appoints nine thousand two hundred teachers in the field of special education, for the first time, as last year, teachers are entering school teachers next to children with disabilities, for the first time, with a social and political perspective, the issue of dealing with special education, which has so far been socially marginalised. This is the great reality that at least teachers and parents know her much better than we are in this Chamber. Colleagues, SYRIZA is voting, as in the first place yesterday, on the articles of the bill and the ministerial amendments tabled, and then on those of the ministers of the Ministry of Education, on the grounds that this bill is not a revolutionary change, but a necessity at this stage, in order to regulate a number of ambiguities and imperfections, but also to open up the way for a number of issues relating to social justice and democracy in the field of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, too. Mr Harakopoulos has the floor. After Mr Charakopoulos asked me - why he must attend a meeting at his Ministry - and I will give the floor to Mr Alexiadis for three - four minutes to defend his amendment. As far as I understand it, this will probably be accepted unanimously. Don't let the speakers start and go to the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating another draft law by the Ministry of Education without beginning, middle and last but not least, with last-minute amendments. The debate on Greek-language education takes place in the shadow of a painful development for the Hellenism of Bavaria. I am talking about the decision of the Municipality of Munich to withdraw the concession for the construction of a Greek school. This reminder has disturbed the relevant State Secretary in the Committee on Morphic Affairs. Obviously, there are time-consuming responsibilities for the delays in building the school complex. But, Mr Secretary, and you personally made commitments, you set timetables and failed to respect them. You told us there would be a new chance. I wish. As I told you, we are at your disposal, as a Qualified Opposition, if you consider that we can contribute to overthrowing this negative development. With arrangements for Greek-language education, the government puts an end to Greek-language schools abroad. And that is what is happening at a time when young families are being emigrated to Germany in particular. One of the criteria, they say, of their choice of location was the operation of Greek school. Our aim should be the bilingual schools that offer access to higher education in both the host country and the country, thereby giving the children of the relatives the opportunity to take a career either in the country where they live or in Greece, if they want to return. What is incomprehensible, ladies and gentlemen, especially today is the government's insistence to save and well continue to send teachers with a fee, burdening the state budget, when there are teachers, wives of Greeks or foreigners, who can teach without a bonus. If there is, as the State Secretary responsible told us, a secret price in Bavaria, why does he not address the issue in this state and choose by means of a general provision to deprive them of the possibility of posting teachers without a bonus, which is not charged to the state budget, to all the other Greek schools abroad? In the third chapter with the regulations on higher education, the collection of debts by teachers is also promoted through the DU. In addition, the limitation shall be 20 years. It should be clarified that there is no retroactive retention of dividends of companies involving teachers. We cannot vote on it unless there is a clear prediction of the non-retroactiveness of the dividend arrangement. Of course, in the shadow of the rain of resignations of members of the foundation councils, denounced their reparations from the present government, the leadership of the Ministry of Education with amendment, after eternal students, also restores those who do not care to register for two consecutive six months. The regulation on private education in the fourth chapter reflects the government's negative attitude towards the private sector. He forgets that the tens of thousands of families who choose to send their children to private schools in the majority of them belong to the middle class and do so at the cost of their family budgets, because they are not satisfied with public education and are looking for something better, something more for their children in private education. You, instead of raising public education, are now a year and a half deceiving it further. And now, with mania of ideals, you are trying to effectively cancel the two main advantages of private education. Firstly, the possibility of selecting and treating educational staff and, secondly, the possibilities of diversifying the training programme in place. In addition, with last night's legislative improvement you deprive private schools of the opportunity to offer tutoring courses. Article 28 essentially simulates private teachers after two years. The reference to the trade union committees, the Ministry of Education and Teachers' Committees which will judge the legality of dismissal shall refer to past practices which have not in practice worked. In any case, we do not believe in substituting justice by executive committees. Every worker has the opportunity to find his point of view in Greek justice. In the same sense, yours should also be the Ministry of Health to set up a committee to check whether or not a private hospital fired a doctor and so on. In addition, the permanentization of private teachers deprives young and worthwhile teachers of increased qualifications. The draft law has been added to the layout, according to which a private teacher can be dismissed as a result of an inadequacy in the performance of his duties, established by the relevant Staff Board and based on at least two service reports drawn up by the Director of Education relating to at least two consecutive teaching years. However, without a system of evaluation, where will the training director responsible be supported to draw up the staff report, which will again pass through the supervision of the staff council? And why should two reports be drawn up and indeed relate to at least two consecutive teaching years? One isn't enough? The truth is that the government is allergy to any assessment of either public or private schools, and that is why it has effectively abolished the evaluation of the education system and the teachers by the school advisors for their teaching and teaching competence and by the school directors for their service consistency and response. As far as the amendment on language schools and centres is concerned, I would like to tell you to listen to the request from representatives of the area and to withdraw it in order to have a dialogue which they denounce has not taken place. With regard to the irregular degrees, as I said, after 2008 and the great noise that then became full-fledged on the subject, no one can invoke ignorance. If these TEEs were still working and some were to use them to get titles with excellentness, so that they could be appointed to the public by way of others, we cannot consent to their legalisation. Finally, with the amendment of special education, the ombudsmanship of IT61 and IP71 graduates and the inclusion in the special education course without any special qualification or, rather, with a unique qualification, there is a risk that there will be a complete deregulation, degradation and dismantling of special education. Because the Minister said half of the truth yesterday, that even today teachers are being seconded without specialization in special education, I would remind you that the provision was only if the lists of substitutes for special treatment are exhausted and only for parallel support. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Even the last part of the amendment, which concerns vocational education and which one might find positive elements, such as the integration of special vocational schools and high school schools, is a fragmentary regulation of the multitude of special vocational education space and leaves important topics, such as the functioning and outlet of the graduates of the special training and training workshops. In essence, the Minister is empowered, as appropriate, by Ministerial Decisions to regulate, undo, and ultimately to formulate all the above issues. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, this bill also confirms that the government is facing the area of education with ideology and obsessed, which has referred to the past of the 1980s, which is responsible for most of the country's diseases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u5	It has the floor for five minutes - and I hope that it will not take so much - Mr Alexiades to defend his amendment. Then the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Ilioopoulos, will take the floor. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. I won't need five minutes. I'll be very brief. After all, it is a matter which I think will have the consent of the whole Chamber. With an amendment of 639 and a special 60, we proceed to the concession to the Municipality of Cesarean for forty years of the exclusive use of four hundred and sixty-three acres. It's the site of the Cesarean Sniper. The purpose of the concession is to make use of it, so that we can maintain and promote this part as an area of historical memory of the National Resistance, as well as the creation of a park of recreation, entertainment and culture. It is very clear, as is apparent from the text of the amendment, that the building of buildings within this section of public property is prohibited. This legislative initiative comes to conclude a corresponding course of relevant provisions, which were initiated in 1984 by the then Minister of Culture Melina Mercouri, and is part of the policy already pursued by the Government with a concession to the Municipality of Agios Dimitrios of forty acres, with the concession to the Region of Attica in the bay of Attica, with the concession to the Region of Attica of the ‘refugees’ apartments and with the concession to the municipalities from Alimos to Varkiza of the coasts for recovery. It is a policy of exploiting and highlighting these sites, either for historical or other reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, may I ask the Minister a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u8	Ma'am, what do you want to ask a question about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u9	Mr President, I would like to clarify the amendment because the Minister is going to leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u10	Here, Mrs. Kerameau, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u11	Minister, we have been informed that there was some court dispute over this property. We would like you to tell us whether this has been resolved irreversibly in order to take a position on the amendment as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, too. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u13	From the relevant services, which have brought us the amendment, we do not have the information that there is a legal or any matter. Of course, anyone can claim anything from the Greek public. However, there are the relevant departments of the General Secretariat of the Public Property, which have proposed the amendment to us and said that there is no legal problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u14	Yes, sir. You answered and didn't answer. Mr. Eliopulus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. There would not have been - and we said yesterday - no chance of ever voting for any bill which is entitled 'Greek-language and intercultural education' and, indeed, from a government whose sole purpose is to reduce Greek education, reduce everything it has to do with the concepts 'national' and 'Greek', which it wants to eliminate from any level of Greek education. Of course, she wants to do the same for the education of the Greeks abroad. The first part of the bill, which you call "Greek-language education", concerns the education of the Greeks, as we said, abroad. And where we would expect education to be upgraded abroad for children who with your own policies all these years have sent immigrants to foreign countries, we see that there are just some articles that create new agencies, new institutions. And where one would expect that things will get better, because in these new institutions scientists will be able to help training abroad, and again the Minister will have a key, primary and absolute role. In other words, we need to vote on a bill that in every article tells him that the Minister is above all, that everything can be changed and regulated by a ministerial decision. That's in all the articles of the bill, no matter what kind of instruments they're recommending. It is our view - and we say this again today - that education must first and foremost have a national and Greek orientation and, from there on, offer the appropriate supplies to the Greek people to get out of the labour market either in Greece or in the countries in which they live. There is, of course, no care for education in the North continent, in East Rome, in Istanbul, in the Netherlands. These, of course, are places that you have written out all these years. All you have to do is deal with the Greeks in Germany. You do well, of course, and you do. We're not talking about that. That's where you've been sending your own people all these years to get multiple wages. The Minister said yesterday an astronomical figure that a teacher who has been teaching in Germany over recent years may have received. He talked about 1,1 million euros. It's an incredible number, which people of yours take, who have been slaughtered all these years to take a place abroad. So you want, with the specific arrangements, to bring these people back and take your own people to make these astronomical and mythical sums for all Greeks. As in all your bills, you want to help your own people. The Minister - we have said again - becomes sovereign and regulator of everything. From Article 20 to Article 26, intercultural education issues are regulated. As far as intercultural education is concerned, we have said so in detail yesterday. We are talking about the flooding of Greek schools by twenty-two thousand illegal immigrants who will undermine the education received by Greeks. The Greeks will be forced, where there will be coexistence with children of illegal immigrants, to remain behind and to fall behind in education. There's a lot to be said about private schools. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, the SYRIZA rapporteur, but also of all parties, is involved in private schools. New Democracy's rapporteur and Mr Vorides had come yesterday, all New Democracy Members had come to support private schools. On the other hand, SYRIZA MPs came to support private schools teachers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Eliopulus, wait a minute. Please, one of the advisers will inform one of the Ministers to come to the descents. Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u17	So there is a battle, who is more Marxist than the other, who wants to impose Marxist attitudes on education based on the articles on private schools. "Eat", then, for who is with the teachers and who is with the owners. But you are not saying anything about the substance of the matter. So we as Golden Dawn are with the students, whether they study in public schools or study in private. The Greek state must, under the Constitution, have a very good, excellent free education. That's the beginning. From there on, anyone who wants to take their children to a private school is their right. The Greek taxpayer, however, with the taxes he pays, his reward benefits, in a way, are good public education, public health and all the goods he needs to enjoy. We have to give them to him perfectly and free of charge. I'm on special lawsuit. We've been sent dozens, hundreds of e-mails. In fact, I would like to submit to the Minutes one of the things that came to us last night. You didn't convince these people of your announcements. And how can you convince yourself? Some naives can only convince with his announcements every time the Minister, the friend. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Panagiotis Iliopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We're talking about kids who have some particular problems. These kids are tied to their teachers and they want to have certain teachers. They cannot be appointed alternate teachers every year and constantly change children from those who know. They have some peculiarities that we should respect. We must respect the needs of these children and offer them a special education. This training can only be offered by people who have studied this subject. These people should be appointed permanently and know the school chosen each year and only there to serve, so that the children also know with whom teachers will continue this particular learning development. We are against the bill, clearly, in all his articles. It's a bill, like everything you've brought, pasale. It's a clipboard bill, which is all it does is define the minister in everything. With a ministerial decision, everything is changing and regulated. This will change very soon. He wants the Minister to make himself Caesar and regulate what it has to do with Greek education. Well, that won't pass!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u18	The Special Buyer from the Democratic Association Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now completing the debate on the draft law on Greek-language and intercultural education. Basically, we are legislating about the unscrupulous Hellenism, about the Greeks in all the geographical coordinates on the planet earth. We are legislating for the preservation of our cultural heritage, our language, our relationship with the mother country, the thousands of teachers who offer Greek-language education in difficult, now, living conditions and without, of course, particular motives. For all the above, for the worthy - I would say - of this debate, the bill should be a simple and, of course, non-existent one, free of articles and amendments, which do not resolve matters of direct and urgent legislative intervention. As a Democratic Participation we believe in dialogue, consultation and the effort of synthesis and we will insist on this. We therefore ask the government to stop considering this dialogue as a pretext. Gentlemen of the government, you use as an alibi findings of the dialogue arbitrarily and without the participation of the EPP and of course of the ERC to put to the vote issues relating to the core of this dialogue and, I would say, further discussion, but also of course consultation. We have seen this in the bill on research in kindergartens, and we are seeing it today with the article on private education and the amendment on special education. Minister, both you and the State Secretary responsible have mentioned, I would say, positive policies of the PASOK Government on intercultural education, education for Greeks abroad, special education, private education, support for education in general. I would remind you that in relation to your government's programming statements in January 2015, but also in September 2015, there is a long distance between words and works, words and commitments, words and actions. After all, we are still waiting for the law that will abolish the Memorandums and the act that will delete the debt. In a few days, we'll hear the first bell. Believe us, now sounds the bells of problems, of functional gaps, of five and a half thousand fewer entries in kindergartens, of the hostage work of teachers, of unacceptable buildings and of a number of issues that are going on, for which all of us and you personally believe that we are giving a common struggle - and we should fight together - to resolve them. Administratively, the battle of the selfish for education is lost every year. There are very few, I would say, exceptions in 1999, in 2007. Today this battle results. A series of service changes, transfers, secondments, licenses have been completed and electronically captured, we hope of course and reliable. On the other hand, you ask for the loopholes from the training directorates, which are being processed and altered arbitrarily by regional administrations. And finally, the office gives you the gaps in the central councils. Minister, at some point we must trust the training staff, evaluate them and invoke them for any intentional mistakes and omissions they may have. Is it possible to send a schedule for recording operational gaps before 1 September, and in a strict and completely binding manner? And this timetable is being run by your executives, who were leading in the occupation of address at other times, they left the interview to choose today, of course, what they had reported at the time. Do you know, Minister, what happens every day in the training directorates from recruitment and cancellation of meetings of regional councils? Things are simple, Minister. We have a change in the working hours of primary schools and kindergarten, a reduction in specialty hours, a reduction in the working hours of high school from thirty-five to thirty-two hours, as in high school, a deterioration in the operation of full-day school. All that, I'd say, the package creates a surplus of teachers. How many of them are numerical, will be captured very soon. However, the question is whether, with these interventions, we are serving the quality of education, the needs of the Greek family, the biological needs and the tolerance of teachers, the right to the work of thousands of infinite teachers. Let me remind you of something from the past about how to appoint teachers and private education arrangements. The lack of dialogue has created huge problems and inconsistencies on the part of the government. Today we are simply telling you that, as far as private education is concerned, you will come to the debate to see the substantial changes to Law 682 together. With a line, however, simply today we could restore normality and supervision to the Ministry of Education. Also, Minister, it is unacceptable in paragraph 8 that public teachers take up positions of unemployed private teachers. As far as special education is concerned, our proposal is to withdraw the amendment that will be implemented in the next year and come to the debate in order to find the best solution, which will serve the quality of the education provided, support its families, respect the professional rights of teachers in the IP61 and IP71 sectors. As far as pensions are concerned and the error in the service that has arisen, the question is that these teachers, who are now called upon to return to their schools, are invited to return without any specific legislative framework. I mean, they're returning to their organic position. By what process will their payroll be relaunched? They should not be found - I would say here - in remote areas and without their wages being paid. He needs attention. Mr Minister, we have tabled two amendments. The number 652 relates to the recognition of a pre-service for primary and secondary education in relevant subjects up to seven years before the appointment of a non-public sector for their grading development. We are talking about, in other words, purely for statistical purposes. It is happening throughout the public sector and it is very clear - I would say - that it is unfair not to apply to teachers. The second, number 653, gives the right to transfer to the education of civil servants holding a certificate of appointment to education if there are empty organic posts. It is a regulation, I would say, which does not cause any public spending and I believe it will be accepted. Finally, I would like to make a comment on the legal change that came last night. You are forbidden to use places in private schools this afternoon and you are thus driving, Minister, three thousand workers in unemployment. You're gonna have to see it. You should re-evaluate it and withdraw it. Ladies and gentlemen, we are completing another discussion of the Ministry of Education's draft law with the wish that the political leadership does not continue to serve the teaching principle of'repealing learning', unrelated articles, unrelated and sudden amendments, because the level of your performance will be below the base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr Colleague, for keeping time. The debate is being followed by the debate on the special left of the Bureau by the Mayor of Cesarean, who has not been able to hear the good news from Mr Alexiadis. But he has it in retrospect. I hope, Mr Mayor, that the House, by a large majority, will ratify your municipality's request and the Government's suggestion. Mr. Tassos of the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. The issues of education, of course, are key issues for every society, because it is about the relationship of man and the process of knowledge with the environment - its environment, namely - and with basic philosophical issues, if our existence takes precedence and our conscience follows, that is, the objective world exists outside and beyond our conscience and our conscience is the reflection of this real world or, on the contrary, whether the real world is a creation of our conscience. We, you know, have a clear position, this dialectical materialistic concept that the real world exists outside and beyond the conscience of man and the conscience of man is nothing but a reflection of this world. This, of course, also has its implications for the way we approach and the issues of education in general and training in particular. The main difference is individualization and individualism, while on the other hand it is socialization and group action. So these issues are key issues, as you can see, and of course they also appear in this bill. As far as Greek-language education is concerned, there are problems. I had the opportunity to see them very closely when I visited Budapest a few months ago and discussed the issues of education with the relatives. There are shortcomings in teaching staff, deficiencies in means. And these issues, instead of being solved, are widened. Unfortunately, this bill does not move in the direction of solving the problems, but moves with an economic logic, that is, the resources that would also be given for Greek-speaking education, to be taken and given elsewhere. And it's known where they're going to be given. They'll be given to the lenders. They will be given the big capital to make big investments. That is why it introduces and opens the door even more wide at the entrance of other bodies, NGOs, the Church, legal and natural persons, organisations and associations, in the process of education, as well as establishing distance teaching with this economic rationale of saving resources. So no one can oppose the use of science and technology in the field of education, but in no case can this replace the physical presence of the teacher. So in the articles relating to Greek-language education, in Part I, that is to say, in most of the articles we vote for'residents' only because an effort is made but also incomplete and in any case it is not what we would like it to be. Of course, in Article 2 concerning this extension of the possibility of entrepreneurial activity in the field of Greek-language education, we will vote 'in favour' and, on the contrary, we will vote 'in favour' on the Greek-language certificate. In the other articles we shall vote 'the present'. As far as intercultural education is concerned, this is a necessity and we are generally positive. We can only be positive about that. Of course, we have emphasised it many times that declarations and genealogies are not enough, other measures are needed and not just educational. Because the refugee issue is a key issue, it is an issue on which our country has contributed to creating, because it is taking part in imperialist organisations such as NATO and the European Union, which have created the state of war in these countries from which refugees are fleeing, so there is a co-responsibility in creating the problem and therefore our country should contribute to resolving this problem. And the issues of training for these people and especially the young people who come here and need to stay in our country, because they are being excluded, because most of them don't want to stay here, want to go to other countries, but with the agreements and the more general behaviour of the European Union, which, of course, after having taken those who wanted to be cheap workers, does not need them and says 'do what you want','hold them in your country','send them back' - 'I know'swallow them, we don't care'. These people need to stay here. They should therefore have the rights that every person has and within these rights are the issues of education and education. So in most of these articles we are voting 'in favour'. Only in Article 26 shall we vote 'the present'. In the third part, which concerns HEIs, it is well known that business activity in universities and in general in education cannot exist. Those who teach and researchers should be permanent and full-time without any business. On the other hand, it taxes the fines they get. That is why we are voting 'at present'. Now, in the regulations on primary and secondary education, there are Articles 28 and 29 which satisfy some of the demands of private-education workers. Of course, they do not solve the problem of private education in any way. And our position is well known, that education cannot be a commodity for sale for profit. And that, of course, is not the case with this bill. On the other hand, the government has expressed its position that private education must exist. We say that it is not possible, as is health, for education to be a merchandise, and that means that those who teach these structures are also subject to similar behaviours by the owners of private schools. In any case, because some requests are accepted in these articles, we will vote 'in favour'. In the rest, we are voting 'the present'. There are some amendments that are important. One is that of special education, which we are vertically opposed, because once again, in a logic of saving resources, it leaves people who have a degree in this work, and it effectively undermines special education and training, with people who have received a very small specialization in this matter and have not studied the subject. Finally, with regard to the amendment on Cesarean, we can only be positive, because it really justifies the struggles, both those who spilled their blood there and those who fought, the municipal authorities and the people of Cesarean, who struggled to preserve this space as a place of historical memory and in general as a place where the people will really know their history, but also enjoy the natural environment that surrounds it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u22	We move to the special speaker from the river, Mr. George Mavrotas. Come on, Mr. Black, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will start the speech on the articles and amendments with some comments on the legislative improvements that came yesterday, in particular on the fourth legislative improvement which comes and relates to Article 28, where it says that 'it is not permissible for private schools to be united with schools and centres of foreign languages'. This is something that was in the original version of the bill, then she left. We have not discussed anything like this in the Committee on Culture. I do not know whether the Ministry here means that private schools will be able to have these activities or will not be able to have them or will not be able to co-operate with their respective schools and centres of foreign languages. There will be a clarification here, because if it is true that private schools will not have such activities, I think that it is quite a puppet that has not been discussed at all and that this thing will retrospectively come as a legislative improvement. Unless it's a "kidney" for tutoring. We shall now proceed to the amendments. I shall start with the amendment that has been made to Article 30 on care. The first paragraph sets out a suffocating bureaucratic framework, a bureaucracy that we believe will choke down small care centres and damage public services. In the second paragraph, we are clearly in favour of overtime paid for holidays and Sundays, like all workers. There's no question of that. We see that with a legislative improvement the irrationality of being paid for in the holidays has left, because otherwise those who make summer departments should receive increments for the work they do. We find it a little odd that the employees get paid on vacation if the school is closed. In the third paragraph, on the issue of twenty-teaching hours, we think there is a need for further consultation with all the parties involved, because it is clear that teachers in schools are also working at home. Correction of authors, preparation of topics, examinations, etc. It is therefore necessary to recognise the time spent beyond the hours of work in the school, for all these preparatory, writing, etc., so forty-four weeks there can be a discussion on how to reduce them to twenty-one hours in the classroom. However, the viability of the company must also be taken into account, otherwise these businesses will be shut down and employees will lose their jobs or resort to flexible forms of work. That is why we say that we would need more fermentation in this particular matter and consultation, which has not happened. The amendment concerning the Hellenic Institute for Research and Innovation refers to the disbursement of the first instalment from the country's contract and the European Investment Bank. Here we recognise the need for first funding to be available to a few young scientists, so that we do not lose them. However, I should ask you whether it is eligible to provide funds under this contract outside the institution. That is to say, if the scholarships and all of this are eligible, they should go under the auspices of the GSP, when they should normally be under the auspices of the ELIDEC. He'll tell us, I imagine, Mr. Fotakis more about this. With regard to the newspapers in the 'Egyptio', which comes with a parliamentary amendment, I should like to point out that this is what is known as the practice, so that there is no cost that the respective ministerial amendment would require. Regarding the training of the church’s clergy and populist officials, I was impressed that this amendment did not come from Members of the New Democracy, as anyone would have expected, but came from members of the SYRIZA and not from the Ministry itself, the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, which would be normal to come. In other words, I wondered, with the knowledge of the relevant matters in so many detail, the relationship with the ecclesiastical issues that it entails. So here's where I broke the stereotypes I had in mind. Let's go to the S.H.I.E. amendment. Here, let's say we have to introduce a new term. As we call'multi-project', we must also introduce the term'multi-computer'. This concerns a number of issues. Paragraph 1(b) of the first article prohibits the movement of teachers, if the destination is the HEALTHs of Attica and Thessaloniki. I would like to make a remedial proposal here. I do not see why these movements should be banned if the AEIs, Minister, are also the ones from the Attica Prefecture. Why should someone from the University not be able to go to the Economic University and tombalin? I understand that there is absolutely no deforestation of the provincial universities, but from a university in Attica I think there is no problem of moving to another HEI in Attica. We could also set a time limit on these movements for three years, five years, so that there is more comfort in the general assemblies to give the corresponding permits, that is, there is more mobility. Below, in Article 2, you proceed with the abolition of self-deleting on account of non-registration in two semesters, as was the case in Law 4009. Here we have to say, "God!" That's not even what pond students should do? Don't even write it once a year? It will only be enough to register them in the first year. This will create a number of problems in our view. If the registration obligation is abolished every year, how will each department know how many of its students are? How will the various metrics per student needed for the evaluation of the departments and universities be calculated? We will have two categories of students: the registered and the non-registered, but also the unregistered, and we will lose the booze. We will not know how many students are the strength of each department, what situations each secretariat should prepare, whether they will vote or not. In general, we believe that this provision will make things a little more blouse in the universities, who will not know how many students have. In the article - again in the same multimodality - for the self-powered TEIs are the third amendment that you make for the powerless sections of HEIs and TEIs within three months. By L.4386/2016 you have put this very provision in Article 57(2) and amended Article 39 of Law 4186/2013. In July, two months ago, with Law 4405, you took this paragraph off and now it's coming back in. Wait for it to come back. And the question is where we are talking about, and what part of this whole process is going on? We'll wait for Mrs. Deputy Minister to tell us. For the secondments of teachers to parties, something I asked Mr. Philly about yesterday, I didn't hear him say anything. He can then say it in his speeches. I would remind you that he sent a document asking the parties to inform who they are seconded to. Answer the river and the PASOK. The other parties didn't answer. And the other parties well, but neither is SYRIZA? Is he ignoring his minister or are there so many seconded teachers and he doesn't want to run away? And what does the Minister do? Does she accept that? Anyway, in most articles on Greek-language and intercultural education we are positive. In the other provisions, however, we are reluctant to be negative. We consider the amendments to be a consolidation of a practice of misdemeanour. A brake on the Rules of Procedure of the House, Article 88, which is systematically violated by the unnecessary amendments introduced, would be the vote on the amendments by a qualified majority, so that this bad habit can be averted a little, or else we should vote for a law which says that under this law we must apply the Rules of Procedure of the House, which has begun to run a long way out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr. Black. Mr. Zouraris has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u25	My respects, Mr. President. I would like to say about Socrates' famous answer to Kalliklis. Kalliklis says in "Gorgia": "Re, you say the same thing a life, again and again." It follows Socrates' famous response: 'I will say the same', that is 'these things about them' and 'when things change, I will change'. Things haven't changed. So I come back to 'these' - without saying them again - that is, the problem of teaching for our schools in the occupant of the inhabited Greeks. Therefore, cultural issues, as I said, cannot be regulated with the magicals of Lefakis and the recipes for minced meat or with the use instructions for children of nine years of electric coffee maker, because I suspect that in California the electric cafeteria for Greek children is no longer an electrical, but an electronic and space coffee maker. So this 'Burdistan' has to end. Slowly we have to see it. These pages must be removed from the books, as we said, so that the children can go and Richo and Seferis can be taught about your right Greek or texts, Mr. Minister, which was at "ELETERTERROTYPTIA" and I liked them very much, when we were next to - next door, of course. The ‘salamary’ of minced meat, etc., must be terminated. for the nine-year-olds and the worst for the Fricantella who hated the carols. If that's possible! Since this morning, I have been called by several priests of the Patriarchal Patriarchates and begged for something that concerns the Prime Minister of National Education, but also the rest of you, my ministers. There is this: should a legislative arrangement be able to return to the possibility for priests only of the three Patriarchates - perhaps even Antioch, it was not, it was one of three - that they could be extended without a pendant, why could they be left without a priest-in-law, which falls under the three Patriarchates, Alexandria, Constantinople and Jerusalem, if they do not return to the status of the possible extension? Please see it, whether it's done or at least view it in the next two-month setting, because it says it looks like the Ecumenical Patriarch has also sent you a letter. The other point is the reason for Article 27, which I will tell you that because I do not understand anything at all, I asked for the contribution of Fortsakis and Andreas Loverdos, who are colleagues of universities. As I understand it, it shows that the law regulation of Philie in May 2016 was reasonable and calm, and perhaps now, as interpreted by the Law of 2000 and not of 2016, it may have been that colleagues who belonged to companies or engaged in free business have been obliged to pay now since 2000, while the Friends Act of May 2016 does not provide for it. So the solution I am proposing is the most appropriate one, to ask Fortsakis and Loverdos to tell me what to vote, to ask you to vote, and then I shall put lots. "And upon the garments they put lots." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u26	Me too, Mr. Zurari. We close with the Special Rapporteur from the Association of Centres, Ms. Theodora Megalo-Economics. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as we have seen from yesterday's sitting, most of us object and disagree with this bill. In general terms, I and the Centroon Association fully agree with the Minister's initial thought of dealing seriously with the issues of Greek-language education and the education of refugees. Among the other issues that concern us in the bill are Articles 1 and 19. They're moving in the right direction. But, as I pointed out in detail in my speech yesterday, there was not enough attention during the drafting of the bill, so that it could be upgraded and not ultimately degraded the teaching of the Greek language in the schools of the same family. And I think that should be the most important thing. Our children who live abroad above all must maintain their strong ties with Greece, language, history and culture, but unfortunately this bill failed to ensure this, Minister. Next, with regard to Articles 20 to 26, on intercultural education, I think it is a good move to upgrade intercultural schools to experimental intercultural schools and I hope that this change will yield the expected results. However, I cannot say the same for Article 27(1) where it specifies the limitation of the debts of teachers and lecturers to the PPE. From the outset, I opposed both the committee and yesterday in my speech. This article, despite the improvement that the Minister brought yesterday, in the middle of the night, is still problematic and suspicious. Nor can I fully agree with Article 28 on private schools, on how teachers are recruited and dismissed. Obviously a private school does not match any private business. It's controlled by the Ministry of Education. But we must not forget that it is also a private business. The state must take this seriously. To have the checks that it must have, but the excessive restriction on the dismissal of teachers, without any dialogue at all, on the one hand, will result in the start of the new school year finding the home of private schools in almost a war situation. On the one hand teachers, on the other hand school owners, possibly parents are in a conflict. What do you expect to do as a result? Should the school owners, the teachers, the parents? As a mother and as a grandma, I believe that schools should be an area of smooth co-operation, transmission and knowledge and not of controversy. It's not a ring the school. Also, at the last minute, last night, you don't allow the private school to coexist. Even that was surprising. And a move from the Minister for whom none of the school owners, who had come as bodies, had been informed. Of course, I can't fail to burn down Article 38 once again. It is the article by which, on all issues relating to refugee schools, only the Minister will decide. In other words, you ask, Minister, that we give you a white check, that you decide on your own what is going to happen to the refugees, how the schools will work. You gave us a situation from the accounting office about how much it costs. We don't know how much of the chauffeurs are. Thirteen thousand is it? Is that twenty-three thousand? Is that five thousand? You're the ones who determine how much they're studying. We don't know how much he is first. Your excuses are very good. You say it's an emergency, since we're at the beginning of the year. But everything you say to us, Minister, unfortunately we are not convinced. They don't convince me personally. The Minister even let the matter come to Parliament at the last minute. In a week, schools start. The refugee question, the refugee influx still remains. It may be to a lesser extent, but they haven't stopped. They're still on. We have been aware of these problems for a year. Today, August 31st, were you supposed to bring them to the vote? It is therefore an absolute choice for the Minister to deal with these issues at the last minute, to have the justification that time is pushing you and to ask us to give you full authorisation in white, to be able to do what you want. This is another tactic you have implemented in other times. We as the Central Association - and I personally - do not accept it. It had happened before. They gave you another time the SYRIZA order to go and negotiate. Take a white order, go to Europe, bring us what it is to bring us in the middle of the night. That's how you always do it. Finally, I would like to make a reference to the subject of the special education amendment. There have been huge reactions from all sides, and once again the teachers are turning against the Minister. And you know what the main problem is, so why are they turning against you? Because there was no dialogue on this matter. The amendment came in August, obviously there was no discussion with teachers of both general and special education, and we are all agreed that education is not an arbitrary area that we can do what we want. It's the future of Greece, it's about our children, our grandchildren. I cannot accept the best intentions on your part. I cannot justify why, for such important and serious arrangements, you have not made sure that you have spoken with the institutions, that you are properly informed of them. Overall, my view is that the bill leaves the impression of a rough process and all these things are being discussed today, on 31 August, to be implemented in early September. There is no clearer evidence than this as to how skeptical education is being treated at the moment by the government. Ladies and gentlemen, in principle we are voting 'at present' and on the articles we will be in detail. As long as Articles 27 and 28 are not amended or withdrawn, we are voting against them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, now listen to how we are going to proceed. I will give the floor to Mr Baltas, who has been here since this morning, to defend the two amendments relating to the operation of the theatres. Immediately afterwards, the Deputy Minister who is here will take the floor, not to speak, but to inform us which of the parliamentary amendments the Ministry of Education accepts. Then we will start the circle of parliamentary representatives interchangeably with colleagues, three colleagues, one parliamentarian, so that they do not go on bloc. I shall give the floor to Parliament, in accordance with the parliamentary order. Mrs. Vaki has told me anyway that she wants to talk lately. So I'll start with Mrs. Keramea.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u29	With the roll-call vote on immunity, which is at 12 o'clock, how will it be?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u30	Wait. At 12:30, and not at 12:00, because we usually have a break at 12:00 and until we get together, it goes 12:30 and we lose half an hour, which will be able to speak to colleagues about the bill - the procedure for waivers of immunity will begin. I imagine that in half an hour we will be done, so I would ask the Members of Parliament's secretariats to make sure that all Members are brought together between 12.00 p.m. and 12.30 p.m. so that we do not waste any time. Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, first Mr. Baltas will speak and then I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u31	Mr. President, if I understood correctly, then we'd go to the list?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u32	Yes, normally afterwards: one parliamentarian, three Members, if they so wish. If they do not want it, we shall proceed to the Members. Here, Mr Balta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. I'm not going to bother you. These are two simple amendments by the Ministry of Culture and Sport concerning theatres. One concerns the licensing and licensing procedures of the theatre buildings, where there are some delays in the adaptation of the theatres to the regulations imposed by Law 4229/2014 and we are simply giving an extension to the theatres so that they can adapt to these new conditions of tightening mainly with regard to protection. And because some theatres did not understand that and they did not start this at the right time, we give a time for this adaptation so that the theatres do not stop working, and the theatres are progressing completely properly and the amendment is conditional on the theater's operation. The second amendment concerns the theatres at another level. There has long been a question about the administrative and financial functioning of the theatres, a confusion of competence, let us say it, between the artistic director and the board of directors. And the gap, which in many respects seemed to exist, is precisely the establishment of an economic manager's seat, which will be subject to the board of directors, but which will all be very close to the artistic director. This is the way - let us call it this way - the day-to-day operation of the theatre in terms of economic and administrative matters and transparency and everything that is needed, so that the theatres can do their job properly. This amendment concerns the two state theatres, the National Theatre in Athens and the State Theatre of Northern Greece, as well as the National Lyceum. All that is already in existence regarding the qualities, qualifications and functions of the artistic director is clear in the amendment. That's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u35	Mr President, as regards what the Minister said, could I speak as a member of civilisation?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u36	Not as head of department. There is no such office within the Hall, Mr. Giuleka. You're an old colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u37	I'm also a registered speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u38	Yeah, I get it. Okay, you'll talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u39	I'd like some answers from the minister, because he'll leave later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u40	You will take the floor after Mrs. Minister for a minute for clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u41	But before he left.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u42	Mr Balta, if you're kind, stay a few minutes. You could also privately talk about whether it can be solved.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u43	Can't, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u44	Okay. Madam Minister, will you also make your speech, or will you speak only about the amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u45	I'll make my speech. He's the Minister here and he'll talk about the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u46	The speech is given by the Deputy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mrs. Ithanasia Anagnostopoulou for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a debate on education is by the nature of ideologically charged. It thrives, rallys, differentiates, creates social groups and parties as much as any other public word in our country and not just. However, since post-Civilisation, when democracy has been restored in this country, we have all agreed that education is a public asset, whether it is the public or the private. So this contract is suddenly broken or broken in recent years. I want to say one thing: we all know that the struggles for democracy in Greece coincided with the demands for education precisely as a public asset. So throughout the historic route this country has been the claim for education - a public good, a fundamental pillar of the claim for freedom. So this means that when this public good is undermined, democracy is automatically undermined. I would also like to say that, if education is to be a public good, whether public or private, what matters is those who live up to the rules and institutions - that is, students and teachers in this case - to be able to act in equality and freedom in a single institutional and regulatory framework. This was conspired throughout the Century. No one questioned it despite individual disagreements, disputes and conflicts between parties. Today conflict, conflict, confrontation are not 'public or private schools'. The controversy is whether education is a public good and is not a commodity. And it cannot be defined any differently unless teachers are not wardrobes of customers and perform duties fully free of charge. Let's take a few typical moments of Greek history, as illustrated in various things. In "wood came out of heaven" and Papastavros, who could expel a teacher, beyond the obvious love story of the film, etc., there is from behind one thing: the struggle for democracy in the 1960s, which is also reflected in this work. It is implicitly reflected, of course, in this work through what position a teacher has either at private or at public school at the time. Because we need to know, as I said before, that when it is undermined on one side, namely the private body, it is definitely undermined on the other. I would remind you that in junction some private schools decided to serve the public good and have teachers there and to offer them the freedom that the public school could not offer to them. Significant left teachers were found in these schools. After the relocation, this House - and the Minister said yesterday - decided that, whether private or public, this good is a public asset and one has the role of putting the regulatory framework in place and guaranteeing equality for pupils and freedom for educational staff, and that is the democratic state. So don't talk to us about soviet and all that, because it's totally irrational. The governments of either PASOK or New Democracy - and I have told this in this House - in previous years and despite customer relations, despite the fact that they have managed to build education as a public good that has also made excellent students, he has also made bad students such as all the education systems in the world and has made very important people. Now, from the crisis, that breaks. And if it breaks in the private sector, it means it'll break in the public sector too. Because industrial relations and this framework are not at all politically innocent. I mean, also, we're not the ones who want to bring soviet. And the Secretary-General for Human Rights and Transparency, Mr Kostis Papaioannou, showed this in an article the other day - and others have shown it, but I have recently said that - and the UN demands that education is a public good and not a commodity. So let us stop this debate and play with one thing which is very important. Since when are the people of this country, and above all the people who are not special - a handful of people have the economic power - they are all useless and we have to deal with them with suspicion, so that we can leave other windows? The regulatory framework for private education is therefore a matter for the democratic state once democracy has been restored. If we want to change something from the Constitution, from the contract we've all agreed, that's what we have to say. That is where we have to have the debate. But since we haven't said so, someone else has been bringing something out of the window with a thousand pretexts. To go now to issues relating to the Ministry in general, and especially higher education in particular. Always the primary choice of the Ministry of Education these months, over a year and a half, almost two years, was to maintain the conditions for the public debate on education. Because that is crucial: the public debate. But not in vitro, but in relation to the people, the living people who are in these institutions. I am thinking above all of higher education and all that has been done with a previous legislative framework, which has created and solved problems, as have important lawyers who do not belong to SYRIZA. The whole effort we've been doing all this time has had two axes. The first axis was that there should be support for institutions which, because of a crisis and because of a recent legislative framework, present major problems. The fact that we have been able to have PLN members for the under-represented institutions, to be able to support, the fact that we have emphasised that scholarships are being given, and many, several grants - I will not eat you the time now - to stop the departure of the important young people abroad, that we have created an institutional framework for the relocations, so that people can study, and we are now providing grants for the financially weak, that is to say, to support those who always live up to the institutional framework. Secondly, you have told us many times that we are making fragmentary legislation, without a continuity and so on. I will also tell you from my experience in the Ministry of Education that what we have encountered was that the previous law, mainly n.4009/2011, but then, it had no regulatory value, did not put in a regulatory framework. It was an idea that referred to earlier laws or to institutions and others that did not exist anyway, that is, they had to be made from the beginning. You will allow me, Mr President, two more words. I won't be interfering anyway. You keep talking about excellence that we are the ones against excellence. What does that mean? Is excellence predetermined? Does anyone advance in some way how excellence is defined? Excellence doesn't result? One doesn't make the prerequisites for students to be absolved or students or students. Let me read to you something that I caught on the Internet for a newly-built school that says: "By a mission to offer excellence to higher education in the fields of law and governance. To offer excellence to education through theory, development of practical and multidisciplinary skills." Or do you mean this excellence, which only provides the preliminary announcements of some people - because it is also an alibi to public education - but also to the only certainty that excellence is bought, because all it says here is a market of excellence. We buy it like that. The left-wing government opposes something different: to allow institutions and public institutions to offer opportunities to those who want to be afflicted, indeed to be afflicted. It's not buying excellence. Excellence is done through a hard effort. I want, Mr President, two minutes to speak on Rule 27, because I have heard some objections. I'll get three things straight. Firstly, this Article 27 is not an attempt by the government or the Ministry of Education to impose something that was not there. There is a problem with the institutions themselves, which the prosecutors have told the public that they will be charged, that is to say, to a breach of duty, Mr Fortsakis knows. What are we coming to do? In fact, this article is interpretative. Are the people, university professors, who participated in this reward fee? Do they have to pay to the PPE and this reward fee? The Council of State has helped us very much in this direction, because what it says is that, firstly, this is not tax, but it is a reward. That is to say, he goes back to the teachers themselves and to the structures of the university, that is, to the PPE. It gives them the right to pursue a profession free of charge in return for that fee. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the Madam Minister.]] Second, the legislator didn't exclude...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u48	We've got to get this over with, Mrs. Anagnastopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u49	I won't intervene another time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u50	You've already intervened by more than three and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u51	The legislator did not expressly exclude all the teachers who participated in a company and therefore, since the law does not distinguish, the interpreter of the law cannot allow discrimination to be made. Thirdly, participation in a company is included in the free profession of the professor, who is full-time. Otherwise it would be incompatible. If it were not allowed by law as full-time to engage in this profession, it would be incompatible. As for the last criticism, if it has retroactive effect, let us make something clear. Retrospective power has something, when it is charged, and we say that once it is charged, it has retroactive power. This is where nothing has been blamed. What's the problem? And the D.A. tells them, so I can say it completely. It is that this money has to be charged as a public revenue, as a rewarding end and from that point on, we see. But they must be charged. The limitation shall be made after they have been charged. These haven't even been accounted for. Please think about it, because from now on there there will be a huge problem of inequality, which will break the principle of constitutional equality. Some pay full-time - and others don't pay. Thank you and apologise for overcoming time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u52	Thank you. Unfortunately, the procedure that I have told you cannot be carried out. I have been informed by the President of Parliament that there is a government committee and the ministers must leave. So, after giving the floor for two to three minutes to Minister Fotakis, who wants to talk about one amendment, to Mr Papaxemoumum three minutes - I make a concession because of Kessarians, because you typically have no reason to speak, you do not sign the amendment - and to Mr Gülekas, to make his two - three questions and we will begin the procedure for waiving immunities. Minister, you have the floor. What amendment do you want to talk about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall refer to the amendment with a general number of 640 and a special number of 61. Recently, an agreement was signed between the Greek State and the European Investment Bank to create a total fund of EUR 240 million and to support new scientists and research carried out at universities, TEIs and research centres in the country. The creation of this fund is one of the answers we give to the impact of the economic crisis on research in the country and an approach to addressing the key issue of the departure of scientists abroad, which has often been affected during this meeting. I would like to stress that these funds are additional to those from the ESRB and Horizon 2020 and indeed - let me say - we are waiting for the next two and a half to three years to take off the research scientific ecosystem in the country, based on the mood that will take place. Now the fund's resources will be managed by a new institution, the Hellenic Institute for Research and Innovation, on which it is imminently tabling a law to vote. Because in crisis conditions, which the country is experiencing, it is absolutely essential to take immediate measures, to take urgent measures, it was agreed with the European Investment Bank that the first instalment of 18,000, which is 10% of the Bank's participation, should be raised until the establishment of the Hellenic Institute for Research and Innovation, the ELIDEC. This amount will be allocated directly to support young scientists at pre- and post-doctoral level. That is precisely what the amendment, which has been tabled, namely the way in which these funds are managed, is to make this advance, which is to be made by the Secretariat-General for Research and Technology. If there are any comments, I would be happy to answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Pappas has the floor for three minutes. Mr. Poppa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u55	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the derogation and this House for understanding. I have asked for the floor for a very short time, because I think it is for the government majority, but I also believe it is a great honour for every democratic MP to vote on this day and for the amendment, which gives the historic site of the Kessariani Symbol in the municipality of Cessarian. It is a sanctuary, a place of sacrifice, and I think that all democratic MPs must respond to this historic debt. It is the rightful long-standing request of the people of Kessariani, the Municipality of Kessariani, but also of all democratic citizens. It was a place of altar, culminating in the execution of the two hundred patriotic communists. These patriots were not arrested by the conqueror who executed them. They surrendered to the conqueror. They were arrested by the dictatorship of Metaxas. I say that, to think twice in here, if some claim anything from their inheritance. As far as the concession of this total area was concerned, although it was a place of altar, despite the fact that the city of Cesarean was plunged, despite the fact that schools and nurseries were built in this area, legal retaliations did not stop. It was granted in 1930 to a shooter and the concession was withdrawn in 1987. The lasting judicial dispute, this intercystinda, was a reminder to all the people of Cesarean, to the democratic world of the country, that this looseness with the past has not found justice. We had painful times, where mayors, vice mayors, fighters of the National Resistance, public bodies, had a criminal approach to this issue. So today's amendment is a necessary move, which comes in line with the commitment of the Prime Minister of Greece, Alexis Tsipras, a commitment he made on the first day of his oath when he submitted a wreath to this altar of freedom. I would like, because I, too, have grown up, been born in this town, to call on every democratic MEP, this amendment to support it in order to show together that not only the historical memory, but that the Greek society, our country, is founded on the anti-fascist and democratic struggles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u56	Because you made a historical retrograde, it would be nice to have reminded you that the renovation of the site took place under Minister Prokopi Pavlopoulos and Prime Minister Kostas Karamanlis. I'm saying that because you've made a historical recurring. I remember that as an old man, and I fill it out because you forgot about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u57	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u58	Mr. Theocharopoulos, what do you want to talk about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u59	Mr President, I am speaking on the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor for a minute and we close.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u61	Minister, first of all, we are to be positive about this provision. I'm starting with this. Of course, it is very positive that it is going on right now. Of course, the withdrawal of concessions from the public sector and the emergence of the area as a historical and cultural monument is provided for by the decision of the then Minister of Culture, Melina Mercouri, which you have not mentioned, and I would also like to add that to that position that you have made, as well as the decision of the Minister of Culture, Culture, Melina Mercouri, who approved the Caesar Plan. It is also a constant demand for the inhabitants of Cesarean. That's the reality. These provisions, then, are considered positive and, of course, provided that they are respected - and I would like to say this - the strict conditions for management and exploitation, that the marketing of the licensed area will be excluded and that there will be a place of historical memory, culture and the general benefit of the citizens. These are some conditions which we should constantly see if they are complied with. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u62	Mr President, may I have the floor, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u63	Mr Delis, your colleague spoke of the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u64	For the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u65	For the amendment, of course. Your special speaker spoke. Still, I don't want to blame you. You have a minute and you, just a minute. But the JRC has already been placed with your colleague. Here, Mr. Delis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u66	With regard to the amendment by the Government to grant the Sniper Area to the Municipality of Cesarean for forty years, which we are also voting in favour, I would like to say: In our opinion it is a necessary development and it is the fruit of many-year-old struggles of the people of Cesare, the people of Athens, who, with the fronts of communists, other progressive people, the communist mayors, have already imposed the use of this space in favour of popular needs and, furthermore, its exploitation as a place of honor and memory, a truly sacred symbol of patriotism and a monument of eternal condemnation of fascism. But we would like to remind the Government that these spaces and the signals they emigrate are not only commemorated by a simple deposit of crowns. It is honoured every day with the struggles, with politics and government policy, which, based on the participation of the government and its compliance with NATO and the European Union, is in direct contrast - not to mention the sale of public property - in relation to the real content of these struggles.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u67	Don't open up that kind of thing now. You will refer to the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u68	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u69	Mr. Gülekas has the floor for two minutes. Mr Baltas is here. Please ask him clarifications as soon as possible, Mr Güleka. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u70	Minister, we would expect after eighteen, nineteen months of SYRIZA ruling to present the Ministry of Culture a comprehensive bill, which is also the SYRIZA national proposal for culture, which I think is a privileged field for everyone. There we can meet all the forces. Culture must unite us and not separate us. On the contrary, what do we see? What we have seen from your own government - and I speak of your predecessor, but also about the days of your own - are fragmentations, caratosis of directors and directors, the international turmoil of our country with the development of the Fabre case and, in general, an absolute mess in the field of culture and a lack of overall political and vision. This is shown today by the two amendments you bring. So instead of bringing a bill, as I have told you, which really gives a new breath to culture, do you bring in fragmentary, forward-looking two amendments irrelevant to the current draft law, of the Ministry of Education, which are coming to regulate what? Because in some of our state scenes - there is no such precedent! - it happens that the members of the board of directors do not speak with the artistic director - photographing this case - you come to define a new pole of power in there, that is, essentially a man who will bridge the differences between the artistic director of the National Theatre and the members of the board. This is also apparent from the fact that you yourself in the amendment propose that, if the board of directors and the artistic director do not find it among themselves, the Minister should decide. In other words, while there was the institution of the Deputy Director of Administrative, Economic Affairs, you are now coming - essentially by upgrading - and setting up a new position, which will be the position of mediator, so that the two sides that are not speaking to each other can...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u71	Mr. Giuleka, please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u72	I'll be right over.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u73	Yeah, but that wasn't questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u74	Yes, but, Mr President, we have to say this a little, because it is important. So we believe, Minister, that this case simply comes to regulate the internal choices made by your government. Of course, we stand negatively on this amendment and vote against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u75	Mr. Güleka, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u76	I shall conclude, Mr President. As far as the second amendment is concerned, I would like to say that you yourself...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Giuleka, excuse me. You need to get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u78	These are two amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u79	You do not have the floor for the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Baltas is here...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u81	For clarifications, you have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u82	We ask for clarifications. That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u83	Close with the positioning, what you are doing in the second amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u84	As far as the second amendment is concerned. You admit indirectly but clearly with the explanatory statement you have in your amendment, that the Ministry has shown a total inertia. Nineteen months later, you say, "You know, the theatres, which did not comply with the law that came in 2014, because they did not understand exactly what is going to happen, will comply from now on." I ask you, Minister: if any accident occurs - because it concerns fire, fire protection, etc. - in such areas of mass meeting, who will be responsible? Will you go out and say what? Will you go out and say, 'We have given a deadline, it has not been observed by some and we are now coming to give another deadline'?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u85	Mr. Giuleka, please. You're putting me in a very difficult position.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u86	I'm waiting for the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u87	The Minister's answer will be as long as it is to be.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u88	For private schools...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u89	Mr. Philly, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u90	For private schools if I had the time...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u91	Please, Mr. Güleka, close your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u92	You lead to a working middle age...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u93	Mr. Güleka, please close your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u94	...remove the labour courts and actually...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u95	Mr. Giuleka, you don't have the floor anymore.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u96	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u97	Mr. Giuleka, can you hear me or think I'm absent from the Chair? You're addressing me. You're not addressing Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u98	But the Minister of Education is addressing me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u99	I'm Mr. Friend's. I'm gonna cut off his word. Please close your location.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u100	But I'm closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u101	Hey, sit down if you've closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u102	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u103	Mrs. Antoniou, what are you asking for?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u104	For the amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u105	When the time comes for your position, you are talking about the amendments too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u106	Because the Minister is here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u107	No, I don't care about that. I won't change the Rules of Procedure. We're done. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point we will suspend the debate on the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION REQUESTS FOR APPROVAL OF BULGARIA Debates and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament, Nicholas Michou and Ioannis Lagos - a bibliography - and Mr Panagiotis Kammenos. The Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced the report on 28 July 2016, according to which the members of the Committee proposed, by a majority, that the waiver of Mr. Nicholas Michou and Ioannis Ragos, a case-file. The report was announced by the relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics - on the same date - that the members of the committee proposed by a majority that Mr Panagiotis Kammenos should not withdraw his immunity. Under Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, the House does not enter the substance of the cases but is only investigated if the act in respect of which the waiver of immunity is sought is linked to the Members' political or parliamentary activity or to the prosecution or prosecution or prosecution of a case of political expedition. In accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, the Parliament shall decide by raising the hand or by revocation on the request of the Prosecutor in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108(1)(2). The floor shall always be given - if requested - to the Member to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates. I would remind you that, in accordance with a decision of the Conference of Presidents of 23 March 2005, we have accepted in respect of applications for waiver of immunity the House has decided by roll-call vote and by roll-call vote. In the vote in which each colleague will list his name, his constituency and the parliamentary group, he will be registered in the respective Minutes. So we are responding to the provisions of Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, which requires a clear vote. After the debate on the case of today's special agenda is concluded, we shall proceed to a roll-call vote, as I have described. The first case concerns colleagues and colleagues. Nikolao Micho and Ioannis Rabbit. The second case concerns Mr Panagiotis Kammenos. Is there any colleague requesting the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure? Ladies and gentlemen, they have been informed and are not in the Chamber. Obviously they do not want to take the floor. So we're moving on. The second request, is there any colleague requesting the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure? Mr Kammens has sent a memorandum - it will not take the floor - which I am tabling on the Minutes and which anyone who wishes to read.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, there will be a roll-call vote on this item. A list has been drawn up with the names of colleagues for requesting the waiver of immunity. Every colleague will vote next to the Members' names on whom the waiver of immunity is sought. Any colleague who votes in favour of the waiver of immunity will write next to the Member whose name is called upon to waive the word 'NAI'. Any colleague who votes against the waiver of immunity will write next to the Member whose name is called for the waiver of immunity. Any colleague who refuses to vote shall write next to the Member whose name is called for the immunity to be lifted. The vote will give each of its colleagues its name, its constituency and the parliamentary group to which it belongs. Subsequently, with their name on the list of colleagues, Mr Ioannis Sarakiotis will deliver the vote to colleagues from SYRIZA and Mr Vassiliou Yoyakas from New Democracy, who will sign up and announce that the MP has voted. Please take their seats. After the end of the vote there will be a counting of the votes by the Members I have mentioned, as will be the result of the ballots which will be recorded together with the voting protocol in the Minutes of today's sitting. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u110	The House unanimously agreed. MEP Mr Anastasia Gara from SYRIZA and Mr Ioannis Kefaliannis Kefaliannis from New Democracy are on the list. Because Mr. Kefalayannis - not with his own fault - is not here yet, until he arrives, Mr. Emmanuel Konsolas will take his place for order purposes alone. I'm stressing it. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u111	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to congratulate Mr Medina Ortega on his excellent report. Alexios Tsipras, Nikolaos Paraskeviopoulos, Panagiotis Kourublis, Theodoros Dritsas, Alexandros Triantafylides and Euphoria Karasarlidos will not be present in today's roll-call vote and we are told by letter of their intention to vote. These letters express the intention of voting, do not count on the counting of votes and will be recorded in the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and to get the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u113	Until the result is exported, I propose that we continue the meeting on the draft law debate. Mr Amanatidis, you have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the revision of the existing Law 4027/2011, which regulates Greek-language education abroad, has been considered necessary because of the most problems that have arisen in its implementation. This is an attempt in the current draft law we are discussing here in Parliament, and the main reason is that the current framework of Greek language education abroad has not yielded the expected efforts, despite the valuable efforts of the seconded teachers and the essential and practical effort in most cases of interest to the Greek community. Our aims and objectives are to maintain the special linguistic and cultural identity of the Greek Prime Minister and to facilitate his adaptation to another cultural environment, by exploiting the existing educational structures of the host country, as well as the recognition of all forms of Greek language education abroad and their corresponding strengthening. The form of the school, bilingual or incomplete section of the Greek Language and Culture, whether or not, takes into account the specificities of the country in which it operates, the current legislative framework, the composition of the school population, in order to implement a differentiated policy on a case-by-case basis. This is why the model of bilingual education, which is gaining ground because of the possibilities that students can continue their studies in both Greek and foreign higher education, will gradually be implemented, following the signing of a relevant transnational agreement that will ensure the interests of the Greek community. The recording of existing operators, which, unfortunately, has been foreseen in the past, has not yet been completed, resulting in no overall imprint of their characteristics. The picture that will emerge from the recording will allow for the proper supervision of actors, as well as the development of targeted educational policy over time. An early annual design of the secondments of teachers is needed on the basis of real service needs. To this end, the coordinator of education is responsible for collecting the data required - number of departments, number of pupils, places of teachers, timetable schedule, etc. - which submits electronically to the head of the Ministry of Education. A Standing Committee is set up between the relevant Ministries of Education, Culture and Foreign Affairs and representatives of educational institutions, such as the Institute for Education and the Centre for Greek Language. Its task is to plan joint actions on Greek education and culture abroad and to ensure uninterrupted and coordinated cooperation between the relevant bodies. In addition, a Standing Committee shall be set up to monitor and promote the work of higher education bodies abroad, as well as to evaluate the work of teachers seconded to them. This move is part of a wider effort to bring foreigners, other than the Greek community, who love Greece and wish to share Greek education. Care is taken for the pedagogical guidance and training of teachers in order to support them substantially in their work by the relevant institutions in Greece. The use of new forms of technology enables Greek-language education to be linked to lifelong learning without the burden of the state budget. It introduces flexibility in the way in which Greek-language education is strengthened, taking into account the specificities and needs involved. In this light, parts of Greek Language and Culture with a small number of pupils will be able to be strengthened by the Greek state with the provision of educational material, electronics or printed material, in order to maintain the link of the democrat, wherever and above all, the knowledge and experience of the community and the strengthening of its role are exploited, with the opportunity given to its members who have the necessary qualifications to be recruited as teaching staff. In this way, efficient cooperation between posted teachers is ensured. Ladies and gentlemen, we will take serious account of the proposals made by the World Parliamentary Union of Hellenism, the PDP, secondly. In this bill, part of its proposals is embedded. The next period will be the International Day of Greek Language - Greek-speaking. Ladies and gentlemen, our position as a government for education has two distinct objectives. Public, free, democratic education for all on the one hand and qualitatively upgraded, high-level on the other. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I would ask for your tolerance. I'm done. Education is a universal right and a universal good. The state's obligation is to provide free quality education, equal to everyone, with a view to the full development of personality and active participation in society, according to the gradients and abilities of each and every one. The removal of barriers and the removal of all kinds of discrimination are directly linked to the free provision of public education. Ladies and gentlemen, with this draft law, in line with Article 16(8) of our Constitution, which states that a special law defines the supervision of private education, as well as the official status of private teachers, we implement our commitment that for us it is incomprehensible to subject private teachers to the Ministry of Labour and to ensure that private teachers are employed in order to be able to carry out their training duties in the interests of pupils and education, as I mentioned in my position at an earlier timely question to the then Deputy Minister of Education, Mr Kedicoglu, and that it comes from a number of prefectures, such as the decisions of the Administrative Court of Appeal, 1870/2006, such as the decision of the Pagos Board of Appeal, 864/1976, the decision of the Council of State and, finally, Decision 622/2010 of the Council of State, which states that the constitutional supervision of the private teachers is based on the constitutionality of the State. In the same judgment, it should be pointed out that those provisions of the EC Treaty are to be interpreted as meaning that the Court of First Instance has no jurisdiction to rule on the interpretation of Community law. 682 ensure that private educational establishments are able to perform their duties more effectively in the performance of the purpose of education, which has been irrevocably confined to a public interest. Quality in education goes through attention and care for the teacher. This is a position expressed by the World Federation of Educational Education. Ladies and gentlemen, the neoliberal dilemmas "quality in education for a few or mass low-level education", "excellence or democracy" are pretexts and want to cover the lack of interest in the enjoyment of the good of education by all and all. They hide the targeted policy of conservative political forces, which treat education and education as a commodity and not as a social right. They show a tree so that it does not appear that behind the forest, that there has been a sub-financing of education, which would have been more intense if they applied in the medium term they had voted, that they were attempting to manipulate teachers by means of the punishing assessment that led to a tank of teachers and civil servants to be fired, as Mr Mitsotakis did with the two thousand - more than - of them - the redundancies of teachers with postgraduate and doctoral qualifications or the dismantling of technical vocational education. At the same time, they can speak unregulatedly about excellence...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u115	Minister, please put a perfect one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u116	I put it to the final vote, Mr President, by closing two important conclusions. The value of knowledge has always been very high on the Left and in the defence of this right, dedicated to thousands of left-wing intellectuals and teachers. So, in paraphrasing the word of the Frenchman, I would say: 'Down with all lies. We are in agreement.' School wants you to do so and we are struggling for our school to contribute to a fairer and more human society, less hypocritical, less inhuman. In the face of the times we are living, we must protect our educational system and implement a new educational policy that invests in education for exit from the crisis, for a society that is made up of the ideals of humanism, against the post-immigrant perceptions that wanted reforms with the sole aim of working knowledge to serve the needs of the labour market in the context of the neoliberal concept of education. As Kazantzakis said, it is the ideal teacher who becomes a bridge to cross over and when the passage makes it easier for him to pass, he is glad to be dismantled, encouraging his disciple to build his own bridges. On this road we'll walk. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u117	Given the large number of colleagues on the list of speakers, I propose that we set the speaking time at six minutes. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u118	No, Mr President, this House is not in agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u119	Why are you protesting? We say this so that Members on the list do not get wrong. That's what we're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u120	This is the case every time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u121	What do you want us to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u122	Let the sitting be extended, Mr President. It must be possible for colleagues to speak. We can't keep talking. Then what do we do in the House if we don't talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u123	Have we removed from anyone's word? If you don't agree, okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u124	We don't agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u125	So, how much time do you need, Mr. Fortsaki?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u126	What the Rules of Procedure stipulate, Mr President, that is seven minutes. Just keep him. That's what we agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u127	Mr. Megamystakas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are also being called today to discuss this bill, to say whether we will vote for it or to vote against it. This bill concerns Greek-language and intercultural education, a very important issue, in its first part and other provisions, as stated. In the first part, we see that real and chronic problems are solved. It is a happy fact that they have finally come to Parliament and will finally settle these issues. The last part of the bill can be called a broom bill. I don't want to be ironic with that characterisation. I simply mention it as a ‘bowl’, knowing that the previous governments have had many shortcomings in their planning and are issues that you need to solve. However, what concerns me with other provisions is the fact that there has been no cooperation between the parties, unfortunately, in order to provide commonly accepted solutions from everyone, not even with the bodies. I'll explain why this happened. Education should be a very important area, if not the most important sector and every government have a serious planning and every party still does not see that happening. As far as Part One is concerned, I would like to say, as I have said before, that we must certainly all agree with the arrangements that are being made. But in addition to the procedures relating to transfers and secondments, we must ensure that the qualifications are equal to those of the Greeks and that the education provided to the children of Greek immigrants is essential and qualitative. What actually connects the Greeks who left with their homeland is school abroad. We also want to draw attention to the fact that this is not the case. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, accusing SYRIZA, said that Munich's school was in fact closed down, as we did not use the land that the German public gave us. But that's why it's not just SYRIZA, it's the other people's fault. It's not a problem he showed up right now. It should have been settled and we hope that this will not continue and that we do not have such incidents. It is very important that we ensure everything for all these young people who have left. Beyond being a Member today, I would also like to speak as a representative of a generation of people. Approximately two hundred and fifty thousand young people with university quality studies left abroad because they cannot support their families or create a family here in Greece, nor can they even support themselves. So we have to take care of them. Young people who have left are young people who have worked hard. Their families were pressed. They've been undergoing an economic excitement. I may be excessive with that expression, but when we have to invest in the education of our children in the private sector and pay care, then this is what happens. So we see that the so far governments have not respected child labour. Let us provide for their foreign course. It's bad to say that, but this has to happen. On the subject of private education, with private schools, a climate of hostility has been created, which I do not understand why it exists. If there was a conversation with all the agencies from the Ministry, I think we'd find a solution. Under no circumstances do we want the employment rights of teachers to be lost in the private sector, but we also need to ensure the sustainability of businesses. I'm saying business, although it's a special class, private education institutions. But in order for them to have a job, we must ensure first of all their sustainability. It is because we are not going to vote in favour of this article. The amendment you tabled on special treatment once again demonstrates your lack of planning. Today I was sent another letter from the SATE, which states that it is not in the general sense of the amendment. I'll file the letter they sent me. If you had discussed them with them, you'd find a solution. It is not against outlawing injustice at last. It is legal and fair to permanent teachers serving in special education structures. However, there was no dialogue with all the actors involved. [[At this point, MP Anastasios Megalamoustakas submits for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] There are problems in our education, such as outdated books, the withdrawal of the available actions that everyone so much backed up. Geography does not teach it geography in schools and the Geography department at the university has fallen five to six thousand molecules. The 2013 organics that were transferred to primary education only apply to those who are a common qualification and not to those who are not a common qualification. There are also differences between similar sections of the university. I tabled an amendment to that effect, as we see that the University of Special Education in Thessaly has the right and certified educational and teaching competence. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a second. I've had enough time anyway. The relevant department from the University of Thessaloniki does not have the same capacity. This needs to be restored immediately. Another article that I would like to discuss is Article 36 on the education of refugees. Of course the Central Association wants refugees and refugees to accept education from the Greek state. However, you are the last person to bring this into a small ten-series text, without having been in the course of dialogue and with all the decisions to be taken by the Minister. With this decision, and with your proposal, I am very afraid that phenomena will be repeated in my constituency with the refugee structure in which SYRIZA coordinator and director of the structure were fed and the daughter of SYRIZA coordinator. That's not the left's moral advantage. I'm afraid so. The curiosity and lack of design is evident, not only in this bill, but also in all your design the politician. We can also give an example, which is also timely, about the vouchers of the kindergartens where many families have stayed out. There were no places, no opportunity was given for parents looking for work or working with very low wages to leave their children at a kindergarten. These are policies that are inappropriate to a serious government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u129	Please, Mr Megloumustakas, as a representative of the new generation, set the good example to the older.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u130	I'll be done in a little while. I'm so sorry, I just got interrupted at first, and I lost about forty seconds a minute. I don't want to abuse time and I want to respect what's going on in here. I mean, education is the beginning of all. We should all work together and offer the Greek people a stable educational system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of a roll-call vote on the request for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament. A total of 197 Members voted. For my fellow Members Nikolao Micho and Ioannis Rabbit: In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAI', they voted 197 Members. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore admissible. For Mr Panagiotis Kammenos: In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 19 Members voted. On the issue of immunity, 171 Members voted against. They voted for 7 MPs. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u133	We are returning to the debate of the bill. Mr Ausgeakis, you have the floor for seven minutes, as agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u134	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely wonder about this capacity of the government. How do you even manage the question of education, which could - and should - be unanimous among most people, if not all of the groups, turn into a question of political controversy. It's a wonder. A law, the Diamantopoulou law, which - I remind you - has been passed by more than 3⁄4 of the House's votes and you are effectively abolishing it. Unfortunately, it is not just a matter of education for the country. The same is true of what you call a free-information auction. Unfortunately, gentlemen, only unregulated manipulative and information-control regimes decide and order exactly how many television stations will be in a country, while technology does not make any such restrictions. Such a gray regime is trying to build SYRIZA with two goals. The European Parliament's Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and the Media has been set up. The current television scene is, in fact, problematic in many respects, but it is not cured by the 'Gebel' methods of the government, it only changes with absolute respect for the constitution, the free information and the free market. The New Democracy is only interested in protecting democracy and the unmanageable information of Greek citizens. On the occasion of the in progress of a parody, we reiterate our clear position. Firstly, in any case, the New Democracy government will abolish the Pappa law, perfection and dash. We will immediately restore the role of the PSE, as the Constitution imposes. There will be no delay in the process of licensing channels on the free market, because restricting licences to four is a deep anti-democratic arbitrage. One more thing, the whole auction process is undisturbed, it's on the air, because the St. E. has not yet decided on the constitutionality of the Pappa law. The new Republic, we, insist on the absolute transparency of the origin of money, the strict quality criteria and a single licence section. Apart from that, the day before yesterday was very revealing for something else. The arsenals, ladies and gentlemen, of violence and lawlessness in recent months have come to a new derailment with the murderous attempt against the Governor of Athens, which the well-known - unknown, but known in Koumoundouros, have been hit with criminal cruelty and vigour. It is clear for some time now that the government cannot protect either the security of citizens and the security of the police themselves. Citizens are anxiously and often afraid to see a government unable to guarantee order. Police officers who are at risk every day on the altar of duty must have the support and respect of all of us, but they receive the opposite of the government. They feel the indifference of the government to themselves, to their mission, without the moral and operational support they need. After all, SYRIZA has been dealing with the police with suspicion, if not with unambiguous hostility. As far as the bill is concerned, it's disgusting, it's also misleading. It does not fundamentally seriously address the issues of Greek-language and intercultural education, but introduces a number of unrelated provisions. You're doing this against coron, gentlemen of the government. You are bringing in a bill, and along with it a whole lot of pointless provisions and amendments, and indeed at the last minute. This now goes beyond the violation of the rules of good law, and it would be useful to hear the opinion of the Bureau and, of course, of the President, Mr Voutsi. It is, now, an institutional diversion and an affront to the core of Parliament's functioning and, of course, to the separation of powers. It offends parliamentary democracy. I'm going to stand as far as time allows me in the basic arrangements of the bill. With regard to Greek-language education abroad, you are reintroducing the application of bilingual schools. Under strict conditions, this can help to prevent the deterioration of Greek schools abroad and the marginalisation of the children of the family. But this must be done very carefully and, above all, very well documented. Has the necessary transnational agreements been made? Is there any programming and, in particular, a timetable? Has it been taken care of, for countries that are currently experiencing a great migration of Greeks, such as Germany? It also introduces a series of arrangements which will create more problems than it is trying to solve, such as the deterioration of the formal qualifications of their school coordinators and managers. It is another remarkable attempt on the moral advantage of the Left to serve "the left". Secondly, intercultural education in Greece is an extremely important issue, which also takes on enormous proportions because of the government's catastrophic policy on immigration and refugee issues. So instead, ladies and gentlemen of the government, open up a serious public debate on this issue and see the problems created by the new data, hide the problem under the carpet and all you do is rename it into 'experimental' without any change. I wonder: Is that clear for communication reasons or to create confusion with the actual experimental schools that you wanted to abolish and convert into pilot-in-project schools? We're going to private education provisions. Private education regulations aim to change the occupational status of teachers and teachers in private schools. After two years, contracts from a certain period of time shall be automatically converted into an indefinite. Undetermined contracts are only reported for very specific cases. Dismissals must be approved by the relevant Staff Board. Interventions are being established in the additional educational activities of private schools. This is a Stalinist-type intervention in the operation of private enterprises. Of course, however, education is a public asset. Under the Constitution, it is a public asset and the state must ensure that free education is provided. The State also sets the framework for the operation of the training programme of private schools. This does not mean, however, that the State intervenes in the labour relations and the way private schools operate. This is - and I say it again - a Stalinist version. The same logic applies to the government for any State intervention in private enterprises that provide public goods such as health, information and, of course, this cannot be done and we are of course voting against it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like a moment, please, Mr President. I'll say one more thing before I get off the Step. Mr. Friend's away. I will simply comment on the wording of his intention to write - as he said - the capital of the civil war in schools. The civil, ladies and gentlemen, is a complex and diverse event that has divided the Greek people and injured them for too many years. His writing in school books requires cooling and documentation rather than reproducing dissent that caused great damage in our country. The writing of this chapter must contribute to collective self-awareness and above all to maturity. I doubt, however, whether this is the objective of the government, Mr Phile, which you are absent from the Chamber. You know very well that it is not the Minister of Education's job to write books about students and, of course, it cannot deal with such important issues of education. Of course, Mr Friends may not have graduated yet, but it is his institutional obligation to allow young children to receive the education they are entitled to. Now that I have said about Mr Philly's graduation, I would also like to comment on the amendment you have put forward, which actually opens the doors to the hundreds of thousands of eternal students. Really, is it Mr. Friend himself? Did he make a mind or set a target, even on his government, to graduate from the Greek universities? Don't ruin education, Minister. It is the foundation of any democratic and progressive society.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u135	You're welcome, Mr. Ausgeakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u136	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u137	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u138	Because the Minister is missing,
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u139	Mr President, for a minute. I would ask that Mr Augias be revoked. It's a serious political issue. In this Parliament he blames the government and SYRIZA for knowing the Koumoundourou know those who attacked the Trojan Leader. It's unacceptable! To withdraw immediately. Otherwise, it's not just slandering, it's political atrocity in here!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u140	Do you have anything to add, Mr. Ausgeakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u141	I have nothing to say to my colleague. I just respect his explosion as an explosion of a man who thinks cleanly. At this point, however, I will say nothing but invoke the hundreds of statements made by your fellow Members who have from time to time mocked up their respective attacks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u142	Mr President, to withdraw or delete from the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u143	Clearly and I do not withdraw.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u144	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u145	It's unacceptable, it's political atrocity!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u146	Keep your nerves.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u147	Mr. Ausgeus, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u148	I would expect SYRIZA, firstly, to condemn these attacks and, secondly, to tell us the truth if each Minister for Public Order is entitled to speak with para-state groups in the field of Exarchites.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u149	Mr. Aggenakis, do you insist on the wording that SYRIZA knows who beat him?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u150	Delete from the Minutes immediately!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u151	It's none of your business.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u152	So you're in agreement?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u153	Mr President, it's not their business.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u154	Do you agree to delete the wording?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u155	Of course not. Clearly, and I do not agree to be deleted and I ask the Minister of Public Order and every member of the SYRIZA to condemn this act publicly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u156	Mr President, this is political atrocity in here!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u157	I would like to return the designation to my colleague, and I very much ask him not to delete anything at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u158	Each shall assume responsibility for his or her own words.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u159	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u160	Mr Constantine Kontogeorgios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u161	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we would expect, in discussing a draft law on education, that, in difficult times, the consensus of the whole political world is required. On the contrary, we saw yesterday from the first position of the Minister of Education, Mr. Friend, that the division was attempted in this Chamber, accusing all political forces, which might not be in agreement with him on individual issues. We have had the opportunity to hear policy lessons, such as radical liberalism, or how one should be placed politically in here, which is in agreement with Mr Philly. You are unfortunate about these interventions by the Minister. I have the opinion that no consensus is being attempted, that it does not want consensus. He's trying to split up, because that's how it suits the government today. I'm getting clearer. It is a good thing for the government today that this division within this House is political for two main reasons. Because it serves its political audience and, of course, it deceives and harmoniously suits specific categories of people. That is why, in our view. It's a logical explanation that doesn't exist. If, in fact, it did concern all of us that the issues of education should have a long-term strategy and the necessary political consensus, they should be governed by other criteria and not by those which force every political person in this Chamber to disagree with the political leadership of the Ministry and the Minister for Education, Mr. Friend, who, of course, and this time, had the right to question this, did not allow the debate to evolve with the suggestions, as the normal course of a draft law provides, and took the first floor, as he did in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, to blow up the political climate and create this controversy which, in my opinion, really suits the government. In addition, Mr Philosophy yesterday, with great pride, referred to the start of the new school year, saying that all the problems in education have now been solved and we are going to a school year without problems. He did not say anything, however, about Hoxha's prior practice to reduce the needs of our educational system to human resources, since we have reduced the hours of teaching, reduced the number of pupils in every room and come here and say that we have'solved the problems and will incorporate the required number', which, of course, has nothing to do with the real needs of education in an educational system, in a public school that should have solved its serious problems in order to move forward. This tactic, of course, is Hodja's tactic, and it is just for impression and it has nothing to do with reality and it prevails in the various schools in the country, especially in the region, and we will see in the next ten days what the real problems will be. As also mentioned, numbers were also reported. For example, they were sent - he says - fourteen million books to all the schools in the country. Oh, no? Why were fewer years gone? Did they go more? So the number of books is the thing? Then he told us how many tons of books we shared in the schools in the country. Of course, what gives us the impression that there is nothing to do with the reality and from which he seems to feel guilty about the whole educational community, is who told us about a direct union in education. Who? Is SYRIZA talking about a head office in education? You forgot the most famous trade unionist, President of OLEME, Mr Kotsifakis, who had come out since June last year and announced the closure of schools, the occupations of schools, the numbers missing from education, the means that are not enough. Every year! You forgot how Oleme itself devastated him in March 2015, when it's all done well, as soon as you've come to the government in that country. With the infamous Mr. Kotsifakis on the direction of union in the education you refer to and you have the courage to address the New Democracy by moving the finger. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, there is no objection at all to the fact that the public school needs to be upgraded. With what tactics and what logic, though? We come from the county, only public schools. In a difficult situation, however, the public schools were actually working and not in a figurative way. I come to the draft law, because time is not enough. Especially in this part concerning Greek-language education, which is the nation's shield on the world stage, you come here and start discussing various arrangements. For example, Article 13: ‘Selection and placement of training coordinators in countries’. Instead of having the frosting, the best we have, so that we can set harder and clearer criteria so that we can have this excellent image abroad, we are trying to reduce the selection criteria for coordinators, why? To cover our own political audience. Another very serious issue is Article 28: 'Rules on private education'. What's wrong with you? What has the word "private" before you get allergy. You incriminate everything. No one disagrees with the clear rules and the framework for what private education operates. But under no circumstances can anything go ahead. We see a second pillar of education, which will promote the interests and objectives of the public school in a noble starch. Finally, because time is not enough, I come to the amendment on special treatment. I consider it an excellent deception of the teachers who have worked and guaranteed professional rights, which you come here saying, you say, and in the end you say nothing at all. Remove the organic posts IP61 and IP71 of kindergartens and teachers and put them all in the same basket. Is that what the educational community wants? The previous law also said that when teachers of special education specialities are not sufficient, they certainly need to be completed. But here you're abolishing everything. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, once again the government is legislating manually, it only legislates with the audience. What have we heard - and I am closing with this - from a minister I would have thought of until a moment ago as a condescending man attempting consensus, the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs? What did he say here? He told us that only left teachers have offered educational work in this society. We're going to go crazy in this Chamber. You are trying to split up, you need to correct a course in particular in the field of the process. You must stop splitting society and the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u162	Thank you. Any colleague who first applies year-on-year will be well-informed. Mrs Karamanlis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the main part of the bill under discussion relates to Greek-language education. It is a sensitive issue that touches the whole of the Greek community and even at a time when the migration flows of the Greeks have been intensified. The Government, without a concrete and structured plan, promotes the implementation of the bilingual schools and abolishes the uncertain Greek schools, despite the recorded disagreements and concerns of the representatives of the family who consider the existing low-level bilingual schools. We will all agree that the aim of these schools should be to be children who are studying, to maintain ties with their home country, but also to be able to enter higher education both in Greece and in the host country. Minister, with the framework for the operation of bilingual schools to remain vague and be referred vaguely to the future, it seems that their role is being undermined in advance and there is a risk that the relatives will turn their back on them and turn to the purely foreign-language schools. In Article 16 and in Article 26 in the transitional provisions, you are empathetic to the question of the co-service of teachers, which their spouses work abroad, and without a bonus. You remove them from the possibility of seconding, because they were given a right to unpaid leave. You talk about customer relations but at the same time you want to send teachers with a mint when there are teachers who can offer no extra cost. At the same time, in accordance with Article 13, you regulate the choice of training coordinators abroad through a blurred procedure. Please indicate that different qualifications and characteristics of candidates are taken into account for the selection. What's each one's gravity? Aren't you willing to make it clear? Doesn't that mean favorableness to you? Also the excellent knowledge of the reception language that was a prerequisite for claiming the status is transformed into very good knowledge. You probably do not think it is important that the coordinator who will be invited to speak to foreign officials and enter into agreements should speak the language unfamiliarly. Evidently the priority is the'mother' and the position must be cut off and sewed into these measures. In a bill for Greek-language education, you choose to attack private education once again. I am referring to the famous Article 28. What are the government's things in education? The substantial abolition of model schools, the thousands of vacancies in education, the reduction of teaching hours in basic courses, the changes in the full-day school. What have you done? Intensify insecurity and concern for parents and pupils about the quality of the education provided. How do you try to hide the naked public school? Crying and degrading the private school, neutralising the comparative advantages of private education, the possibility of selecting educational staff and the extended educational programme. Mr. Friends had promised a year ago thousands of recruitments of permanent educational staff. Recruitment, of course, never took place. The promise proved, as usual, to the Government, air cut off and the announcement was transferred for 2017. Since Mr. Friends did not manage to simulate in public, he said to do so in private education. After failing to ensure the quality of study at the public school, he tells us that he will guarantee it to the private school. In what way? With its equilibrium in the logic of the downward equation and in the Soviet standards. You are, therefore, essentially making provision for the permanentization of private-sector teachers without conditions, without criteria. What do you say to a parent who is "blooding" in order to send his child to a private school and to ensure that, as he has every right, a higher quality of study? That he will be judged and evaluated daily in his work, while the teacher of his child will enjoy a peculiar immunity regardless of suitability and adequacy. What do you also say to the schoolmaster who can see his school lose his authority and shrink because of the lack of his teachers? How is the private person who has invested and who will bear the cost of potential bundles? I imagine you're telling him what my colleague Mrs. Kafantari said, that the time when someone was the boss of himself is over. It goes without saying that workers should be protected from any misery of school owners. Workers are already protected by labour legislation. They can be even more shielded, with exhaustive controls for undeclared work and severe penalties for those who are illegal. Minister, according to the Annual Labour Inspectorate Report, "Artemis" project, five hundred in kindergartens and elementary schools were found just one undeclared. In a hundred and fifty - year - old schools there was also an undeclared one. The way cannot be state supervision that leads essentially to the arrest of all. The only one who is favoured in this case is the unconscious teacher. Moreover, this regulation is very likely to lead to the opposite result from what you are supposed to be trying to do, namely to cause massive and blind redundancies without evaluation at the end of the two-year period, in order to avoid private school owners being able to avoid the permanentization of teachers. The regulation ultimately affects not only pupils and schools but also good teachers. The same philosophy governs the amendment on language schools and centres. The obligation to send weekly schedules adds additional bureaucratic burdens to the care centres. Clearly it should be checked, but in a flexible way, perhaps in the form of an electronic platform, as proposed in the committee's draft law debate. The setting of a full 24-hour working time is considered excessive, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises and border care centres which are the majority of these structures. Their possible shrinkage can lead to a strengthening of the paradox and undeclared work through the black particular courses and philosophers. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you are struggling to present your policy as a reform and promotion of the educational process. But in reality, you are judging certain guilds and paying bills to your electoral clientele. At the same time, satisfy your untreated ideas, because you are intolerant of any private initiative. You are allergic to excellence and every effort to progress and advance. One aspect of this concept unfolded towards the Olympians as well, when your executives in a complimentary recital tried to degrade their effort and reduce their success, because you are followers of the least common denominator and minor effort. This may suit you and fit you. But you can't drag Greece down and the new generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u164	Before giving the floor to the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Dannelly, I would like to make a statement on a request for a short-day absence. Congressman Michael Jellones is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from Thursday 1 September to Monday 5 September 2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u165	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr. Danielle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the conclusion of last year's negotiation on the signing of the SYRIZA Memorandum, a dilemma has also been answered which has tested our relationship as little as the correct reason, namely the question of whether bankruptcy has brought the memorials or the memoranda of bankruptcy. We thought so. Until summer the blind Themish decides to re-examine in-depth criminal responsibilities of former head of ELSTAT Mr Georgiou for malicious remarks of the financial data, since the country was forced to join for support programmes. Again, the mere propaganda resurrects that, with a statistical trick, our partners have also become our lenders, using their local lobbies or their non-organizations as well as the specific one, which has also been a member of the International Monetary Fund. This conspiracy interpretation of the problems of bankruptcy would simply be ridiculous if it were not in danger of eliminating the country's last whistle of international credibility towards partners and international markets. In addition to all others, it is tragic for the government to consider it politically convenient to revive the conspiracy of betrayals, rekindle the blind antimony division and, at the same time, strengthen the peculiar approach with the caramanlics of the New Democracy. It is tragic for the government to declare that justice has scientific competence, that it considers itself incapable of doing while having the General Accounting Office of the State, the Statistic Service and the other services of the Ministry of Finance. The Prime Minister must realise that with the shelves, the message that is being sent is nothing more than the question of the substance of the agreements that we have made with the partners, so that we can join the support programmes so that we do not end up unnecessarily destroying the country and society in full. Again victims of international conspiracy, once again siblings and betrayed. Ladies and gentlemen, we must not ask ourselves how Artemis Forra looks to be grounded in a society which is systematically trained in such naive and convenient a parallel way as to be negative. Two words on the subject of the day. The restoration of legality and transparency in the operation of television stations is a time-consuming demand of the vast majority of Greek citizens. The scandalous political relationship between political systems, media and banks is one of the main sources of losing people's confidence in politicians. The left-wing government had a privileged field at its disposal and could be written in history as one of its greatest achievements the cleansing and resolution of the television landscape. At the same time, it could deal with something we have not mentioned and should concern us - it should concern us - the regulation of the antisystemic information space, the clearing out of the various gray journalism schools that bloomed in the period of unspeakable populism as philosophical and denouncing, revealing, on the margins of official media, which uncontrollably continue to misinform themselves to slander and blackmail. Instead of pursuing the pluralism of information and the resolution of the landscape through the constitution of the Independent Authority of the National Broadcasting Council, the government has been tempted by the complaint about the misinterpretation of others and the creation of a new mediator oligopoly that supports any government choices. He chose the alchemys. He chose not to wait for the final crisis of the Council of State on the exclusion of the National Broadcasting Council from the whole process, an independent authority, which I would remind you that for its adoption in the early 1990s - the adoption in 2001 and the constitutional provision by the revision - it was a decisive role of the then Coalition, in which I shared with many of you, which we supported as an institutional hand of guaranteeing the independence of information from any authority. The effort to monitor our information moves us away from the European framework for the operation of mass media, in danger of recording with Hungary, Orban, in a category of specific countries, something of no value. Furthermore, it is particularly contradictory that you, ladies and gentlemen, who have given - and rightly so - so many struggles for ERT fired, are not interested in the fate of a number of hundreds of workers in the existing channels who will be out of service tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to pass on to today's draft law on the Ministry of Education, I heard yesterday the Minister, Mr Friend, referring to different readings and different ideological burdens of the term 'excellence'. What else did he mean by the historical forms of the Left unforgettable Gregory Pharakos, when shortly after the junta he urged young people with that historian, "First in the lessons, first in the race"? The encouragement to mediocracy promotes the interests of the weak? Lower levelling opens up prospects for a class upgrade of the folk layers? However, with regard to the debate on how to introduce alternative proposals into Greek universities and the possible abolition of pan-Hellenic examinations, it is neither original nor new. The issue had been dealt with in the public debate too many times, but, ultimately, it did not offer a stable, realistic and effective system that was not oriented towards papalia and was not exterminant to the student system and, above all, did not offer a system that upgraded secondary education, but of course the Greek university itself. This year, we saw a large number of pupils spending under the base in higher education. We need to discuss the upgrading of secondary education, the decoupling of the high school from the pan-Hellenic exams and its removal from the parrot, which exterminates the student, without giving him knowledge and judgment. It is necessary to modernise the curriculum, but also to upgrade the educational staff, which can only go through the creation of incentives for continuing training and, of course, evaluation. I have a lot to say, but time is always limited. I just want to say a phrase in relation to a statement by Mr. Friend, that there should be no white pages in the history school books in relation to the civil war. We in Potami believe that a sufficient time has passed from the events so that they can be seen and said, without the risk of rescheduling disastrous sufferings of the past. Moreover, it is an element of maturity for a society to be able to reverse the painful moments of its past. The useful approach of history, which has been attempted in the past, was something that the Left has always burned. Today's students and tomorrow's citizens must be taught the black pages of our modern history, namely the Civil War, as well as the seven-year-old dictatorship. Yes, well, in the teaching of the civil war, but far from ideological and one-sided approaches. I conclude by saying that we should pursue all the best possible convergences with education, our educational system. We all agree on the rhetoric that it is the major issue that should concern us and, of course, the condition of exiting from the multiple crisis that is plagued by us, not only economic, worthy, institutional, cultural. However, we need acts here and not just statements, Minister. The government has a splendid field of glory in front of it. If he really wants the upgrading of education, the upgrading of the educational system, he can find the vulnerability ears of counterpopulation and proceed to major changes, in large areas. But we are waiting for acts and not, of course, for statements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u167	So do we. Mrs Maria Antonio has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing today at the second plenary session after the summer holiday period, ten days before the schools begin, before the first bell hit, with a bill from the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs on arrangements for Greek-language education, intercultural education and other provisions. It is a bill that, while it aims, as it says in Article 1, to upgrade and improve Greek-language education abroad and to promote Greek-language and Greek culture - something that naturally finds us in agreement - it will probably cause more problems, rather than giving solutions, Minister. Of course, the Minister in 30 minutes of his speech, only for Greek-language education, was not mentioned. He searched and found '76 articles. And what he told us. He told us that what was written in '76, in relation to the issues of education, is timely in today's bill. In other words, while technology runs, education around the world progresses rapidly, it actually turns us back to education forty years, at least. Isn't that what you're doing, Minister? Meetings on a bill on Greek-language education are held on a rampage. And explain why: The meetings of the committees took place in three days, without even having any time to call the bodies - for them, after all, we are talking about foreign affairs. We have received too many protests on this issue. Why was it so urgent, since it will apply from 2017 and 2018? The answer is that before schools start, we want to make some amendments. I would like to remind you here that I had asked the Minister about this, pointing out the problems faced by hundreds of Greek parents, whose children are in Greek school in Bucharest, where they need to spend thousands of euros on three children. And still - I think - find a solution. For a very important issue, then, of Greek-language education, of the people, of the Greeks who live abroad, you continue to legislate without a plan. In particular, Article 3 provides that Greek-language education abroad will be provided by bilingual schools, despite the fact that it has been pointed out by all the people that bilingual schools - particularly in Germany, Mr Minister - are at the level of a right-wing school. And that's not all. With Article 26(2), you are essentially enacting the closure from the school year 2018-2019 of all purely Greek primary, high school and high school abroad and their compulsory conversion into bilinguals, without even describing their framework of operation and without any advancement. What are you guys doing in other words? You take the right of Greek foreign children to be educated in Greek schools, with a direct risk that their parents will prefer purely foreign schools - for example, purely German - instead of bilingual. So instead of strengthening children's contact with the Greek language, you cut it off once and for all. We now go to Articles 16 and 26(1) which regulate the secondments of teachers abroad. In the recent L.4386/2016, and in particular Article 45 thereof, it is foreseen that, as of 2017 and 2018, temporary extensions of secondment of teachers from abroad, who had entered into a marriage with a permanent resident abroad, are to be abolished. Ladies and gentlemen, in the debate on this bill, which I had the honour of proposing at the time, I mentioned this arrangement, which would lead to hundreds of teachers, legally seconded, either in the separation or in the search for a new job. Why is that so? In order for the government to detract from the teachers from Greece with a bailout? In a time of crisis, recession, pension cuts, tax increases, what does the government do? It establishes the replacement of teachers who are paid exclusively for an internal salary, with teachers from Greece paid for with an additional salary. So, will the Greek taxpayer pay SYRIZA's ruffles? Nor could I refer to Article 28 and private education regulations. The Government's apparent inability to upgrade public school and public education, together with its ideas against all private education, lead to another attempt to degrade private education. The proposed regulation seeks to remove comparative advantages of private education, the possibility of selecting and evaluating educational staff, the possibility of defining and diversifying the educational programme. Like I said, you're trying to turn us back forty years. The special education amendment has made several references to all the New Democracy colleagues. We are voting against this attempt to equate special education with the others. [[At this point, the warning bell closes the speaking time of the honourable Member]] But you will give me a minute, because I would like to refer to Amendment No 640, for which I also asked for the floor. So, as far as Amendment 640/31 on research and innovation is concerned, I would like to stress the following: first, with the amendment, it says - it says that the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs will be authorised to allocate and manage the first EUR 18 000 000 - this funding will be allocated - among other things, to the launch and operation of a Greek research and innovation institution. It's a ghost. There is no legislation, there is no legal or institutional framework for it. Secondly, the amendment refers to a loan contract signed - it says - our country on 15 July with the European Investment Bank, whose content we do not know. I have asked you, Minister, under number 472, to submit a letter from July to us in order to be able to examine the conditions, the conditions of lending, the objectives of the loan. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, give me a minute to finish my position. I am presenting for the Minutes the request for a document, for which neither the Greek Members nor the citizens of that state have answered, namely the loan contract that you have prepared. [[At this point, the Member of the New Democracy, Maria Antonio, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned application for a document, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And while you intend to create this institution, you are still entrusting these first ten years to the GPA. So, why would you set up this foundation? What's behind it? So your inability as a government is now becoming a daily routine. This, however, costs the Greek economy and the Greek society dearly. So the best thing you have to do is resign, because as the late Paul Bakoyannis said, which you seem to read: "In democracy there are no dead ends." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u169	Mr Georgiotis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if today's meeting were to be attended by a Greek abroad who has his children attending schools - especially some Munich's resident - I think they would be sad. They would be sad, because here we are having a debate, which is like doing it in another field, at another level, away from the real problems of Greek students in foreign schools, and the minutes and the education. It is shameful for this government that we have not been able to complete the process of building the school in Munich. In January 2015 - particularly on January 16th - the founding of this great project, which would help the thirty thousand permanent residents of the wider Munich region, took place after a long delay, so that their children actually have a roof to provide them with the education they want. The project started in January - I note - in 2015. A few days later, something that we've been living on since. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government was created. There's been delays. There were no necessary advances. There was a proud negotiation at the time. In August 2015, a new agreement was made with the Municipality of Munich in order to implement the project in a new timetable. Unfortunately, the commitments made by the Greek side and not those made. I would like to point out here - because some people may not remember - that in March of this year 2016, the Government brought an amendment to the House for extraordinary financing of the contractor of the project, to which the political parties agreed, in order to facilitate the situation. However, while this was voted for by Parliament in March 2016, we finally had the decision of the Munich City Council on 20 July, which effectively revoked the concession of the land. Questions are many and the consequences, unfortunately, are unbearable for Greeks abroad. Who was present at the Munich Munich Munich City Council, who was present, in order to really demonstrate our intention to carry out this work, to ask for a consensus on a new timetable? Who fought this big thing? Who is currently responsible for the money, which has been given and which has actually been given a 'black hole'? Because the work was done to a certain extent. They take us back the plot and whatever money was given, it's lost. Who fought this big thing? And today we are talking about Greek-language education abroad. They laugh at the Greeks of Germany and they're embarrassed at the same time. The bill's here, and we're trying to see what's positive. And we start with the basic: Educational Coordinators or school directors. These positions are very important, with great responsibility, with very great responsibilities. The place of foreign education coordinators is essentially the link between the Ministry of Education of Greece and the services of the foreign country in which the schools are located. It has a competence on courses, on the whole education programme. However, instead of strengthening the qualifications of these people, we are reducing them. We ask, not for excellent knowledge of the language in the country in which it is located and will take the place of the coordinator or the school manager, but very good knowledge. I cannot understand the feasibility of such an arrangement. I really can't understand it. Does he, in other words, actually direct such a school and make all contacts with people abroad, should he not have an excellent knowledge of that language? So I do not understand why this is falling. I guess we all get it. Instead of strengthening the criteria, instead of making people's choices more reliable in such positions of responsibility, they are being reduced. That's a, I think, SYRIZA's conscious choice. In private education I cannot understand the logic that the person hired as a teacher in the first year and not in his duties will not be made redundant. Anyone who has worked in the private sector knows very well - better - that the good teacher is not fired by his employer. No one good, in any area of private economic life, gets fired if he does his job well. But should his employer wait two years to see if he's gonna fire him? I can't really understand that logic. Even in public there is the two-year trial. Why cannot this right be granted to the one who starts and is inadequate? I really don't understand it. Moreover, on the basis of old legislation, the contract became indefinite after the end of the two-year period. There was protection. Of course, we must also have confidence in our courts, which, of course, have decisions where redundancies are abusive, intervene and correct any such issue. I must also mention - in the one minute left - and in the degrees of private TEIs, in the irregular degrees. I don't want to talk about fakes. The fakes have a certain path. The road is: Prosecutor and fired. That's my point of view. The irregularity, however, is that those who had this degree - someone who studied at a private TE, who did not meet the criteria of the law, who might not know it, because he did not have a licence, is not obliged to know that each student was not right, nor could that know it - a possibility was sometime given with additional examinations to settle. I do not understand why, however, this extends and expands until today. At that time, a specific issue had arisen. Everyone is now suspected, everyone is aware of the subject, which has emerged. Therefore, the logic is only to settle with additional examinations those who graduated at that time. I cannot understand the logic and the feasibility of reaching it to this day. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Thank you very much. I am sorry that today I am not proud of a bill that concerns such a crucial issue for my country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, too. Mr. Papatheodorou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u172	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, beforehand, I would like to thank Mr Vlavo for this change. I'm going straight to the point. Finally, the curiosity and party feasibility shown by the Ministry of Education in all its legislative initiatives demonstrates every day how dangerous they are for the world of education. It's awkward. Ladies and gentlemen, Greek-language education. Nineteen articles. In these nineteen articles, which I have read very carefully, the Ministry of Education, the Minister, largely acts as a replicator of a previous legislation. What do I mean by that? Here we have the draft law. This is the 2011 law, PASOK. I sat down and read the two texts. I'm tabling them for the Minutes, too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] Written by the same words, the same words. Listen, Article 1 is a simple repetition, in other words, of Article 1 of Law 4027/2011. Article 2, "Greek Languages", is the only article added as an institution of Greek-language education and the Orthodox Church abroad. Article 3 is exactly the same as the previous article of 2011, Article 2. Article 5 ‘Strengthening Greek-language education’ is an absolute repetition of Article 5 of Law 4027/2011. Article 7 is exactly the same as the corresponding article 8 of Law 4027/2011. Article 8 of the draft law is exactly the same as Article 9 of 4027/2011. You can see it. Article 10 is an absolute repetition of Article 11 of 2011. Articles 11,13,14 are the same. Article 15, in the categories of staff, is absolutely identical to Article 17 of Law 4027/2011. Educational secondments: Here we have a change in criteria. Furthermore, Article 18, for the offices of coordinators, is exactly the same as Article 19, we simply change and reduce the criteria for coordinators abroad. Why have you tabled a draft law on Greek-language education? It's really a copy of the previous law. What's more cost? It's cut something. You have reduced the criteria for training coordinators and changed the criteria for seconded teachers. Minister, this is where I really want to propose. Since you are changing the criteria for seconded staff, for those who are abroad, they are in mixed marriages, they have minor children and they do not receive the bonus - without therefore burdening the Greek state - make a transitional provision so that they can stay for a transitional period, because otherwise in a year they will not just change their lives. I think the Greek state has won from its presence abroad. Look at it, please. The social reasons are clear. Intercultural education: You say in the definition of intercultural education, changing that of '96, the aim is to remove inequalities and social exclusion. That, of course, is the ultimate objective. You should see it in your general education policies so that we don't stay in simple proclamations. The issue of social exclusion, as far as education is concerned, is already dealt with by the 2010 PASOK law, with v. In the field of education and training, the Council adopted Regulation (EEC) No 3879/79 laying down the SPAs, the areas of priority education and training. You, however, abolish the logic of the SPAs, which see society as a single set, and adopt the logic of separation. In your intercultural education for a strange reason the Roma are absent, there are no. Suddenly, we don't read anything about this population charge. The children of immigrants are missing. They are not treated as either Greek citizens or potential Greek citizens, but as an exotic object of charity. We voted for the law to get these children Greek citizenship and you have so far not implemented it. You say in Article 21 that the purpose of intercultural education is to register children with a different one - listen, ladies and gentlemen, it is important - cultural origin in schools together with native children. Who are the natives? Who are they? What do you mean by "family"? Where did you get that term? Legally, is there a term native? Are the Roma or the children of immigrants born in Greece, the Greek Jews, Muslims, Catholics? Are you even messing with definitions? How you mean intercultural education is proven by the way you treat children of refugees. You're preparing structures, not joining classes. You'll see that later. Why? Because until now, when we have been saying "start a process, because these children have the right to register in schools", you start a process that is accumulated in Northern Greece, because your immigration policy has failed and, of course, cannot be linked to education policy. The educational objectives set by this legislation are objectives of misery and manipulation. Intercultural schools baptise them "experimentally". But I must tell you that we need a review of intercultural schools. But if you open up the law, you will see that you cannot apply this from tomorrow, because a special procedure is needed to establish the experimental schools, even in the way you currently want them. There are also mistakes and inconsistency in the text which has been consulted in the committee. It's not my job to do that. I shall tell you very briefly: Correct Article 25. You write that ‘the directors of public schools are chosen according to the principles applicable to the selection of directors of other public schools’. It doesn't make any sense. Madam Minister, since you're here, two remarks and I'm done with this. It's really important. You're bringing some changes to the universities. The first change is in Article 27. I heard what you said this morning. There is no retrospectiveness, Minister. And there is no retrospectiveness, because it violates the principle of administrative law of legitimate expectations. These people did not know in 2000, in 2011, in 2015, before the 2016 law, that if they participate in companies, they should pay off. So do it in a clear way, that from now on or beyond 2016 they can and must do so. But you know what? That retroactiveness will suppress. And he'll swallow because they didn't know. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] If some of them knew - and I give you the floor - they would go as part-time, as you say. Why do you want to punish them? And I shall end, Mr President, with this really: Minister, you are changing the moves. You change the mobility of teachers between regional and central universities. And I say to you this: what I consider to be unacceptable and totally vengeful is that you want to change the movements in terms with which I personally agree. However, the right, that is, the self-employed university to invite a teacher from another university, not only to honour you, but from there you also create problems in the existing process. Why? Will you say - and will this pass by the Greek Parliament - that what we are voting on today will apply retroactively for those who have applied for almost a year or two? Who do you want to avenge? The ones you've applied for before you guys find yourself thinking that you want to change...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u173	Have a chance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u174	You want to change it? Change it. Change it from now on, Minister. That's the way clear things are. Otherwise, you put photos behind the relevant legislation. Under these conditions, I tell you that this legislation does not really honor the Ministry and does not honor the needs that Greek education has at the moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u175	Mr President, I would like the floor for a minute for two clarifications.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u176	You're welcome. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u177	For the first time, for the PPE, I will insist that it is not a matter of retrospectiveness. Retrospectiveness is when something's been established. You know that better than I do. You're legal. He's not sure here. We have no vengeance. I said it when I spoke. I guess you were gone. The interpretative provision was needed, because the rector authorities were in danger. We have a legislative improvement. You know that very well. A university full-time student, when engaged in a profession, is obliged to put an end to the PPE. Not to expressly say whether they are companies or not, it does not relieve anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u178	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u179	Oh, no. They have to be sure, and then we'll see what happens. And I don't want any man who hasn't paid to be found to pay a million. As for the moves and the moves you have said, as you can see, we have nothing in mind. We don't get to avenge ourselves. There's nowhere else in the world but us. It had been for specific reasons in the 1980s to bring people of known prestige and all of this. Do you know what happened, Mr. Papatheodorou? University with medical school to lose within one year three university doctors through revocation. We had an explosion in real travel and transportation. I'll tell you one thing. I understand the periphery colleagues. As in all the universities in the world and once five hundred seats have been placed and there will be another five hundred, why not make a normal election? I mean, the school he wants them to call, the department he wants them to stay away from regional universities. That was our big problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u180	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u181	Come on, Mr. Papatheodorou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u182	I'll see about that. And you're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u183	Mrs. Kerameau has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr President. The bill we are discussing today is not just about Greek-language and intercultural education, and let us mention selectively and certainly not just this title. It is for private education and therefore for the private initiative. While it could be regarded as good news that the government is involved in Greek-language and intercultural education, it is certainly not good news that the government's ideological position towards private initiative nor its statistical concept of education in general. It is not good news for the government's political choice with an article in this legislation to manipulate private education. I am referring to Rule 28. There's been a lot of noise. I would like to clarify this right from the outset. The New Democracy is no porte - nobody's parole. The New Democracy is with the Greek citizens, with the Greek students, who have the right to enjoy a high level of education whether it is public or private. They are with Greek parents who are struggling for whether their children will have access to quality education. We see that the SYRIZA Government - ANEL on a systematic and concrete basis, both against public and private education. It acts against innovation and modernisation in education. He ultimately votes against excellence, highlighting the minor effort as ideal. To speak specifically, I would remind you: firstly, the abolition of pilot schools, secondly, the deterioration of experimental schools, thirdly, the deterioration of digital school and the full-day school. The government's attempt to balance down does not, however, stop in public education. The government is also attempting to stimulate private education by showing an ideological obsession with the private initiative. What were you doing in private education? Step one, you have tried to impose VAT on private education against European acquisitions. Step two, which has not been much discussed these days, you have sent a document to the relevant directorates, according to which private schools - listen - are not allowed to evaluate their teachers. Instead of making every effort to extend the evaluation to each aspect of the public sector, you are abolishing the evaluation in the private sector as well. I really can't understand why you're saying no to evaluation. The evaluation gives incentives for improvement in medium and pays justice, commending him. But you say no to evaluation, and that is how you say no to excellence. Today you are making an effort to manipulate private education. Manipulation, which finds its absolute expression in Article 28 of this draft law. So, what are you doing with this article? You are trying to remove the two basic features of private education, i.e. the possibility of selecting and managing educational staff and the possibility of further training activities. Ladies and gentlemen, our Constitution protects education in all its aspects whether it is public or private. It ensures and guarantees education as the state's main mission, with free access to all its grades and guarantees the operation of private training. It goes without saying, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, that I would ask you to take your attention, that the workers of teachers should be protected from any misery of schoolchildren, but the way in which they are protected is not their permanentity. You do not protect teachers by not allowing their evaluation. You do not protect them by the contested provisions, you harm them, because you prevent them from developing with an incentive to evaluate, prevent them from constantly trying to get better. And you do not only harm them, you do harm so many other worthy teachers, who are currently looking for worthy jobs in private schools, in private education, and who, of course, will not find jobs to the extent that you are perpetuating the active teachers, teachers who can be judged inadequate. Yes, well, we must protect teachers from the possible immunity of private schools. How are we gonna do that? Firstly, the application of an evaluation mechanism based on predefined criteria for all. Secondly, with exhaustive controls to combat undeclared work. Thirdly, by imposing stricter penalties for offenders. Fourthly, with the judicial review by the courts for the lawfulness of the employment framework, the employment contract and, where appropriate, the legality of any dismissal if it occurs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is judicial authority that is responsible for punishing the owner if he has committed an abusive and unfair dismissal. That is not the responsibility of the executive. It is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Education's service councils. I only shiver myself to mention it, but if the Ministry of Education decides to dismiss private teachers, then the next step is to see the Minister of State decide to dismiss journalists in private channels, the Minister of Health to decide dismissals of doctors in private hospitals, the Minister of Justice to decide redundancies in legal offices. Mr Gavroglou told us yesterday that you of the New Democracy are concerned only with the right of schoolchildren to dismissal and not with the right of workers to decent work and that, in order to protect this right to decent work, these service councils are to be adopted. Eventually, do you in SYRIZA want to abolish justice? Do you want to replace justice with committees of ministries? I have also heard that these redundancies control committees are well placed to put a brake on black and undeclared work. So, ladies and gentlemen, do you not believe in the stepping stones of the labour inspection? How much more over-concentration of power with the ministers and their executives? But this is your regular tactic: Overconcentration of power. You did the same with the amendment that was tabled late yesterday, shortly before the debate in Parliament was opened. You anticipate the unprecedented, Minister. You provide that a decision of the Minister of Education is required to move teachers to another department of the same or other HEI. Again, we have over-concentration of powers, which is also being destroyed by the self-government of universities. You did the same with television licences, you transferred powers from the constitutionally-established independent authority, the National Broadcasting Council, to the Minister of State. You have done the same with the EMCDDA. You have provided a supervisory clause for the independent authority by the Minister. Overconcentration of powers everywhere. Ladies and gentlemen, in every democratic city there are balances, there are control bodies, there are so-called checks and balances, and that is why there is judicial authority, to judge all of us and the school owners, whether they legally run their businesses, as to whether they respect the rights of teachers. It is inconceivable that these are judged by officials of the Ministry of Education and indeed without even having the right to be heard by those concerned. The Ministry of Education, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, cannot replace the judge's judgment. I do not know how many of you have been able to deal with labour law, but this is an extremely important area of law in which the courts are generally favourable to workers. We tell you very clearly: New Democracy, when it becomes a government, will restore the two basic features... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I did not speak yesterday and I would ask for your tolerance. I say this again, in order to strengthen this: the New Democracy, when it becomes a government, will restore the two basic features of private education, from which you are denying it today, namely the possibility of selecting and managing private teachers and the possibility of carrying out additional activities, and will also restore the prohibition of eternal students, a provision that has been secretly passed by an amendment of night, which suddenly provides for the reintroduction of eternal students, because it abolishes a provision which it mentions until they maintain their student status. In conclusion, I would like to make a reference to Article 27 and to the noise that has been created regarding the retention of gross remuneration from university universities, who have a free profession in favour of the PPE. Minister, this is your concern. Say that he is a professor at the Polytechnic University and at the same time engages in professional activity through a technical company. Until now, the law did not impose any retention in favour of the PPE from the dividends it receives from the company. Now the legislator comes in and tells him that he has to give a percentage of the dividends he gets from the company. Fair, but the law can't tell him "performed and percentaged to all dividends received over the past twenty years", because very simply then there was no provision of a law that says it owes percentages of those dividends. And not only was there no law, Minister, but there was an opinion from the Legal Board of the State at the University of Athens, number 55/2005, which stated explicitly that this revenue from a company is not subject to the contribution to the PPE. Any arrangement now can only apply to the future, because the Constitution expressly states it in Article 78(2): "Forest or any financial burden - whatever nature this may have - cannot be imposed by a law of retroactive force..." and in particular must apply only to the future so that everyone can take its measures, resign from the university or resign from the company. The Scientific Office of the Parliament itself notes this on page 6 of its report. It tells you quite clearly that what is envisaged is unconstitutional. And I'm closing. The New Democracy, Minister, intends to vote in favour of this provision only if it expressly provides for the avoidance of any doubt that this new company dividend arrangement will only apply after the publication of the law. In order to make it easier for you, I am currently presenting a relevant legislative improvement in the Minutes, a proposal which states precisely that in order to avoid any doubt that the collection of dividends will only apply from the publication of the law in the Leaf of the Official Journal of the Government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, too. Mr Georgios Vlachos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when discussing education and national defence issues, one expects that there will be an easy consultation between the political forces. However, this did not seem to be the case at all in this bill that we discussed earlier in committee and now in plenary. And this shows the government's obsession with certain regulations, which are obviously not documented and come to serve some other purposes, beyond those of education. Both our rapporteur and my colleague, Mr New Democracy, have heard earlier, as well as colleagues, arguments and substantiated objections on very specific issues. And we waited for these objections to be heard in concrete terms. That's not what we can do. It has not been done so far, and I am very afraid it will not be until the end of the sitting. So I, like all my fellow Members, will insist on these key points in the bill, waiting for some answers to be given by the end. For example, our rapporteur for Greek-language education told you that we can see bilingual schools and replace asbestos, but under certain conditions. You insist that you do not speak. There are certain rights being lost by those who are today in incomplete schools and you do not seem to be in any way guaranteeing them with bilingual schools. So we're very afraid - and remember that - that they're going to leave unmistakable Greek schools and go to the unmistakable foreign languages in the country they are. Isn't that what you're interested in? That's none of your business, isn't it? Is that why you feel no need to answer? In order not to respond, Minister, it means that you have not ensured it. Because if you had ensured this with bilateral contacts with these countries, you would easily have told us and stopped here. But you haven't done that. So why do you come here today and want to turn unmistakable schools into bilinguals without these conditions? I'd say, look at the best, look at the complete one and bring it in. First of all, we do not have an opposing view of this approach, but we do not have the rights of both our students and our country. For example, I come to another point. We keep telling you about the coordinators. We understand that you want to change existing coordinators. In any case, however, you could do it with people who are qualified. So you put them down and counted them and saw that they didn't come out of you. And you're saying what we miss? The tongue. Well, it's okay if they go to some country and don't know the language! You see that as a quality, as a positive one? Is that something that helps the man who's going to make the coordinator in a country, in his contacts in that country, when he doesn't know the language? Or are you thinking of charging a interpreter to attend and escort the coordinator? So explain to us why you are doing it and where the whole system is qualitatively upgrading. We told you about the seconded people, and we told you that many have organized their lives there, having made marriages in the country they live. And you come in light of the heart, and you want to replace them. For what exactly? Will you go better? These people that have built up, have they built their lives there with the present ones, will they suddenly be in nowhere? And what exactly do you serve? Why are you upsetting the lives of tens of hundreds, even thousands of people, without telling us what your goal is, what are you going to achieve with it? Why are you doing this? Because we are unable to understand why you are doing so in the name of education. We are also unable to understand the amendment you have put forward to ban the cumulation of private schools of care and centres of foreign languages. If the school has an afternoon program in which it teaches foreign languages, if the school has an afternoon program and does a lot of instruction - I know many schools in the Attica area and is a criterion, if you want, for many families to take their children, having an afternoon instruction at the school itself and getting away with the movement - why do you forbid it? In other words, you tell him "as business, you can have a private school in this building and in the afternoon you will rent another building to provide medical assistance or a foreign language". That's exactly what you tell us honestly - and you see I keep very low tone - why do you do it? Tell us what it's gonna do. You can't answer all of this. These are everyday life, you know, not these glorious plans, which you come and tell us, and that's why you're not talking at all. I'm coming to the last for private education. You reminded us, Minister, of the beautiful film "The wood came out of heaven". Apparently you've been behind decades. In any case, do you use a comedy, which was a comedy for her time, much more today, to tell us that this is the private school? Do you have this picture for private schools, Papastavrou?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u187	Is that what you understand? Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u188	I keep from the private schools the hundreds of successes that have had in the recent introductory examinations, competition, fair play between large schools. And I'm telling you this because in the Attica area, which I live and deal with, there are dozens of private training courses and, you know, competition is too big. No parent's going to take his kid to the school hotel infrastructure. He will, however, take it for his programme, for how knowledge is transmitted. These parents are looking for them, and because they're looking for them, they have some criteria. You know, these criteria, which distinguish one school from the other, you want to abolish them. Go to leveling. While you tell us that it is a public good, you actually see them as a heinous employer and since they are employers and even a heinous person, against you, they must be punished. And instead of climbing the public school and being a model for everyone, it sounds - and I tell you, I've finished, and my kids public school - let's go down the private. Is that a comparison measure? Do you want to close them? Do you want to go state-of-the-art? Because, you know, it's a solution too. In order to deceive them, do you want to join the public education area and take over their funding for the state? I shall conclude, Mr President. Because the Minister was highly invoked at the time of Constantine Karamanlis and George Rallis, I would say that you invoked a time when there was a very specific policy and a government of Constantine Karamanlis who knew exactly what he wanted to do about private education. I am very afraid that you do not know what you want to do and call for fragmentary criticisms of people at that time, who today say nothing at all. And you invoke them without knowing why you invoke them. Yesterday, at some point, I felt that Mr. Friends was fighting me, because we are not implementing the radical liberalism of Constantine Karamanlis. That's how I felt, that's how I felt uncomfortable, we're disadvantaged. Are you fighting about this, too? You know, caramanism for some is a way of thinking and life.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u189	Tell them to figure it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u190	Everyone understands. I know where I say it. And above all, it is not possible for the Left to use fragmentary policies and expressions that never expressed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u191	Thank you. Mr Skouriakos has the floor from the same region as Mr Vlao.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this is the very important bill under discussion, which includes arrangements for Greek-language education abroad, private education - and Mr Vlachos and I have experience, because in the Attica region we have many private schools, but we have different views - intercultural education and other provisions. In other words, it deals with issues and recommends changes in the context of the knowledge and skills that we owe to the new generation, particularly in a sensitive category of Greek children, children and grandchildren of Greek immigrants, where land. On the occasion of my recent participation in a conference of the Federation of Greek Communities of the Federal Republic of Germany, in collaboration with the Greek community of Nuremberg on the issue of the bilingual Greek school, as a challenge for the present and as an opportunity for the sustainability of the Greek schools in the future, I received strong support from the parents of the bilingual Greek school as an educational institution, which enables children to continue studies in the Greek and German educational system as well. In other words, children should join both Greek and German. Ladies and gentlemen, the educational system, as regards Greek-language education abroad, has been stagnating on the rails that had been placed since the 1960s and no one has since thought that perhaps the seasons have changed, perhaps the speeds that run in the countries where Greek immigrants live are such that have dramatically left behind any arrangements that had been made by the Greek governments and which are no longer in line with modern requirements. So this bill comes to respond with modern language to modern problems. It comes, ladies and gentlemen, to face phenomena of opacity, waste and maladministration. Because, of course, it has so far reached the client state, which had been established for so many years in our country, reproducing all the metropolitan diseases. So, by declaring Greek-language education abroad and economic resources were spent for no reason, but there was also no State's response to the right of Greeks to maintain and cultivate the Greek language as a basis for the conquest by the children of Greek education and culture, for which we are often boastful. As a result, we had children in many letters and unlinguistics, while we recorded many leaks from Greek schools to the schools in the countries where immigrants lived. Moving on, I think, ladies and gentlemen, that the universal certificate of Greek identity by the specialised institution of the Ministry in full correspondence with the common European reference framework for languages is a self-evident obligation for the state, which at last is adapted - I repeat - to modern data on the safe and effective recording of someone's competence in Greek. Ladies and gentlemen, to be honest, in the field of education ideologies, world theories, opinions on tomorrow's citizens and even on the country's course are conflicting. I understand our differences and still understand that we cannot agree on everything. However, on some issues of national importance, such as education abroad, we are obliged to coordinate ourselves for the benefit of immigrants, those of our compatriots, who over time have had to look for their fate in a foreign place. I myself also welcome what is being done by this government today in the field of education and you must applaud them. In other words, I think that almost five million copies of books have been sent to schools for many weeks before the end of the previous school year. I'm sorry, but we all remember Mrs Diamantopoulou's photocopies November, so our children can learn letters. I consider it important to recruit twenty-thousand teachers, and I think it is a disgrace that, in budgetary terms, schools will finally work on time this year, flawless and exemplary, for the first time. I read the PASOK papers on private education and heard the statements made by its Members. I am sorry to say that it looks like they raised the announcements of the New Democracy of 1982 and the respective statements of its Members, when PASOK, with the Minister of State, Leuteris Veryvaki, brought to the House a law on private education, where there was provision for the rights of private teachers. It's so sad! However, it seems that from 1982 to 2016 and from the socialist PASOK to the neoliberal New Democracy "a cigarette street", which the people say. Now, as far as the New Democracy is concerned, there are people who are fundamentally conservative, in the good sense. They're people clinging to the past, in the good sense again. In the past, however, there have been opinions on private education in contrast to those expressed today. Georgios Rally's views are not fragmented. It was the essence and the main thought of her policy. On Paul Bakoyannis's text, read here yesterday by the Minister, was not fragmentary, these were not fragmentary. But it seems to be a past from which today's New Democracy wants to take distances. It seems that the road from radical liberalism of Constantine Karamanlis to the blind neoliberalism of today's leadership is far away. Either way, voting in favour of this bill will only offer the new generation positive services given that education is a social right, dare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u193	Mr. Hadjisavvas from Golden Dawn has the floor. Mr. Hajisavva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr President. It is a little strange to hear the SYRIZA Members use earlier terms of neo-democrats to defend the policy they are now exercising, but this is how the attempt to ethnicise and extinction of Greek education continues from this Memorandum of Understanding with a project that finds deliberate mistakes, to make endemic, blackmailed in a hostage of teachers, who will, in this way, join the party army that is being prepared. The Minister for Friendship, having created a body of new institutions, eventually overthrows them as a great regulator. So the world sees a dispute over a bill of education and thinks it is about the good of children. However, the major conflict became practically for private schools. This is particularly of interest to the New Democracy. She doesn't care if the schools are filled with children of illegal immigrants. All she cares about is not harming private education.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u195	There's no one in the cabinet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u196	I don't mind. Let's not be anyone. So, on the one hand, we have the government, which wants to put a box on the teachers' unions, taking a story and a few right employers, because there are some right employers. On the other hand, the New Democracy wants employers to have an uncontrolled function, describing all educational opportunities and should prove that they are not elephant judicially after years and then a feast, taking falsifications from them, the teachers, who carry out their duties properly. Both together now are taking the students and their families who have been in the middle of this conflict. For purely Greek schools, which you want to become bilingual, it may be an incentive, but there is ambiguity about the participation of foreign states in the way they operate, although worse management by the Memorandum Governments I don't think they have another state. The nice thing is that I read through that one of the criteria for the selection of teachers abroad will be personal interview. While in Greece you characterize it as a customer relationship, it does not apply abroad, it is right. For the amendment under number 641 and special 62 we have accepted hundreds of e-mails, our servers have been filled by e-mail, constantly complaining from teachers for special education and training schools. Of course, we are voting against. Now, the so-called supporter of public and free Philis education takes out idiots who studied four years and equates them with private titles, with private title holders, who are often purchased from well-known heavy postgraduate industries, paid dearly, and says they will set order and see who the fakes are and who are not. He says he's going to put his friend in order! Here, the controversy between government and teachers is again paid by students with disabilities and their families, who have thousands of problems in all their stages of integration, from the CEPOL to the beginning and by going to all levels, who will crush between the two conflicting sides, once again and count against the concurrent losses of your ideological policy. Now, I would like to talk about the eighty-five structures for the integration of children of illegal immigrants, but I would first like to say better about intercultural schools, although Mr Mitafidis is missing, to which I wish to refer. This'memorandum fighter', Mr Mitafidis, said this in committee. He visited - he says - an intercultural school in Thessaloniki and found that none Greeks sent his child to this intercultural school, so he got ghettoised. So, this is an immediate assumption that it can't work. You now come to make eight hundred fifty structures - new ones, but also existing school buildings. In other words, you will put with sunnits, Shia, Alevites, Christians. Outside Jehovah’s witnesses have built centres of proselytism. And you think that all this will work. You've already lied to local communities that these children and their parents have come here guests for a while, they're passers-by and they're going away, but they're not at all pass-by. They will stay and become a link to the bill that it had passed on citizenship and will be awarded citizenship to all. Of course, now, to refer a little to a local issue, Idomeni, which you say has been licensed, you know, has not been empty. They've scattered around the surrounding areas and surrounding villages and they're waiting for something to happen back there. Do you know what they're expecting to happen there? NGO's gone and they're trying to buy land. Will any of these eighty-five schools also become such plots as will be controlled by NGOs? Will they also be filled with these strange people who have come from all over Europe who are NGO officials and have seen in the reports that you have made huge lists of paid and non-State organisations entering schools and who are doing their homework, that is to say, where the police could not do them any control or control, outside, in the Hostile Centers, in the concentration camps? Now are these structures going into school? Who are they gonna help? I'm sure there'll be some problems and you'll say they'll be covered by them. So our proposal is to make radical changes in education. Education should be public and free, that everyone has equal opportunities, that they do not need any care, that the Greek family does not have to spend any more than that, because it is being exaggerated to get these benefits anyway. Nationalist teachers should be able to teach children what national right is, that is, the student who enters the first grade, when he ends basic education to know for himself what is national right, that the national government at that time does not need to teach him how to operate nationally properly, because the priest and the teacher will have taught him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u197	Mrs Vaki, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Mr President, and state first of all that I would like to make use of the time of my dentistry. I haven't spoken. Ladies and gentlemen, by circumventing the sad rages and cries which have been heard these days and desecrating the space in which we find ourselves, dividing people into two categories: the people and the human beings, the 'lawful' and the 'lady' - in introductory words - the 'healthy' and the 'infective' - within too many introductory forms - I would therefore like to begin with the last article in the bill, which concerns the reception structures for the education of refugees. The era of globalisation has opened wide-ranging roads and avenues to free and uninterrupted capital movements, but has shut the borders to people desperately, to people outraged, to refugees and immigrants who she has created, confronting them as unnecessary and sacrificing. The crisis opened Pandora's box in Europe and erupted neo-nazi strands, racism and xenophobia. Fortunately, the Greek people, although seated, did not close a border, burned out camps, hosted and fed from their posture, opened their arms wide open and banners who wrote "good ones". Let the crusaders of racism not be concerned. We are not at risk from any malaria or from any contagious disease. And if something alters, not our national purity, but the purity of our conscience and our dignity, it is not the refugees, but the policies that give birth to the refugee. It is therefore a joy that the vote on this bill almost coincides with the first bell in the school, where it will strike this time for eighty thousand refugees. And their first lesson will be the right to have rights. Because education is not a one-way for social inclusion, but also an inalienable right for all. It is precisely from this spirit that the provisions on intercultural education, in which all schools, if any, can become intercultural, that is, workshops on moral and political feelings, solidarity and respect, fields of exercise and consolidation of the first article of the Declaration of Human Rights and Citizens: all people are born free and equal. In this light, the provisions on Greek-language education abroad could also be interpreted through the introduction of bilingual education. Unfortunately, the destiny of the immigrant was ghettoizing in the host country. The geographical distance that separated him from his country was as great as his historic, social, cultural distance from the host country. Therefore, bilingual education does not only contribute to familiarization and osmosis, to the historical memory and education of its homeland, but also makes a headline for transition and integration, opens up a dynamic perspective in the host country. We now come to the contested provision which has become glorious in the opposition krone of the 'excellence' liqueur, the one concerning private education. Ladies and gentlemen, in this place, all the movements of educational reform were and are synonymous with the battle for democracy. The struggles for education were identified with the struggles for democracy. Slide the sword of excellence. You've been privatizing this government for Balta in Education from the very first time. You have identified the regulation of an unconscious market, any regulatory framework must govern it, even constitutional requirements, with bolshevikism, North Korean and so on. And after you served with unparalleled zealously the canalarchs, who survived with loan and fierce, who had secured themselves with political support and communications exchanges on the back, not only of the Greek people, but also of their workers, for whom you now grieve, who had condemned them for years in black, black labor, now it is time for the school leaders. Servants of two masters, and canalarchs and school chiefs. And since misinformation and propaganda are well kept, this provision - we will say it for the most part - does not abolish private schools. It does not prohibit teachers' redundancies, and it does not probably abolish the additional activities of the private school. What it guarantees is the self-evident and constitutional foundation of the Greek state: the reinstatement of the responsibility of private schools in the state, the restoration of elementary state supervision in the provision of a public good by private entities, the justification for redundancies by institutions, the recording of additional activities in the relevant addresses. Will it, of course, ensure the establishment of a regulatory framework for private education that guarantees what? It will guarantee accountability for those who speculate against it and thus harm the educational good. Now, you don't have to look at the education system of the Bolsheviks. Suffice to look at even Article 11 of the Constitution of 1864 - since then, private training courses have been allowed - where "each has the right to introduce educational shops in line with the laws of the State". But it's enough for you to look back on Mr. Lloyd's face. In addition, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Education has established the framework within which the State will exercise supervision over private schools. It regulates the service status of teaching staff and considers that existing legislation has been imposed for many years, such as private schools, to follow the rules of public service. Bolsheviks government? Oh, no! As far as we remember, the government of Constantine Karamanlis with the Minister of Education George Rally. Unfortunately, however, the excellence you call for - and it is the great Friedman school who has been zealously implemented by Pinoche - calls for the universal context of influencing the public nature of education by transferring social resources to private educational structures, which in recent years - and because of the crisis - have been leaking students. The excellence you call for is the financial support from the State of parents who choose private education through the coup, the voucher or the tax exemption. Besides, students are the real customers of education, as Mr Mitsotakis stressed at the conference in New Democracy. And this, of course, is also a faithful copy of the founder of neoliberalism, Friedman, who once wrote that the educational coupon is a means of achieving a transition from a state system to a market system. But what happened in 2014, over your days, of coexistence? Apart from the demolition of public education by means of mergers of school units, underfunding, the abolition of the most popular specialities of technical education - you threw them north on private IEK - all the regulatory framework for the operation of private individuals has been levelled. You have paralyzed the Constitution by insisting on the rifting of the foreign factor and the troika, but basically for the service of the next schoolmasters. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] L.4254/2014 of Mr Arvanitopoulos completely deregulationd the framework for the operation of non-governmental training, making joint speculative enterprises, with the co-protestants, i.e. the circumvention of the independence of teachers, the reliability of the qualifications awarded and the release of redundancies, which have been done since then, without any justification. The culmination of this course was the transfer of supervision of private education from the Ministry of Education to the Ministry of Labour. And what did this lack of supervision mean by the Ministry of Education? The EPPC's audit, which started last spring, is extremely enlightening and showed the following: one-third of schools have filed incomplete dossiers on fire protection and initial building permit. Over 80% of schools were found with serious housing violations, not to mention others. Dozens of private schools change their name and are allegedly transferring their license to zero their debts to public funds and to workers. Graduates are forged and curriculum titles are published by opaque procedures. Schools run without permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u199	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u200	Mr President, I have also asked to use my dentistry. Is that the excellence you invoke? That's not exquisite. This is the excellence of immunity and illegality. It does not mean that you do and do not level out the role played by illustrious schoolmasters, schoolmasters - teachers who have created the highest education, incubators and trainers who have been expelled from the post-mortem state and from public education, nor do anyone want to abolish non-state education. What he claims is lawfully operating private schools. And because you call - and I end - Europe must not be a Europeanism, ladies and gentlemen. Let us not be Europeans in the austerity and poverty of neoliberalism, but not Europeans in the legitimate functioning of education structures. The UN Human Rights Council itself in June 2015 underlined that education is a public asset, bending the alarm in its rapid containering. Like also, good Europeanism is inconsistent with the distribution of books to photocopies December month on Ms Diamantopoulou's office. This year is the first year that twenty - four million books have been distributed since mid - August and schools will be opening up properly and without problems. The most important thing, however, is that it is not subject to any market law and has no price. It is the dignity of the educator, who will finally work in a protected institutional environment and will not be blackmailed, because a blackmailed teacher is a crime of deregulation in the field of education. Dignity has no honor. It is a value only, if you like, that gives and added value to education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u201	Thank you to Mrs Fotini Vakis, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Ioannis Delis has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u202	Mr President, I would like to make two legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u203	Do you want to, Minister? Are you going to announce them or are you just going to testify them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u204	Both.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u205	Mr. Delia, excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u206	I'll be brief. One legislative improvement is for Greek-language education. It's about the duration. Ten years is seven. The second relates to the known arrangement - the subject of earlier meetings - for teachers, lecturers of HEIs and TEIs' Application Teachers, that is, the question of the EDPS, which we are giving a solution. I'm filing them both.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u207	That's great! Mr Minister, at some point you may mention the amendments you are accepting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u208	If Mr. Delis doesn't have a problem, I can report them now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u209	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u210	Good. I think that makes it easier for the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u211	Thank you very much. We accept the following amendments: Mrs Theopevtou' s amendment concerning the transport of pupils from public schools, with a general number of 644 and a special 65. Mr. Thevaios, Michelis and Baxvanakis, with a general number of 647 and a special number 68, concerning the Institute of Criminal Education. The amendment with a general number of 648 and a special number of 69 by Mr Gavrovlos, Mrs Vaki and Mrs Jufi, concerning the appointment of retired teachers of HEIs. We are also accepting the amendment, with a general number of 649 and a special 70, which concerns the inclusion of permanent staff or employees with employment for an indefinite period of time in EIB posts. The amendment with a general number of 650 and a special number 71 by Mr Loverdou and Mr Konstantopoulou, which deals with convicting decisions by members of the IGC - and this is accepted - is Amendment No 651 and Amendment No 72 by Mrs Theopevettos on the renewal of the private-law contracts for a fixed period in the "Family and Professional Life Harmonization Programme". She's accepted too. These are the amendments that we are accepting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u212	Thank you very much, Minister. Here, Mr. Delis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u213	I will certainly also need the time of denunciation, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u214	With an economy, shortcut, we'll give you more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u215	I'll do my best. Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, one could say that today's bill adds another link to the chain of reactionary restructuring in education between the many, of course, links that this government adds to all areas. For this reason, this bill is also moving in the logic of cuts, the constant reduction in the state's social costs, in order to save a lot of hot money for capitalist development, oil, that is, the capitalist profitability machine, which always works with fuel. But let us see the bill and the arguments accompanying it a little closer. 'We evaluate the conclusions of the dialogue', the Minister told us yesterday. We had no doubt, Minister, that the dialogue you have had would be, in addition to a disorientation movement and a lever for the implementation of all the reactionary educational measures that are coming and described in the third memorandum, where there is an explicit reference to education for the first time and where very specific objectives are set, of course, the axis of government policy in education. So, in this bill, not only do you maintain, but you are even more strengthening in Greek language education the action of private institutions, institutions, the church - which specifically considers it a feud - of various NGOs, giving them even the right to set up a private school. In short, the bill for multilingual Greek education abroad and despite the ministerial declarations does not justify the slightest optimism for it and, in fact, at a time when Greek immigrants abroad have increased sharply. But the tone in the Minister's speech, as in most of the Members of the government, was given by the well-advertised regulation that makes schoolchildren justify the redundancies of their teachers. It's hard for them! And this is about like the alpha and the omega of regulating the working jungle, even as a Bolshevikism, according to the convenient for the SYRIZA rhetoric of the New Democracy. Here - and in order to stop this disgraceful chatter in this House about bolshevikism in private education - we want to inform the House that private education has been nonexistent and legally banned in the Soviet Union, and it is known that its purely public and free education has reached such levels of quality that, even today, they cannot even imagine the most developed capitalist countries, let alone provide them. So this arrangement was chosen by Mr. Friend to become the zipper who will hide the strategic syriza's syriza partnership with New Democracy and the other urban parties in education. This setting you chose in here to set up another disorientated controversy kit, with a wide dividing line. But that is not the real dividing line, Minister. It's another one. It is the position that divides from one side the JRC's position on purely public and free education, and on the other hand the position of all of you, that is, all the other parties, that you accept the coexistence of private and public education and that always becomes fatal for the latter. There is, of course, a distinction between the social good and the merchandise. Because a social asset in a society or it will be such or it will be a commodity. In capitalism there are no social goods. It is known that there are only goods. It is a great deal for the government, we think, to celebrate this regulation when it actually leaves the status of a farce created in it over the past few years, with schoolchildren having a wealth of antique armoury, which the current government also maintains and strengthens. Karadokouin, of course, to make use of changes in public education as well, for example, the reduction in the school timetable, for new redundancies, which will also be justified. That is why private education workers also want to take away Mr. Philly's 'cococaine' and his so-called confrontation with the New Democracy and the schoolmasters. And then they will see that the entire course of the government on the issue of private education, from the Balta Plan to its recent version a few months ago and until today's regulation, is nothing but a continuous adaptation to the positions and demands of employers. And then, of course, they will realize that the only real guarantee for them and their rights is only their own organization and struggle through a powerful class movement in their space. The Minister referred once again to the issue of special treatment, on the basis of the relevant amendment to the bill. One provision - our rapporteur, as well as all about the bill - has been mentioned, which actually leads to special treatment for many years back, when there was no appropriate scientific staff and the needs of special education for educational staff were dealt with by the guilty. But now, where is this staff crushed between unemployment and temporary work, why the regulation? First of all, since the Minister has referred to promises to establish part-sessions - an institution, we remind him that he has taken care to destabilise themselves by altering their character - and to thousands of temporary substitutes always - and of course when they are to be made - he has again argued about the unfamiliar inclusion of the strategy, namely, the European Union, which, in the name of the demobilisation of the special education, aims to throw away all children with all kinds of disability in the ranks of the general schools. But that is not a scientific view. It is a political option that aims to relieve the state and their budgets of the costly obligation to meet the needs of these children and their families with special schools and adequate scientific support. It is a strategic direction for special education, which leads it directly to the hands of individuals. Here, of course, we must say - we need clarification - that no one can disagree with the fact that, when all the reasons for the smooth integration into the general school of children with disabilities are met, that is, of course, what has to be done. It is a different thing, however, that this choice should be generalised, which, in fact, leads exactly where it denounces, that is, to ghettoize. This is the government plan in special education, with the Euro-Union patent of inclusion, a plan for a substantial dismantling of the special treatment. And that goes on by the government, with individual regulations that bring to all sorts of bills, in a reality in the specific treatment that is already tragic: Structures and special schools are very little in primary and secondary, which are delaying opening up. And when they open, they don't have the necessary staff. And the staff they've got are recycled every year. The majority of them shall be alternates. And, of course, families, parents go up their own Golgotha and keep putting their hand deeper and deeper into their pocket. Unfortunately, this amendment does not give an answer or a positive one, because the overall tragic situation in special education remains. Finally, we heard the position of the Minister of Education who spoke about returning to normality, in vain attempting to delight the reality in education, without omiting, of course, yesterday, to share other promises, for example for appointments from 2017 and when, of course, the financial conditions allow it. But this is a reality that kneels the people's families into trying to educate their children, after they put their hands deeper and deeper into the pocket for a good that is becoming more expensive and more and more degraded and shallow. It is enough for one to take a single look at the contents of books and school, despite the esteemed and heroic attempts by teachers to teach letters to children. At some point we should also talk about the content of education. Schools open in a few days and do not only need students and books, not to talk about unacceptable, as I said, content them, confusing the students' minds with the pulp of rotten urban ideology. They need all their teachers from the first day of their operation. They'll have them? Rather not, as it seems from your moves and despite the fact that you did what you were doing in your hand to reduce the number of necessary recruitments in a thousand ways, we say. And we will relive the phenomenon of successive recruitment of deputys, which even arrives until spring. In fact, the Minister told us yesterday that you stopped the banging of state spending on education. What does that mean? When did you stop her? When you reached the bottom? Because that is what the empty schools funds, which do not even have the basics for their operation, the huge shortages of logistics and inappropriate buildings, have witnessed. The evidence of the pressure on parents, in many respects, that they themselves should give money to meet basic needs for the operation of schools, which otherwise is an obligation for the state to meet them. Is that the prick you stopped? Are you proud of the freezing of state spending on Education and in the next few years and of the "buffalo" of the cutter above? From the cutter, however, you did not exclude health and education. The Public Investment Programme has excluded the funding of large-scale companies. The classicity of your policy cannot be hidden either in hollow words or in proclamations of progressive old cutting that arrives to praise - we live this too - up to the Karamanlis period. Your policy in education does not respond to the current educational needs of popular families. He's undermining them. The need for an organized class movement is also uncertain for education. The JRC's recent proposal for a single 12-year-old school is the weapon and flag of this movement, which is why it has to get old features. I want to say a word about the coupons, and I will end, because we are listening to Mr. Friend and the Ministry's leadership to give out philosophers for the coupons and vouchers. We have also heard the parliamentary representative. I would like to remind you here that exactly these coupons are being implemented at the children's stations by your own government. I didn't hear you complain about that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Mr. Delis. We shall now proceed to the list of speakers. Mr George Aristotle, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the Greek-language and intercultural education bill, while there is still some time until the start of the new school year. As they all show, it will be the first year after many years when the new school period will begin without serious voids and arrhythmies that have troubled the educational community, students, teachers and parents for years, and have disturbed the regularity of school life by gaining some dimensions of self - astonishing prophecy every year at this time. It is therefore the first year that, with painful efforts and with the return to their teaching duties, more and more seconded to other educational institutions and services, there is optimism for a new beginning away from what has been known to all of us in the past. Ladies and gentlemen, Greek-language education abroad in the modernised world of multiculturalism and the stimulus of different ways and lifestyles is a vehicle for the promotion and dissemination of Greek culture and values in other societies, but also a means for maintaining the contact of Greeks abroad with Greek education. At the same time, the promotion of bilingual schools serves the absolutely practical objective of equal access for pupils to higher education departments both in our host country and in our country. In the modern world of cross-referenced civilizations and multiple cultural influences, if you are fearfully operated, if you are entangled in the narrow limits of racial, ethnic, religious origin and your misconceived cultural idiosyncrasy, you are doomed to crush. You don't serve your country, her education and her culture, hiding and arming to disguise invaders and attackers. Hellenism does not have to be afraid of its osmosis and its well-intentioned confrontation with other cultures. It has to be afraid only of the unscrupulous nationalist and racist cries that once again have been heard in this Chamber and in the Committee on Morphic Affairs, but also in the public sphere. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that apart from the various provisions in many articles, the numbering of articles shows one fact and is not randomly semantic. The first and last article refer to education for immigrants. The first concerns immigrants, Greeks of dispersion in their host countries and the last of the training of immigrants and refugees hosted in our country. I note this because it is heard by the parties who do not vote for the last article, calling for a number of pretexts for their refusal to vote, because the Minister is assigned to set up structures and define the function of training for refugees. I oppose the cries of the nationalists and racists of the Golden Dawn, who do not convince anyone by claiming that for Greeks the host countries should take care of their education, but we here should not do the same for refugees. I welcome the preparations for their preparation in September for their structures, staffing and programme of study, and I can confirm this, from my own region, for the planning that is being carried out. At the same time, I should like to point out that resources have been provided for the appointment of teachers and the movement of pupils. I would also like to say a few words about the issue on which there has also been substantial controversy in the Committee on Morphic Affairs and here in plenary and not only. It is Article 28 and it refers to private education. Here the outbreaks of criticism took place at a substantial point, which refers to the undoubted dismissals of teachers introduced by Arvanitopoulos and which must now be adequately justified, and this will be done by relevant service councils and at security stages for the validity of the decision. The voices that there is a attack on private schools or nurseries because the workers' employment relations must be safeguarded and workers must be insured, the activities beyond teaching work, afternoons and weekends, the obligations and rights of teachers in private education and in training, the voices being declared for protecting the world of work show what else, gentlemen of the New Democracy? You are verifying your neoliberal logic. The last article to which I should like to refer is Article 34, which refers to regulations on vocational training. I have thirty years in vocational training. I have lived close to all the policies pursued that led to the abandonment and degradation of technical education in our country. Easily a variety of changes in the multipath TE have been tested over the past twenty years. TELs and multi-sectorals were abolished, without prior evaluation of their implementation, in order to retrospectively establish that they were the most reliable types of schools in technical training. The TEIs - TEIs are established in 1998, which are abolished in 2006, and then the ESDP - ESDPs are established from which in 2012-2013 sectors are abolished and are made available to two and a half thousand teachers from technical education. L.4386/2016 establishes the only type of TEU, ESA, with a new structure. In the first class with a general education course for guidance and specializations, in the second class select field from nine selection areas, in the third class from thirty-six specialties, after High School in the class of apprenticeships and finally access to higher education for students in the PESA. Article 34 regulates, together with the combination - transport of sectors which are made and made fifty such changes throughout the country, teachers who are involved in these sectors are also transferred their organic posts by transfer and the senior position in the PESA in the previous placement. This ensures the smooth operation of schools and teachers. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill was discussed in detail before plenary in Parliament's Committee on Culture. I cannot forget the first day of the debate, but today it came back, when the spokesman of the New Democracy, neglecting the fact that for fifteen years the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK or the governments did nothing about the Greek-language school of Munich, blamed with great ease, not to say with courage, the government, which, in nine months' time, has managed to implement a serious part of the infrastructure of this school and is struggling with a serious chance of having a happy end in this matter. I must say, however, that at some point the shocks which have attacked certain issues have led me to hope that we would even leave back in the past the recent unnecessarily opposition cries. Who does not remember the saliva that you raised last May about the recruitment of alternates and the kindergartens in the debate of the bill: 'Regions on research and other provisions'? I hoped, therefore, that this time, with the exception of the extreme right, the forces of the democratic arch would find common places, beyond ideologies, on issues such as the training of refugees on the basis of humanitarian principles and values. But once again, ladies and gentlemen, you have been on the wrong side. But you will have other opportunities, because we are going with a clear ideological orientation, but also with openness to the prospect of converging and consensus with the forces of democratic opposition, especially on issues as sensitive as education.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u218	Mr Spyridon-Adonis Georgiadis has the floor. Mr Fortsakis, Mr Papachristopoulos and Mrs Georgopoulos, Mr Baxvanakis, Mr Antoniadis, etc. will follow. Here you go, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u219	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, yesterday in your attempt to defend this great mistake you make in the matter of private schools, you referred to a view expressed by the late Paul Bakoyannis in 1976. I wonder, Minister, since 1976, how do you think the only real problem that is needed to regulate the education of Greek children has been the regulation that you are bringing to the Greek Parliament today? Would it not be worth it, ladies and gentlemen, to have a real debate about what has happened over the last 40 years in the education of the Greeks? Do you think it is accidental, Mr. Philly, that these are currently following thousands of our fellow citizens, Mr. Artemis Sourras, who promises them to pay tax credits, by taking money from the space technology of God Apollo that he sold to the Americans? Thousands of people follow them. Don't you think this is about the level of education in our country? In the last forty years, ladies and gentlemen, after the Minister put it, he went down, did not go up and the multiple educational reforms were disastrous, with the main ones that took place in the 1980s from PASOK. If you really want to have a debate about what happened between 1976 and 1976, then we can have the real debate on how our children arrived, for example, from the school books that they once had - thirty years ago - in the elementary school from which they learned Greek from the poems of Palama or Drosine, today learn Greek from the instructions for using a cafeteria in the same class. These are the big issues we need to discuss. But let's go to this one. SYRIZA's colleagues have had a little bit of a class discussion. Approximately you present those who are in private schools as elites and that you legislate for the equation of public and private schools to be fair. Minister, I am very impressed by this type of criticism from SYRIZA if we take into account that Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras has chosen a private school to take his children. And I wonder, Mr. Friend, do you understand exactly what the Constitution says that you invoke? The Constitution of course says about the state's obligation to give public education free of charge and gives it as far as it can. At the same time, however, it also reserves the right to private education. In other words, it entitles parents to choose. The Constitution gave Mr Alexis Tsipras the choice for his own children to take them to private school. You asked him before you legislated, why did he choose a private school and not a public school? Why did Mr. Tsipras choose the Hill School for himself and did not choose one of your own schools from what you command? Immediately, at least because you're supervising everything. So what are you doing? You are actually coming here and you are legally abolishing the right of parents to choose. That's what you're doing. Because when you level private schools with public schools, it's like telling parents 'you'll necessarily go where I tell you.' And he tried to escape you - to prove that's what you're doing - a small point. What? That they could do language training, that is, strengthening teaching, private schools outside the timeline, understand it last night and bring the amendment to you if anything were to escape you and they are not completely leveled, not exactly the same. And take care of the best. You had the courage to substantiate this view of levelling into the fact that excellence creates inequality. You know, Minister, since you are the Minister of Education, I recommend that you read the Isocratic speech. I am sure that my colleague, Mr Pelogrinis, has read him very well and knows him. Mr. Peglerin, I'm telling you, because Mr. Friends may not know the text. I'm not saying that to hurt him. I call it parentheses. He says Isokrates: we have grown up in the past - he looks to see why he was in decline in his time - because we had built a democracy based on parity. But what is the equivalency? In equivalent equivalency. Not to do them all the same, but give everyone what he deserves. That's what excellence does, Mr. Philly. Read some Isocrats. You're Minister of Education! You should know, Mr Papachristopoulos, that the regulation - because I see that you are crying in the channels for workers - which you will be voting on shortly for private schools will bring three thousand redundancies. You'll vote for Papachristopoulos and the rest of us and three thousand people will lose their jobs. And don't laugh at all, Mr. Comrade. They won't lose their job, only the teachers. The cleaners will lose their jobs, the guards will lose their jobs, all those who work overtime and are extra jobs in private schools. Mr. Friend in his obsession to level everything out is indifferent to these people. Do you care the same? Congratulations! But at least don't cry on the channels. And it comes, Minister, and the other amendment on the return of eternal students. That's another one. Coming here, a friend of mine calls me and tells me that Mr. Friends has legislated for himself. Is that true, Mr Philly, that this amendment will not be available on the Internet? Will Mr. Friends, with this amendment, be able to re-elect the Athens School of Law? Do you think of yourself? Because it's strange in a parliament that the Minister legislates for himself. I'm not saying he's doing it. I say what is written today on all blogs. Answer it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u220	I'm so humiliated now!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u221	Listen, sir. You represent a party that the Prime Minister told you does not pay HISPIA as an act of resistance and we are now all paying HISPIA. The word of Syrizai's mouthlessness will never be heard again. Understood? You're not gonna say that word again. You and your party in the next 50 years will not say that word again. You've been humiliated worse than everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u222	I'm telling you straight away!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u223	I'm coming back. You brought an amendment to eternal students. Why? What's the point? Here the House, with a huge majority, tried to put a class in the universities and you come and you blow it up. What's the reason you're doing this? And to close, I regret that Mrs. Anagnostopoulos is missing. She told us in an interview, trying to justify the occupation of the University of Thessaloniki by the hoodmen a month ago, Minister, that 40,000 were the damages and will be paid for by the Ministry of Education. What are you telling us? You're cutting off the ESS of people, you're sending the URBAN that you're going to take down and throw away the forty-thousands in the universities to help your hoodier friends? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. And to close. I wonder what Mrs Anagnostopoulou has to say now, which said that she prefers hoodmen from jihadists and from what is happening in Europe. Well, the position is unspeakable. What does it have to say now that your friends beat the Trojan Commander in this way the other day? Do you like it, Mr. Peglerin, - are you also a member of the Government - this Greece you have built? Is that what you taught us at the University? To beat the commander of Railways to the streets when he does his job and sit around looking at them as government? Mr President, Minister, we want answers to these issues. And you know it and sound good. The New Democracy will change that law. The New Democracy will defend parents' right to choice. And our goal will not be to take the private schools down. But our aim will be to get public schools up to get everyone better education. That will be the goal of our government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u224	Just quiet down, please. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u225	I would not like to monitor the personal nature of Mr Georgiadis' attacks. Simply confirms a political controversy inability and confirms the New Democracy's choice to follow the tactics of the murder of characters, targeting, focusing, attacking, shaping and not discussing politically. However, the issues which have been raised - and I leave the cheap demagogy, I will focus on the substance - are important. The issue of regulation for students, who will be able to re-register, concerns active students. They are the students, who for two consecutive six months for any reason have not gone to register - I repeat that they are active, have not been deleted - and have been given the opportunity to register in their semester. So one thing I'm saying is that we don't have any impressions. Secondly, and forgive me for the speech: look, all right, and the representative of the Golden Dawn yesterday with the Isokrates taught us a lesson. It's the truth. I didn't say you'd come to an agreement. But I would like to tell you that the way in which you referred to the Isocrat on isotope in value does not refer to democracy, but refers to aristocracy. Equality is for all citizens, we have found out at least after the French revolution. There is no vote of honor, there is no vote of ad valorem, as you say. The vote of the amphetamine and the educated, the poor and the rich, the deleted student, the eternal student or the failure to enter the university is of the same value. This is the value of democracy. But you have chosen, I am afraid - I cannot at this time prove it - by abuse once again an ancient text, is of equal value. It's a perfect isotope and a dash. This is democracy. And from that I come to your next point of view. You keep talking about the aristocratics. Of course there must be a tendency to improve and personal and collective in society, alas. But when you talk about the excellent ones, do we have to see this policy that you have implemented in recent years and in other countries have helped to make the overall progress, to upgrade the educational level, to upgrade the general social and labour situation? There are investigations in both Greece and Europe, which say documentary - and it is not Syrian investigations, as you will be prepared to tell us - that in the years of propaganda of excellence in Greece there is a deepening of social contradictions. PISA is a European way of measuring certain educational opportunities. There in the PISA, if you see it, it is confirmed that we have a huge increase in the success in higher education of children from families with educational level and prosperousness and a reduction in the effort to enter higher education in children from educational and social layers lower. Are you going to tell me, is it because of excellence? I am not saying excellence, I say the policies it attempts to overshadow the theorem of excellence. That is why I also said in my first speech that the main issue is not talking to each other with surnames, with labels, with slogans, but with the essence. So when we as a government upgrade the whole of public education in line with the international direction and perspective, that is not bad, no one imposes on us, we open our eyes. We do not want there to be a paradox in Greece for the universities, which are incomprehensible, but we see how they have now reached the end of their dynamics. So we want to change this way of accessing universities. We want to give authority to school. There to deliver the process of entering higher education, at school, and not at school. We want teachers and school and parent and child to have confidence in education. That is why all the debate we are having and will do about changing the way in which we enter universities precisely inclines, that is to say, the upgrading of the High School and, above all, the last two classes, in a direction of deepening up to the contents that children will choose. And, at the same time, the previous classes should be a programme with a range of cognitive objects, what we are saying is an improvement in the whole of circular education. That's our target. The Greek citizens are listening. We have a reform agenda, which is in favour of everyone rather than the few. I said it earlier. We're not looking to make slices of excellence and throw the great majority in Cavalas. If there was a Time, because this is also questioned historically, as you know, but for example I say it. That's our choice. That's why all the changes do not start again with a fuss at the university, as it was in old times, but start underneath the full day's kindergarten, which you told us we're going to shut down and have fewer infants and pre-natals, because of subnatality this year, more kindergartens. The evidence is clear and I can also communicate it to the House. With fewer infants and pre-schools - and thankfully we brought the pre-schools with a policy that we exploited in the public pre-school system - we have more kindergartens this year. That's the reality. You told us that we were closing this whole day - another lie - and you were terrorizing the world. So the children in the whole day are as much as last year and the departments are as much last year. Nothing's closed. You also told us that we wanted to break up the primary school. The primary school will now not be two speeds: it will be a guy for all children and in the last part of Greece. Four-seat schools will have the same program, with new cognitive objects, from the first foreign language class, from the first class of informatics. It'll be the same program everywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u226	And how do you save nine and a half thousand teachers, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u227	Savings have to do with the issue of better allocation of staff and the use of the opportunities available.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u228	Reducing hours and cognitive objects.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u229	We don't save nine and a half thousand. Last year we got, as you remember, twenty - three thousand alternates, and this year we get twenty thousand eight hundred. That's the difference. And schools will work, even if there are triples, either political or de-unionist. I stress this because it is not a question of the government, it is about society. On the 12th day of the month children who will sanctify not to make their cross, because the school is broken, but say, "Wonder, our school works!"
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u230	Be more specific, Minister. Don't expel slanders. When you say "trilling policies", what do you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u231	So - I would like to continue and finish, because I abuse intervention - I would like to tell you that all the measures we take are not measures to save staff and therefore to create artificial surpluses for teachers. Not at all. I would remind you that before SYRIZA you had received eighteen thousand teachers with a massive outflow of retired people. Only eighteen thousand alternates had been taken. We get twenty thousand eight hundred this year, with a minimum pension of about a thousand teachers. We do not go to the cotourou, nor throw away the Greek people's money, nor do we do we say that we do not understand what it means to fight and to be interested in public education. This is our term, this is our choice, to upgrade public school. And we do it, not just for ideological reasons - that is second - for accountability to society. A society which, in your own policy, has collapsed and we must rectify it. And the school will prove to be a lever for the recovery of the economy and society. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Finally, I want to say this. I have heard from Mr Harakopoulos and from you that we are adopting the school of minor effort, to say it as it used to be. Listen, gentlemen of the New Democracy. When you say'mindly effort', what do you mean exactly? That the kids will read less? That we'll have fewer tests? That they're getting less stressful? That they'd have a relationship of devaluation in their school consciences, why does it corner them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u232	Free access to the reduced status of HSY.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u233	One-one. So the reduction in working hours is not a minor attempt. We understand. It recommends compliance with an educational concept that it considers the school should have cognitive objects - it chooses them - to appoint teachers in the teaching of cognitive objects and not the school to be just a mechanism for producing incomes. That's another school job. The school does not exist to nominate each year permanent or substitutes. There is to appoint as many as it needs to serve a specific educational plan for children. Unemployment is the job of other ministries and other politicians. We had about a hundred thousands of candidates this year for the seats of substitutes and wages. No matter how much we get, this need for people to work would not be met. Education is available for education and for the child. We will not put on programs supposedly to gather people, recruit people at the expense of education and the mental peace of the children. And I'll be done. Upgrade primary and high school. We've reduced our hours. Yes, sir. Three hours a week. Is that a school downgrade? So, seven hours three, if they get two, they downgrade high school? Of course not! That's hypocrisy. What else do we do? Remove the quarters and go in quadrants. We are abolishing the twelve and fourteen lessons at the end of the year, which are irrelevant - it is just to say that school operates on the basis of the examinations alone - and we do four. And during the year we give the teacher the opportunity to do a four-month examination, but he can also do a lot of hourly tests and, above all, get used to the development of synthetic work by young children. Because while our children go to the foreign universities and everything fits, where they have a big problem, a lameness, it is in the inability to process synthetics. And we want to upgrade the school. And that's why we're giving this battle, not to be good to the kids. Surely our conception is not the concept of insurmountable competition. Isn't the perception of shaping many classes of schools through the coupons where he chooses - freedom of choice called this? - the parent at which school his child will go, public or private, and he'll also get a pocket in the month, from the state. This is a dissolution of the education system in Greece! It's not a right to choose school. Say it clean. Mr. Fortsakis has written it as a choice for this thing, I heard it from Mr. Vorides yesterday. Slowly, it seems that the New Democracy attaches to this right of choice, the 'false' right of choice which is, I repeat, a bomb on the foundations of public education. Because the public school in the 20th century is the neighborhood school where the child goes. And we must ensure this by upgrading the operation of the neighborhood school and not by forming many speeded schools which then lead to many student speeds, teachers and ultimately to incontinuous social competition within the school. We want an effort at school, but we want an effort with co-operation, with democracy, in parity. What'd you call her? Equality? Meaning? I understand that when you talk about dignity, you don't talk about democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u234	Mr President, please give me the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u235	No, of course not.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u236	Give me the floor for a minute to explain the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u237	No, of course I did. There's no way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u238	Mr President, I am entitled by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u239	With no rules, you're entitled to nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u240	Mr President, give me the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u241	Of course not. You referred personally to Mr. Friend. Answer it, but you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u242	Mr President, I am entitled to a minute to explain what the staff consist of.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u243	What personal? You say the word personal? Did you hear your name?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u244	Give me a minute to explain it. That's the rule. You'll see if you give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u245	I'll just give you a minute. If you get away from this, I'll interrupt you. You have the reason to see where the staff is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u246	Mr. Philis, referring to my speech, Mr. President, referred to the Isocrates by saying, "And the representative of the Golden Dawn yesterday spoke of the Isocrat..."
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u247	What's the problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u248	He wanted to try and connect my own speech to the representative of the Golden Dawn. Even at the end, he referred to the issue of dignity to me. So you'll give me a minute to explain it...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u249	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u250	You will give me a minute to explain, because it will be like hovering this in the Chamber and it is deeply offensive. Please, Mr President, give me a minute! I need a minute! We're wasting time for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u251	No, you explained it. It considers that there is no staff. The word "Isocrat"...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u252	You let the Minister speak for 15 minutes, and now you're telling me you won't give me a minute? And you're playing democrat? It's the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u253	Whether I play it or not a democrat, people will judge it. Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u254	I'd like to be a democrat president. The Minister spoke 15 minutes, did you get a minute? Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u255	Mr. Fortsakis, is there a problem for Mr. Papachristopoulos to speak because he waited?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u256	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u257	Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to remind you that the plenary is not a arena. We can coexist with differences, hard confrontation, hard opposition, but with decency. I have to say to myself that I will take care, because sometimes we all get away from this, to keep it. I would like to begin and remind you that this is not the first time that Apostle Kaklamanis, the old President of the Parliament, and at a controversial period of education had been differentiated from his party. I would like to remind you of a clear night where the New Democracy and the PASOK - the Bureau was then Mr Tragakis - cleaned up with the infidelity of the bankers. That night in a strange way Papadimoulis screamed, the Independent Greeks and SYRIZA and DIMAR and Apostle Kaklamanis left the Hall. I say this because it is worth reading exactly what this old parliamentarian says about the draft law proposed by the Minister of Education. I do not want to talk about it now, just to mention it. I would also like, ladies and gentlemen, to say: I would like you to remember a few names, which have ended with brilliant universities, such as Mr Solana, who was a moderate politician but has always had major positions in the system. I would like to remind you that Barozoz recently - and he is even asked by the Portuguese to give back his pension - he has been raped, after he has made his term as President of the European Union, to work on 'GOLDMAN SACHS'. I would like to remind you that Schroeder, and he has finished very strong universities, is an official at GAS PRO. I'll remind you that Blair, Prime Minister, was also at great universities and with great education. Eddie Rama, counselor, or something like that, confessed - and this is in honor - the lie he said and made the invasion of Iraq along with son Bush. I could mention other names, like Mr Georgiou, who happened to be a member of the International Monetary Fund and President of ELSTAT for a number of months which is forbidden. They are the well-known children of the system, who are really brilliant universities, perhaps within a hundred or so better, the first ones, what Mr. Friends obviously doesn't have in mind, and I want to confront him to say this: some time Carolinska - for those who know, it's not in the first hundred universities of the world - is a university that established the social economy, the trend that takes flesh and bones, and I think it's how the Ministry of Education's bill is going right now. For those who do not remember, Sweden at that time and with Erlander and Ulland Palme was a reference point for the whole planet, especially for the terrible social state it had, for justice, for the rules on the market - real rules, where 'VOLVO', 'SAAB', 'ERICKSON', with the taxes imposed on them almost cleaned up health, education, welfare, solidarity and much more. I am saying this because I believe that today we have another conception in front of us. Two worlds conflict. I don't want to be alone. There is the market on the one hand and society on the other. What market rules have led to, and the enlarging representatives of which are too many Members from New Democracy - with arguments, I am not saying. I told you, we can disagree with decency - we've seen it. I will say it again for once, in the latest OXFAM poll, about where this market culture leads, it emerged that sixty-two tycoons have so many assets as the poorest three and a half billion on the planet. I respect the JRC. It is one of the first to mention it and I have no hesitation to mention it. What do I mean? Something needs to be changed. This reality is no longer going. A country, justice, the small country, is bankrupt. The ever-repeated lie that in a year and a half the government of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks went bankrupt the country no one believes it. No one can believe it anymore. They know who went bankrupt. I do not want to refer to examples at the moment. I thought and believe that education might be the greatest, most powerful lever - some colleagues have said it - for democracy. It's a democratic step. I really do not want to add anything to what the Minister said, which I really honour. It was touching the outburst of the Minister of Education, who has heard the thousands of millions. We all make mistakes. It's not just the one who does nothing. What kind of education are we fighting for? The education of the kitchen at the midday shows, the lifestyle, what Zouraris says? We hear a lot of things about animals, etc. Thousands of graduates around the world are after Pokemon. No matter how laughing, it's true. Once I remember, we as young students competed who read "Reporting to Greco", Kazantzakis' last book or who had read Gate's "Elections". Today, have you seen the competition of these children, this society, of the education they receive? Fortunately, not everyone is the same and fortunately that for the first time there is a section. I don't know what form it will take, Minister, the subject of entering the highest intellectual institutions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I must have some time. I am the only parliamentary representative I did not speak yesterday, Mr President. I don't know how much time I have. I don't want to eat time from anyone. I don't know how much time I still have, but I'm the only parliamentarian who never spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u259	You're not the only one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u260	And maybe you, okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u261	Mrs. Vaki didn't speak either.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u262	Let me tell you, yesterday some Members of Parliament also took part in six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u263	If you tell me exactly the time, I'll keep it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u264	If you're around fourteen minutes, no, under fourteen, he'll be fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u265	And less. Unfortunately, we are living today. It's a new incision, and I think there'll be some mistakes. I believe that the Minister has already taken note of it, that the children who went and studied, say Volos and Macedonia, have an inalienable right to take precedence in schools for children with disabilities. I would like to believe - the Minister has already promised - that this will be respected and that these people will be given priority. It's about two thousand two hundred and not just for this year or for time, but forever, because I really know them in person and make terrible sacrifices. As far as Article 28 is concerned, however, which I have heard a great deal about, I do not hide from you that I am in favour of private initiative. What private initiative? By rules. If one searches in private schools, one will discover too many sins. It is not just the terrible private universities that make the Olads, them, and go by saying, people who blindly serve a system, which is just the scratch of a system for some tycoons and indifference for the world. They are the ones who are looking to save today. It's for the private initiative. It's not the bill that's going down. Let's be good-for-nothing. He's putting order, and he's doing well. And there we could discuss where we need to get in more and less. In no case, however, do I think that this bill is in the wrong direction and it is a small revolution for me. And it was nice to see this bill, because it really puts a new order in the chamber of democracy. Because that means education. I don't know if Nikos Friend can make it. However, I can see that the way this is handled is in the right direction. I'm not taking any more time. I just want to remind you - and to end - that, as Calvos said, freedom wants virtue and boldness. I want to paraphrase this and say that democracy wants virtue and courage. And it's a step of democracy what the Minister of Education does. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u266	Thank you to Mr Papachristopoulos and to the economy of time. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Theodoros Fortsakis, has the floor. Mr Leventis gave us his position kindly. Mr Fortsakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be up-to-date, because time is minimal. Minister, I was particularly pleased when I first saw the bill in consultation, because I said: 'Finally, for the first time, a draft law which clearly refers to education goes out into consultation'. I thought that for the first time the Rules of Parliament and the Constitution are respected. However, I was disproved because, as you know, the rain of amendments has come, which has changed the image of the bill slowly and has shifted the centre of interest of the bill from its main theme to issues differently. In all the media, this bill refers not to the bill of the subject, which has concerned you, but to the bill, which effectively abolishes private education. It was forgotten that the question of private education should be included in the public consultation. The culmination, however, is that in addition to the express procedure in the committee responsible, we have also had arrangements, such as for special treatment - important regulation - at the end of the committee's meetings. Even now, as we have all seen, we have had rain of amendments in the government's well-known practice. There is therefore no cohesion for this bill, and its disparity diminishes the contents of individual regulations. Thus, extremely critical issues of Greek-language education, intercultural education of immigrants, special treatment, unfortunately, go to a second plan. I would like to make two very brief remarks on Mr - it is assumed - the subject of the bill, the reform of Greek-language education. It is euphemistically a reform. There's no vision. There's no pre-process. There's no design. Finally, the substance is missing. The existing changes are changing without prior evaluation of the educational units abroad, without a thorough evaluation of the application of the existing legislative framework, without a comprehensive presentation of the positions of the family. It is true that the explanatory statement only has six pages. Thus, we are experimenting on the issues of Greek-language education abroad, while Greeks are proliferating dramatically. For the two main axes of the bill, I will just say a few words. The first is in terms of our authority for foreign affairs that the Government does not seem to have understood the concept of the economic crisis. Otherwise, I do not understand why it restricts the secondments of teachers abroad without a bonus and alters the way in which school units are staffed. Who's gonna pay for all this, Minister? Are we forgetting that we are at this time unable to pay operating expenses and pay the necessary funds in time for the operation of these schools? And do we forget that often the same trainers are paid too long? So what are we looking for? Are we trying to have communal artifacts? As for the extreme conversion of all school units abroad into bilinguals, I would like to note that, unfortunately, this regulation is also very rough. There's been no advance. Homogeneity is concerned and emphasises that bilingual school is not a panacea, especially when a series of earlier measures have not been taken. Of course, bilingual school must be a priority, but it cannot be imposed in this way. Once again we retreat into the communication fireworks. I would now like to turn to the issue - the famous and much-discussed - of private education. Unfortunately, I have received mud, Mr Minister, from you and from the trade unionists, for the positions I have supported. I'm not going to go into a personal confrontation process. But I will tell you that, unfortunately, the way the Ministry is going is completely disastrous for private education. We want and recognise that education is a good that needs special protection. It's not supermarket education. I myself, too, have said - and I say it again - that no teacher should be fired without any reason. There is another reason for this and it is subject to the judgement of the Ministry of Education's Committee, which is controlled by trade unionists. We will not turn private schools teachers into civil servants, because they are two different categories and we must differently handle them. So that must be a conscience. Protection of teachers, yes. Control large to keep legality in those private schools that do not comply with it, yes. Penalties where legality is not respected, yes. But no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No way, no! Can there be a private school that does not have the right to have lessons that will teach them as he thinks they are beyond the Ministry's mandatory? Then why would the kids go to private schools? I would like to tell you, Minister, that instead of accusing the New Democracy and me of supporting schoolgirls, you'd rather be blamed for yourself because you are the best propaganda for private schoolgirls. Because with what you're doing in public education, which you've completely dismantled and decimated, everyone would have preferred to go to the private after all. You're talking about vouchers. I will tell you this: I wish we were giving all the Greeks coupons, since we had cost the public school how much it costs and everyone choosing with money in the hand if it would go to the public to give them or to the private. Then we would see whether the people you support would have the preference of the citizens or not. If you did this, you would see that they would emptied public schools, unfortunately, because the deterioration continues every day. The same and worse things have been done with foreign language schools. You come and say that during the Christmas and Easter holidays they will not be able to teach children who are not in school age. So, can't a younger child or an older person learn a foreign language? When's he going to study? She's not going to study during the vacation? How will they organise their homework when they are obliged to keep all these unbearable bureaucratic procedures that you impose on them? You don't love private initiative at all, and that's what it looks like in education. For the education of refugees everything has been transferred to the decisions of the Ministry, the Minister. There's nothing wrong with the law. Unless you think that the great success of teaching in the 'academy' of twenty two refugees is a precedent for what will follow for the education of immigrants. For intercultural education, the impoverishment of the provisions is unprecedented, and for special education it is totally unacceptable that they should be preferred to those who do not have an object. It is known that special knowledge is needed to treat the children of special treatment. For the pan-Hellenic examinations, I very much follow the Ministry's statements and the intentions report. I don't have a clear picture of what the ministry wants to do. Clearly, the system of pan-Hellenic examinations has failed, since only 10% of those who compete can enter the first school of their choice, while 25% enter with a degree below the base. It is therefore clear that there we must move quickly, because we have a system that is generally accepted. For eternal students, I will tell you this: Eternal student is someone who cannot succeed in completing his studies in time, who has been set for them by the university. This means that there is no updated knowledge of the subject. Studies have a start, medium and end, and have a specific timeline. Otherwise, you learn to inject in 1990 or else in 2010. If you start learning in 1990 and you finish in 2030, then your degree has no content. Because you are talking about children who need to study, the solution was very simple, but you did not adopt it. Those who are not consistent will leave. If there is someone who has left and then wants, in the future, to come back, let him apply and come back. We thus erased a thousand five hundred from the doctorate of Athens Law and returned and asked to return only ten. We got them. Why don't you do the same thing with these students? As far as the six months are concerned, I have already heard you, Minister, who said that they are active students. They're not active students at all. It is the students who are completely indifferent. Because a student who, for some reason, cannot make a statement - is a patient, works - has a special status, which should be followed. So it doesn't have any effect from two semesters. The two semesters cover exactly those who are completely indifferent. I'll be done in less than half a minute. For the movement of teachers, the decade you have put in is excessive and unfair. I would like to say, however, that if you insist on this, at least it will have to be the exception to cover the movement of teachers and lecturers from which the abolition has been decided. It has not been done, but it has been decided. I will put forward this for the Minutes so that you can see it, because it is a regulation which I find to be somewhat balanced about the injustice of the decades. [[At this point, a Member of Parliament, Mr Theodoros Fortsakis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I believe that the omission of the possibility of revoking is not right. There must be the possibility of revocation, because after a number of years, when the conditions are met, it is right that a teacher from a regional university should be able to come to a central university. Now the withdrawal is being phased out. Isn't that right, Minister? There isn't. I conclude by saying that the regulation on administrative officials, which can be made an EIF, wants very close attention, because it is not right to create personal positions that exclude from the possibility of evolving or selecting the EIF category of others, who have not happened to be administrative officials. I am afraid, Minister, that the entire bill, with its provisions, has so many things to do with its content, presents a completely altered form and, unfortunately, completely outrages private education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, Mr. Fortsakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u269	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u270	Mr. Peglerin, I'm listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u271	Mr President, thank you. I would like to refer to Mr Fortsakis' claim to the institutions of bilingual schools, as presented in the bill, that it was handled manually. Mr Fortsakis, I said yesterday that a long processing period was followed. Since October, the committees, which worked out the relevant bill, were set up. I myself have visited schools in the United States, Germany, England, France, Belgium. The most important thing is that these schools - and this is the difference of this institution from the institution proposed by PASOK - require transnational agreements. There must be consensus so that the bilingual school can function. In any case, we place this measure in place in the subsequent school year. Where's the clipboard? It is awkward to try something to suggest it and apply it immediately without waiting for the necessary maturation time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u272	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u273	I would just like to say one word, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u274	Yes, Mr. Fortsaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u275	I explained exactly where I think there is a shortage. I do not doubt that you have personally dealt with it. I say, however, that there was no prior assessment of the educational units abroad, I say that there was no thorough assessment of the implementation of the existing legislative framework and that the positions of the family were not presented. It's clear what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u276	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u277	Don't have any more dialogue. Just a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u278	Who told you the seats didn't show up?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u279	That's right. Without intergovernmental agreements, you will proceed to these arrangements. That's what I said. It's clear what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u280	Who told you they didn't show up?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u281	That's what we say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u282	Look, you hid and the fact that the bill had been given to you since April.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u283	I praised you too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u284	Who told you that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u285	No, that's all I want to say. That's not what I mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u286	Who told you that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u287	I'm not talking to you personally. I'm generally talking about your resignation. What I want to say to you is that it was clearly taken into account in the view of the family. When I visited these countries, didn't I see clubs? What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u288	You saw it. We didn't see.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u289	Also, I'm responsible for the drafting of the bill. The Ministry doesn't work personally. As far as the evaluation is concerned, who told you that there was no evaluation?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u290	Where is he? We haven't seen her.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u291	What do you mean, Mr. Comrade, and I mean as a professor? There are the coordinators, there are the reports. Renewals and extensions of teachers are based on evaluation. Who told you that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u292	We haven't seen them, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u293	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u294	Mr President, every time a colleague speaks, will the Minister answer? We'll finish tomorrow!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u295	Say what you said now to Mr Fortsakis if he is satisfied with the dialogue that has taken place and I will tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u296	Why wouldn't he be happy?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u297	There has been a constructive dialogue. And it is one of the few times that this kind of dialogue is taking place and it is not a screaming dialogue. You forsake me for that? For Christ's sake! The one who should be complaining is Mr Leventis, who stoicly awaits his turn with exceptional decency. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u298	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your kindness to listen to me. The press has declared a war against me, supposedly I'm going with SYRIZA. There are headline articles that I'm going with SYRIZA. I with SYRIZA - in order to explain - only convergingly on the simple analogy issue - and this matter is essential, are not secondary - because it is the constant request of my party, the Centroon Union, but I imagine those who have democratic perceptions in that country. New Democracy, with allies Ms. Fofi and Mr. Stavros, gave Mr. Mitsotakis the hope of fifty bonus seats. History has written it and the people will appreciate it. And then, if he re-vokes them, it means he agrees, but if he punishes them, it will show the night of the elections. It was a great opportunity for simple analogue to pass and for the place to return from self-restraints and arrogance to go to the co-operations. The New Democracy, of course, has campaigned all over Greece that we would have intensified. And it was helped by statements by SYRIZA Ministers, who came out twenty days before we voted here and said, "Three bonus seats will be left", as well as the Minister responsible. There were great mistakes, because in SYRIZA, it seems, there were divided perceptions. Fortunately, the logic was prejudicial. But I see that we have forgotten the simple analogue, and now we are entering education, one and the other. We forgot the simple analogue. And that's why when some journalists asked me: "You're so hot for the simple analogue," I said: "Neither was Tsipra's own target, as much as mine." I did not see Mr. Tsipras on his tours across Greece mentioning the question of mere analogous all the time. At some point I saw him and he told me that he understood that ruling a government with a hundred and fifty-three is a little bit of a fruitless and inefficient and it would be better to have a three-party government. That's why I went out and said the Prime Minister was mature. I'm in charge. Anyone in this place grows and dares and says publicly his views, I will reward him. But I asked my meetings with Mr. Tsipras to stop going through bills with a hundred and fifty-three. I think it's splitting. Maybe he's numerically out of it, but I personally think it's splitting. And the question of education, which is a major issue, should not have passed with fifty - three. You had to consult much more and we had to get to a greater number of Members. If the government continues to pass the same, that is to say, bills with a hundred and fifty three, we will go back to the logic and the climate that we were before the mere analogy, a climate of tension, where some people will say 'we will abolish everything when we come', the others will not say for free and this project of mere analogy. It went for free, because I did not see it as a way of improving the country's political life, but I saw it as a way of changing the behaviour of the parties anymore. The bill of simple analogy I saw it as a starting point for changes. If SYRIZA continues with the hundreds of fifty-three, it returns to the old period, the division, the conflicts, and I think that does not serve him either. Unless it verifys the New Democracy's views, that the bill only brought it to harm Mr. Mitsotakis does not become a Prime Minister. I believe that such serious and top bills should not come with the aim of not becoming a Prime Minister, but in order to improve the political things of a country. That's what I think. So the campaign against me continues that I went with Tsipras. And I went out on a television yesterday and said: "If I go with Tsipras, no one will vote for the Centro Association again." What other statement should I make? All the papers say I'm going with Tsipras. And because it also coincides with a trip to New York now and the Prime Minister is invited as Head of State and at the same conference I am, on the initiative of the relatives, today all the sites and all the newspapers say that we are going out to close the "conn". They say that a Mr. Kegeroglou said that Tsipras takes Leventis to New York and writes as an observation this gentleman, Kegeroglou - obviously a MEP of Fofi - that the "cone" was closed, Tsipras takes Leventis with him in New York. I'm tabling this for the Minutes. [[Mr Vassilis Leventis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But since in the Democratic Association and in Mrs Fofi, they know that I will go with Mr. Tsipras, I have here a post of the newspaper "The AUGI", which I have seen with awe, that we owe it money that the Minister of Foreign Affairs asks for back. And here is why the money from the ESF had been received: EUR 398 000 in 2002 to implement the EFF two development cooperation programmes, namely the restructuring of the Georgian Parliament and the creation of small and medium-sized enterprises in Bulgaria. It had taken 398 thousand euros, and the Minister, who has to ask for them, is asking for them, because the Court of Auditors cannot sit with his hands crossed. So PASOK has other activities. It creates companies in Bulgaria and helps the Georgian State grow. We have these activities, which are, of course, paper activities, because to ask for the money back, the activities were not there. Please warmly write in the Minutes and give an answer. [[Mr Vassilis Leventis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I have no hard feelings to God. If the money was taken, they'd better keep it. And he says they took them as a NGOs. First of all, is the ETA a NGO? As a NGO, he says, they took it. You, too, have done the same thing as "Karamanlis". Because if we look, our alimony. If we go back, we'll find ministries to fund. In other words, we had parties that took money, we had loans from banks that were being given careless, we had the NGOs and the institutions that they also received. And they were getting on jobs they didn't do. And you sit in the exam, and what are you looking for? Looking for the loans. I don't understand, will any of the people who you're looking for returns? You know we're doing an examination, I think, on the subject of loans. You're not done. Constantine's paralyzed, several of them were paralyzed. Do you have the opinion - unless you have time to lose as parliamentarians instead of going to the cafeteria - that someone or parties will make money? The New Democracy to return the money must be two hundred, three hundred years. Please, now. Do you have the opinion that any of the people who ate the money will come back? The money should not be given if we were really serious. Mrs. Fofi came out, I remember, to Mr. Hanji at the SKAI and said that I was the one saying other things today, but I'm saying tomorrow. Honestly, if I bring you my papers since 1990 and my forms - because I have a file - I don't believe there is anyone else who says the same thing. And I have received telegrams and letters from many of my colleagues who say to me: 'Several times the same.' And I answer them: “Be afraid if I change. When the politician says the same, don't be afraid of him because he has faith in him. When it changes continuously, depending on what the communication scientists suggest, there be afraid of him." That's my opinion. There was also a journalist coming out on a channel yesterday and said that in the presence of a SYRIZA MP I told the station's lobby that I would take the vice-presidential office from Tsipras, I would take the Ministry of Development and a dozen ministries. 'I do not say...' - that is what he said - '...the name of the Member'. I'll tell you what happened. I went to talk to the channel and this reporter tells me: "Mr. Leventis, what did you do and go with Tsipras? What have they given you?" I say: "I didn't give Tsipra anything. He lost the bonus that could as a big party hope to get it." I didn't see him get anything to give me a price, 'cause he took. He's lost. Mitsotakis took fifty seats, and Fofi and Stavros must be apologized for offering them to him. They must be apologied." So, then, he says laughing: “And what Ministries gives you?”
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u299	Mr President, Fofi is Mrs. Gennimata.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u300	Mrs. Gennamas. I'm sorry. If you call me Santa, I'm not insulted. Andreas had a nice name. He has never been misunderstood and he has never said, "Tell me Papandreou." What were we talking about? You interrupted me. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u301	The Ministries have told you what.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u302	For the ministries. And I said laughing at this main journalist that I want the Vice-President of the Government, the Ministry of Development and a dozen ministries, because we are a party too, and we need to make ruffles. That's what I said. The congressman, who they did not mention, is called Vetas Dimitrios and is a congressman Phthytidos. I would ask the honourable Member, whenever he speaks, to refer to the matter. He didn't realize I was plagiarizing the reporter. And he says: "There is a confession that you had agreed ministries. Mr Leventis said so himself." He didn't realize I was joking. It's okay. He will understand it when he sees that Mr. Leventis will be a Central Electoral Association and will fight for the center, but some other parties will be a subsidiaries of Mr. Mitsotakis. And I make a recommendation to Mr. Mitsotakis. He thinks taking a stem from here and a stem from there will increase his percentage. People don't appreciate such behavior. And since some are confusing that they're taking some people, the future won't show? The future will be undisputed whether you are taking or not. I'm explaining. For education now, I have to say that Article 28 is completely wrong in my view. Why? Listen. We have memorials, and we have financial difficulties. So if we go to a private schoolmaster and tell him "your teachers become permanent", because private schools have a delay in tuition, they will not be able to respond. So they can't fire what happens to them? They'll close one after the other. At least, as long as there are memorials and economic dystomia, dismissal must be allowed for very serious reasons and these serious reasons must be judged either by the courts or committees of not party trade unionists, committees of serious importance which respect their outcome. It's the wrong idea. The only right I have found in this bill and we will vote for it is that the eternal so-called students are given the right to re-register and be students. Do you want me to tell you why? Because I accidentally have a dozen friends who are 60 years old, another fifty years old, and they're asking me to study at universities. I sent a letter to Benaki, she was a parliamentarian for years now, and I said to her: "Receive these students." He tells me, "Don't they be crazy"? Because when he wants a 60-year-old to be a doctor, he might also be crazy. Listen, all over the world, whenever one or twenty-five years old, or thirty or eighty or sixty to be a student, why deprive him of it, since he's not going to practice the profession anyway? Here, the twenty-seven who come out, there's no room for them to practice the profession. Why deprive a man of his vision of being a doctor at sixty? Is it an exit? Does it hurt? He says, we're cutting out eternal students. Why? What will hurt the country if five hundred people come out every two or three years and get the diploma at a high age? Are we gonna get hurt? Let's not practice it. Let's say whoever gets the degree beyond sixty has no right to write to professional clubs, not to practice the profession so that we don't have to operate like this at sixty-one when he's taken the degree under these circumstances. But depriving the other of his right to go to college when this could be his most brilliant dream, that's unthinkable. Please warmly, the layout is correct. I think that New Democracy had abolished it, a right to some people in learning was abolished. That's how I see it. Well, I don't have much to say. Also, Article 27 is a little solo, because it turns back twenty years and asks whether it will be six to seven thousand universities that the democracies did not deserve the 15% percentage, and we will now go to people and look for them back and destroy families. This should either become a less time-consuming debt or not be done in future. I see this as a mistake, because it is six to seven people who have not acted dormantly, acting on the basis of opinions from the Legal Board of the State. If there were no such opinions, which they considered to be heavy, that would not work that way. I think the government should be kind enough to see it, because the purpose of this House is not to destroy people, but to build Greece from now on on new bases. Well, I don't want to abuse time. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for listening. I would like to stress once again to SYRIZA Members something. The bill on the simple analogue if it was just a knife to Mitsotakis, I didn't see it that way, and that's why I voted for it. I think you did. Please do not go through bills again with 153 so that we don't turn the House to the previous ones, because we destroy something that was going to be built. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u303	Mr President, may I have the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u304	What personal? Explain. He mentioned a word post.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u305	Thank you for the time you're going to give me to document the staff. The President referred to my face and, of course, referred to the President and other Heads in a way of dismantling, which I am returning to him. I won't call him. And he knows very well that others can talk...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u306	What did I say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u307	It was a disgraceful way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u308	Oh, how.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u309	Of course, you're justified, because you've been delivering the last. Apart from Mr. Calliano, you've lost too much...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u310	Now, however, this is not on personal grounds, your attack. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u311	He interrupted me, Mr. President. What's "please" now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u312	But you said on staff. That's all, please. Stay tight on the personal matter. We will not make all our political speech now. [[Protests from the Centro Ward]] Here's what you're doing. Well, please tell me about the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u313	If I speak for a minute, I'll finish. Well, Mr. President, when 85% is condemning the government today, he is next to Mr. Tsipras and he thinks he is raining in the summer. That's his thing, though. But at the same time, it seems that he's made a contract with Mitsotakis. He prophesies here that Mitsotakis is the first in the next election. That's Mr. Leventis, and that's his stability. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u314	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u315	Now, ladies and gentlemen, you understand that the abuse of staff has reached outrageous levels. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u316	On the basis of the polls, I said that Mr Mitsotakis was the first. Unless Mr. Kegeroglu has other polls. As far as there is a derogatory method is concerned, I have asked for'requiremental words' and now the notion of a derogatory way has been mentioned. Here Mr. Scandalides, who is the President of the EMFF, declared me "writing" a week ago and I was close to getting in and having an incident. Is that right? Well, and he said "no, sympathies I showed, sympathies. Please!’
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u317	Good! It's thought that the episode was over.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u318	Mr President, may I have the floor for a legislative improvement?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u319	You're welcome, Minister. We're listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u320	Thank you, Mr President. It is a matter which Mr Leventis, the President of the Union of Centres, has just touched on, and on the issue of debts, one or another of the forms, of university professors, in relation to the programmes and grants we have had in the past twenty years. We're making an improvement. We give the possibility ‘the debts of teachers and lecturers of state-of-the-art company members, which have been created until the publication of this law under the above provisions, shall be subject to completion. The termination shall be effected if a request for termination is submitted to the relevant EESC within six months of the receipt of the relevant debts. The amount to be paid for the completion of the termination shall be 20% of the total amount receivable on net income.’ I think it's a solution that can give a way out. However, they remain the issues we have raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u321	Is that what you're doing now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u322	Now, yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u323	Thank you very much. We'll appreciate that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u324	He'll give it to us now and be distributed to the MPs. Mr President of the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u325	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I am very sorry to hear from you, I have no incident of my television history, what they told me from a channel to a channel, because on no channel of the channels of the pimps of intercom, supposedly broken up these days and creating a new status, I am not summoned. The fact is that our party's spokesman's statement thirty-seconds ago was only transmitted by the state television station. Before I refer to the education bill, which is the subject of today's meeting, I would like to make a complaint: The Golden Dawn has been holding a ceremony every year in the holy place of the Thermopoils, where the whole nation should be located once a year, where there should be a lime cedar for the souls of the greatest heroes of Greek history. And through the website "Indymedia" we are informed that some anti-powered persons are organizing a gathering near this site, because there is a hotel where there are refugees and illegal immigrants. First of all, I declare before Parliament that our purpose is the Thermopylae space and the price of the three hundred Leonidas and seven hundred Thesaurus and no one else. And I consider politically accountable both to the Minister of Justice, Mr Paradise, and to the Minister of Civil Protection, Mr Toska, if, on the pretext of the anti-concentration of their petty children, they prevent the three hundred of Leonidas from being honored by the golden people. I would like to say at this point that this is not the first time that an anti-Gold Dawn anti-concentration is being organised. And we had a recent example of the fierce beating of the Tropical Commander in the center of Athens, the University Street and the tragic - in my opinion - of statements by the Minister for Civil Protection that "there were some we do not know, etc.". In fact, he referred to it and said "it is not our fault, we received the status of Exarchates". The question is, where was Mr. Toskas when there was the state of the Exarchates, because I don't think there was any of the 4% components of the COOPERATION, there was somewhere else? And during those days these things did happen, the sad things that continue to be done. The new Republic had declared that it would close the ‘Indymedia’. Nothing happened. The entire state, even today, is under attack from these circles. There have even been attacks on SYRIZA's residence and nothing is going on. There seem to be some forces that are higher than the government in Greece that sustain these phenomena. They are the forces of George Soros and all those old-fashioned globalisation who want to dismantle the nation state. Education, in accordance with Article 16 of the Constitution, aims at the national and religious education of the Greeks. And in no case do we see the bill serving the Greeks' national and religious education. And since I am referring to "religious", I can only refer to the speech made by the Minister of State, Mr Phile, when the debate on the bill began, which began with the words: "The debate is taking place today, a few days before sanctification." Help, Mr. Friend! I thought you wanted to do - as you said - a neutral state. Now you'll slowly get dressed and grandparents, from what I can see, because - you see - behind priests and priests there are many votes hidden and you don't dare take off your marxist extortioners who say that religion is the opium of the people. He also said Mr Philis that the first act of the government is to restore the climate of democracy in schools, to stop the vengeance with the alias of evaluation. If there were indeed vengeance, I strongly condemn them. But we cannot condemn evaluation as a necessity for anything in this world. Teachers put grades on students, and teachers have to score by some to evaluate. If you cannot build a truly remarkable committee that judges these things and always work with the clientele and party state, then you are failed. He also said Mr. Friend, there's a lot of talk about excellence. Let us know that, behind the word excellence, different and sometimes diametrically opposite policies are at stake. Yes, indeed - your Minister said so - behind excellence is hiding a fascist regime. Perhaps for you a fascist regime is a regime that is nationalistic, which enables excellent people to move forward rather than to the good, to the customer and party state. Such a regime can bring to Greece only the Golden Dawn. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] It is no accident that the bill concerns - as you said - Greek-language education. It could be said that it is a form of speech, if there was not the ideological background that the Greek nation is the creation of the second half of the 19th century, that we are not Greek, that is, but Greek-languages v Falmeryer. And I don't imagine that. And Professor Liakos, whom you have put to regulate the issues of education, supports this in his book, of course, unlike many left-wing intellectuals who see national continuity. Mr. Friend also said in one - if I'm not mistaken - that there should be no white pages in history. We're totally in agreement. But what are you going to write about this period? Will you get extracts from Thanassis Valtinos, who is left - who speaks of the slaughter of right-wing patriots from the left? Are you going to put on Melilla's slaughter? It is time, do you think, and you are the right ones - a party that, up to a few years ago, had 4% and you belonged to the extremist Left - to create a story that will not bring national division? There was a great man, an Italian left-wing intellectual, named Gramsey. He had said - and his theory is called grayism - that if we understand all the positions of intellectuals, all the positions of education, it will surely be power in our hands. And you did. And you did so politically by taking the parliamentary majority along with the Greek Independent Party. But you didn't bring communism. What Mr Friend has also told us and is absolutely relevant? That there were movements, claims, that there was an interest in real democratic education and that Constantine Karamanlis, the oldest, was also accused of it. That's what it is. The gates of education on the Left and the full domination of Marxism are not a matter of eighteen or twenty months that SYRIZA governs. It's a case from 1974 to today. And it is no coincidence that in the elections that are taking place in the field of universities, the left takes almost 90%. What's going on? All the other Greeks who are Right, Centroids are stupid and all the brilliant minds, all the high IQs are on the Left? Of course not. A guild has been created, a production industry has been set up for teachers and lecturers, and this is why it is responsible - and let it not be complained - for the New Democracy, which opened the gates of Marxism in education. Also, Mr. Friends in his speech also referred to the refugee. I will not say exactly the words so that I do not abuse time. And he talked about schools around camps, that is kindergarten in hot spots, at the same time that a large part of the Greeks can't send their children to kindergartens and kindergartens. But, anyway, in these hot spots what kind of kindergarten are you going to make? Moroccans, Algerians, Iraqis, Syrians? And where will those who will teach them? Mr. Friends says, "We have secured 9m euros for travel by the International Organisation of Migration, we have 7m from Community funds for organization and educational staff, 16m euros for kindergarten education in hot spots". Where will this money go, ladies and gentlemen? George Soros' Non-Government Organisations and SYRIZA Party Customers who are appointed. The nominations in the Greek state have not been stopped. Don't think that's the case, they're going on. I would then like to refer to the big issue that this bill also deals with, but does SYRIZA in general, that it can be attributed citizenship to those involved in Greek education. And very often - this thing was heard again in the Chamber - they use the saying of the Isokratians, which reads as follows: "And it seems that Greeks are calling them for the education of the day, or those of the common nature in which they participate." Based on this phrase, then, those who see a cosmopolitan role in the Greeks say that one does not need to be Greek in conscience, Greek in blood, Greek in origin. It only takes him to participate in Greek education. At this point I am using an excerpt from the history of ancient Greece, Ulrich Wilken, translated by the professor of the University of Thessaloniki, Mr. Toulomakos, who says: “Isocrates, of course, mentions his feast in 380 BC. "Athens is so much exaggerated in the thought and speech, that these disciples of the other teachers are being cast down and the Greek name is believed to be nothing of the genus, but of the mind of the vessel is, and rather the Greeks are calling them for the education of the day, or of the common nature by participating." Papazis Publications, please, the book, not by any fascist or nationalist publishing house and is taught at the University of Thessaloniki. I don't know if he's been retired in recent years. "However, with this phrase, Isocrat does not want to include, as he has often argued, the Greeks and these extremists, because for him barbarians continue to be the natural enemies of the Greeks." Formal paragraph 158, Panathinaikos paragraph 163. "The meaning of the phrase is rather that the Isocrat considers real Greeks only those who have received attic education". Stop the distortion of the Isocrat's words at last. The Greeks are born, they don't happen in schools. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] I would like to end with the words of a special spiritual man who has chosen from disgustingly his voluntary exit from life, the late professor Liantine from his book "The Greeks". Because SYRIZA has certainly not broken the education, the whole post-political regime has broken it. So he writes the late Liandin - and I conclude with his words - "Today a millstone is plaqueing the education of our children. A bracelet writes the present miserable and horribly deletes the future of the country. Because the lawsuit is bad. And youth education is the foundation of the state." That's what you're pulling up, that's what you're dismantling with what you're doing. "The education of young people is the strong blood and the iodine air for the future of the peoples. Investment safer for a long-term perspective you're not going to find it. The truth is spoken of and besieged from the laws of the Lykork to the UN maps. But our own education has a blood-critical leukaemia," said Liantine. This continues and will continue until the Greeks' time, the Golden Dawn time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u326	We're on our way with the MPs. The speaker of SYRIZA Mr Georgopoulos - Saltari Efstathias for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u327	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law, which regulates, among other things, issues of the good functioning of private schools and schools, clearly illustrates our efforts to defend the public interest. We have recently heard from various people that excellence is being persecuted, that it is retsentful, while something similar is being done these days in the tendering of television licences. We hear that media pluralism and other irresponsible comments are being persecuted. The reality is both in one and the other, in this bill and in the other, the ongoing process of licensing private television channels, that the very opposite is the case. Private schools, according to the Constitution, provide public goods. Private television stations use a public asset. They must therefore operate under effective state supervision. We neither limit the right of private schools or the right to operate private television stations. We are, however, defending the equivalency between all pupils, guaranteeing the employment rights in schools against the existing status of austerity and extortion which has been particularly imposed in recent years. Of course, in previous years, the neoliberal governments have shrinked public school units and threw 'black' on the public television station, discovering and revealing who you were really ruling for. I would remind you of the redundancies made in the ESDP - EPAS, when specialities were abolished, while at the same time the Minister of Education was inaugurating private centres, which were exactly the same. We restore the supervision of private education in the Ministry of Education, to ensure equality for pupils and teachers, and we auction for commercial exploitation a public asset, i.e. the frequencies, guaranteeing public and labour rights revenues. In short, democratic rules are being introduced everywhere and for everyone. When we are dealing with such critical issues with national and geopolitical implications, such as Greek-language education, but also with the settlement of the opacity regime in private schools, we cannot regard education as a market activity - a clear vine. I will concentrate in particular on the subject of the provisions on Greek-language and intercultural education. The need for more effective regulation of the framework of Greek-language education abroad exists. In particular, the strengthening of the supervisory and control role of the Ministry of Education is essential today that our country is still in the warp of the economic crisis, in order to deal with possible past phenomena, such as the fragmentation of funds and customer services. At this point, taking into account the explicit wording of the aim of promoting knowledge and awareness in relation to the Greek cultural heritage, as well as the promotion of the cultural specificities of the Greek community locally, I would like to raise the question of the more complete contact of Greeks abroad with our culture through the enrichment of Greek-language education with additional activities. In addition to strengthening the schools of the Greek community, such as Hungary, Albania and other countries, I had put the emphasis on the cultural process of Greek culture, theatre, literature, dance, arts and, of course, there is a great need to send other Greek teachers, who might also be able to take part in organising international cultural programmes. The people there are thirsty and at the same time expressing their anxiety that the children of the second and third generation will become socialists of Greek tradition, as well as of contemporary cultural creativity. I am making an immediate proposal to the Ministry of Education in this respect. In our country and especially in the Prefecture of Ilias, the International Olympian Film Festival for Children and Youth is held every year. It is an institution that magnetizes every year students with the multiple actions it has opened, except for the monitoring of films written for children and young people. This year, for the first time, a prize was introduced for the Greek Parliament for the festival. In the first phase, these films, which are aimed at human ideals and values, could be screened in schools abroad and, in the next phase, could be launched by children's experiment laboratories to create small films themselves. Intercultural education is a very serious issue and we, through the SYRIZA's programming texts, have the goal of an educational system which will all be based on the values and principles of intercultural and anti-racist education, promote respect for human rights, equality, mutual understanding, solidarity and between individuals and groups and combat racism, xenophobia, social exclusion and all kinds of stereotypes. Finally, I would like to dwell on the ministerial amendment with a general number of 640 and a specialist 41, which concerns about eight and a half thousand school cleaners, which have been diagnosed in previous years, with even seven months left unpaid, as was done in 2013. From this, the Stepma and from 2012, I have pointed out and have stirred up this injustice many times. It is important that for the first time after many years, cleaners were paid without a significant delay in May two - June 2016. Today the amendment also excludes contracts for 2016-2017 from the approval of the PHS Committee and this ensures the uninterrupted cleanup of the school units throughout the country and this year. In addition to the existing amendment, I call on the school committees to have credits in good time and to be able to pay the cleaners on a monthly basis, just as they provide their services. I know that this is a complex technical process, because it is a project lease, but on the other hand, we must also open roads where there are no roads, as the Prime Minister has said, and defend with all our powers the people of work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u328	Thank you, too. Mr Dimitrios Baxvanakis, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes. Mr. Baxvanakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u329	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in twelve days' time, the bell is ringing for the start of a new school year in our country's schools. There has been a very serious effort by the Ministry of Education this year to develop differently. Already all school manuals are in schools, and teachers will be in their positions after many decades. Many and many aspects hope that things will not go well and some even try not to start a smooth course. They'll be disproved. This school year will be different, it'll be better than any previous year. Besides, this is what the situation is about in special lawsuits. Already with ministerial decisions, there are five hundred thirty - one new sections of integration in our schools, sixty - one in kindergarten, three hundred - four in primary schools, a hundred - six in high school. There are also twenty-three new special education schools, three special kindergartens, six special primary schools, six special vocational schools and five special vocational training workshops. In addition, more than nine thousand deputies have been provided for special treatment. It has not been a long time since here we discussed the provisions on special education, introducing the concept of inclusion which is the global trend in the educational perception of these school units. And what we did not hear from all sides of anti-population and also from many trade union leaders. The special treatment is supposedly shrinking, degrading, its schools and structures are closing down. Unfortunately, for the zeros the reality is quite different. Destructors are misguided. The Government proves in practice that the special action is, in practice, a priority. With regard to the provisions of the private education bill, I will not go much further on the issue of undoubted redundancies. All citizens have now realised that the bill is trying to protect private teachers from the immunity of certain schoolchildren. It has also been made perfectly understandable in the Greek society that the New Democracy, which is passionately - and this is impressive - defends the supreme right of schoolchildren to lay off uncontrollablely and unregulatedly. It is good that the New Democracy continues and ensures that it reminds us of who they are each time. It is good for all of us and for society in general. As he ensures every day to remind us that he's on the side of the canals, that he's with the lawlessness of the twenty-seven years, that he's in trouble, that he's with the financially powerful. Keep reminding us. It's good for all of us. I shall dwell on the provisions relating to the legal and transparent functioning of private schools, as well as education centres and language centres. What is sought is simple, to know the services of the Ministry of Education and the Labour Inspectorate, the weekly programme, the number of departments and the number of pupils of each department, as well as the teacher of each teaching time. To speak openly, there is a serious attempt to deal with the tax evasion which is wrathing in these areas, like tax evasion, because there are many cases where fewer hours of work are said than they are. A platform is set up to register the necessary data and submit electronically to the services of the Ministry of Education. From its own structure, it is obvious that the completion of this platform will be relatively easy and will not add excessively new operational or administrative costs to these enterprises, which are generally small, as they are provincial or district care centres and centres of foreign languages. This simplicity and convenience must be reflected, Minister, and in the decision setting out the procedure for submission. In the words, we all call for tax evasion and tax evasion to be addressed. The government actually proves that it is moving in this direction. Those who react, let them explain exactly what they stand for. It is also established as full hours of educational instruction and foreign language centres, twenty-one hours a week. This working hours are nothing new. It is what employers and workers had agreed to when the free collective bargaining still existed. It is therefore clear that teachers working with this full training hour will be entitled to twenty-five brands, regardless of the distribution of these hours during the week. And this, so that teachers are not wronged that their working hours are compressed in a few days of the week, and so they have had adverse consequences as to the possibility of getting unemployment benefit in the summer or establishing pension rights. The rule is simple: full-time, full-time. Finally, the self-evident thing is being established. Anyone who works on Sundays or on holiday days will be paid as required by labour legislation. It is funny and I honestly say this with a dose of melancholy, that some employers tell us that we are trying to defend labour rights against the Memorandums. They're right. That's exactly what we're trying to do. I shall end with a word about the irregular diplomas issued by some private TEIs. The draft law extends the time horizon of control. I do not understand your reactions at this point. If there are irregular degrees, either before 2004 or after 2008, do these cases have to be uncontrolled? I am impressed by this objection from those who, in 2007, passed the relevant law on Ms. Giannakou's Ministership, a law which, of course, even the same ones who voted for him, never applied it, as the PASOK Government did not apply to him, as well as the two partners, which came then. We will therefore apply the law and extend the time limits of control. I do not understand how they react, when their Chief was Minister for Administrative Reform, and that was not his priority. It was not his priority to check the irregular evidence of studies and possibly to bear the repercussions on those who possessed them. His priority was another: to lay off and make available thousands of workers, including two and a half thousand teachers of vocational training. And that's good to remember, so we all know and remember who Mr. Mitsotakis is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u330	Thank you, Mr. Baxvanakis. Mr Ioannis Antoniadis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u331	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. Today we are discussing a bill on Greek-language education, intercultural with references to private and special education. However, the most important thing is that the Minister's intentions have been revealed throughout the days that we have been discussing this bill, both for the history of white pages and for public education and for the abolition of pan-Hellenics. First of all, I heard Mr Phile - and we heard him all - answer Mr Georgiadis and give the impression that they were apologising. Do you know why? Because they did apologise for all the cooking they have done so far and for what they are planning in the future and for which they will apologise for many years. We start the school period with ten thousand gaps only in primary education, seven thousand two hundred gaps in general education, two thousand gaps in special treatment, three thousand gaps in parallel support and more than two thousand gaps in all other unpaid leave etc. I don't know if perhaps the Minister didn't show that much interest if things were better. I come to the bill very soon, because I think most of them have been mentioned. For special treatment, I would like to say that that is quite clearly what the New Democracy said in previous years - since all teachers of special education are being absorbed, but also the alternates of it, from there on, can also enter general education and general education. On the issue of upgrading Greek languages to bilinguals, I would like to make two points: ensuring access to Greek and foreign HEIs and the preservation of Greek education, which is of major importance. We are not giving any Greek birds to the Germans or the Americans. Here I would like to ask the Minister if the transnational agreements can be secured by 2018. It is also very important that there should be dialogue and consultation between the four parties, the Ministry of Education, Students and Parents. This, of course, needs credibility. The Ministry's credibility is wounded and absolutely needs to be restored. I would also like to mention the fact that we do not understand why the secondments of teachers are not promoted without a bonus and then everyone else. This conceals feasibility. Why are foreign language diplomas degraded and, in general, foreign language diplomas for teachers and managers requesting secondment abroad? It conceals feasibility and moves in the logic of minor effort. It is also a question of justifying dismissal. Here, we need to find the golden incision and the teachers not to become prefectures of schoolchildren, but also the schoolmasters can operate. So we have to find a golden incision, which is functional. For eternal students, what do we say? We are moving rapidly backwards, even with the two semesters that the Minister has previously given. I come to the majors now. The Minister mentioned the issue of white pages and the rewriting of history on some issues which he believes are missing. After the Minister himself and his predecessor took care of events from history of major importance, he now wants to replace them. This reminds me of the joke with Toto, who killed his mother to go on an orphanage trip and then, when he came back, he denounced it, he mourned and demanded a mother. The subject of history is very serious, not to Mr Philly, but to the particular government. Mr. Friend, all he declares everywhere is the issue of the democratic army. In fact, recently in Florina, who came to Prespecies, he gave us lessons about the history of the democratic army at the opening of the public library. He did not say, however, that if the democratic army then prevailed, he would take a vacation in Siberia and have the end of Zachariadis. Of course, all of us, right-wing, would have been swallowed by the great democracy of the democratic army. But since the government prevailed, today it is Minister and can freely think and proclaim everything. I wanted to ask him whether this writing along with the democratic army is also thinking about putting a chapter on 'Exarchis Revolutionaries' and whether this is also an issue that Mr Toskas is negotiating with, along with the extra privileges - from what he says - which he is negotiating with these collectives. Of course, he has not so far said any word about the incident with the Commander of Troy. We have heard some of the Minister's thoughts on the subject of public education. It's a mix of contradictions. When they talk about resources, they say they saved resources with the proper distribution of teachers. When the JRC comes out and says that you reduced resources, it says: 'No, we gave more'. How come one and the other? Finally, let the Minister take care of his thoughts and tell us what he wants, because he says this and the other that education is for children and for nothing else. Generally, he has been trying to present and identify SYRIZA with public education and the New Democracy with the private. For what public education, ladies and gentlemen, when all that you have received, primary schools, high school, high school, institutions and structures, has created and built all these things up by the New Democracy and those who ruled before you. Haven't you even put a nail in public education and come out supporters of public education? And he's been tearing crocodile tears for teachers for so long when we've been talking about making a replacement for wages, when there's gonna be an increase in GDP, and we're only talking about judiciary and all the other university professors and not the fighters. And of course, you didn't exclude education from the cutter. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] And the last and most important is who's talking about public education? The ones who send their children to the private. I come to the question of the abolition of the pan-Hellenics. It is a great story that cheerfully tickles the ears of small and large. There won't be any exams? There will be. Won't there be any hidden evidence? There will be. Won't there be a common theme? There will be. Aren't other teachers going to fix the writings? If these aren't there, the tests aren't inconsistent. So there will be tests. The only thing that can be changed is the title instead of all the Greeks becoming national, regional, municipal or anything. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I conclude, Mr President, by saying that these are more serious than the bill. I am addressing the Minister, and I say: do not try to divide the Greek people, plunder the climate to entangle your voters. That's not going through anymore. The party walls have fallen and the people want works, development and results. Otherwise the back will turn you around, and all of this will turn boomerang. And I close with one question: why don't you, Minister, finish the education transfer at universities? Who or who do you expect to fill in the time condition so that he can participate in these transfers? What you're doing doesn't honor anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u332	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u333	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u334	Wait a minute, Minister. There's a request for permission for absence. The Deputy Dodecanese of SYRIZA Mr Dimitrios Gakis seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad for personal reasons from 1 September to 5 September 2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u335	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u336	Mr Antoniadis, of all those who are seconded abroad, are the first to those who have no payroll. I've made it clear yesterday and repeat the same thing again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u337	That's pleasant.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u338	The only exception, if I may, is in Munich, where I explained yesterday that this is an excellent one for this year to stop the corruption process. I explained it yesterday. And if I'm not cheating...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u339	For the transfer, say why they don't complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u340	That's not my point. When the Minister comes, he'll tell you. What I want to say to you, too, is that I think the opening of the library that took place in your homeland in Florina was in elementary rather than public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u341	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Maria Triantafel has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u342	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking today about a bill that is not rhetorical, but it is an important bill. I think, however, that what prevails is the intensity of the struggle not for guiding public opinion, but for guiding common sense, for common sense itself. Right and old bipartisanism has created a real-time structure between traditional media and social networks. They have instantly an army of professionals, who reproduce and broaden the information - built lies, and we should stop exercising amateur defense. A number of colleagues have spoken from the Qualified Opposition to split. There have been a lot of arguments, a lot of funny arguments, in my view. Some arguments were being spoken about manipulation of the procedure, because the Minister first started to speak and that this triggers controversy and does not help consensus and dialogue, as well as the great path to the freedom that the New Democracy of Constantine Mitsotakis begins. They heard wisdom about parental choice in private schools. And, of course, there was also the argument of the sloppy legislature and the reappointment of education and public education. You have spoken with examples, ladies and gentlemen of the Staff Regulations. You spoke of the school models that were abolished. You have not talked about the 'Athena' project. You spoke of the themes bank. All sorts of legitimation miracles! You remember the theme bank. You remember that the subjects had been given three days before the examinations, during a period of no lessons, and therefore no teaching aid was allowed for very difficult subjects, issues that had not been controlled by anyone and which, however, achieved their purpose, which were to magnify the inequalities and to evade the disciples of the last throne. You spoke of sloppyness to you who did not know well - how many students are studying in the educational structures of the family. You've been studying the differentials of each family, so, and their needs? Oh, no. You spoke about evaluation - and you are talking about evaluation - you who forgot that in the bill you brought a default percentage of faileds. For the Left, the enjoyment of the good of education by all citizens has always been a weapon of social and personal emancipation and a means of deepening democracy. Today, perhaps more than ever, knowledge and criticism is a force not only for understanding but also for changing society. And this power must be in the hands of many. The learning of the Greek language abroad has always been necessary, but also a minimum element for the maintenance of Greek consciousness in the next generations. The Greek language, culture and tradition are the threefold that is the most crucial factor in linking the Hellenism of the Diaspora with Greece. During the previous period, many problems had been encountered regarding the training of the results, which still exist. I am not only referring to the dramatic reduction in funding and the corresponding subsidization of educational structures. There was also an ineffective administrative structure and a failure to exercise central control. All of this had created a body of anxiocratic choices so that there would be administrative and economic misconduct, customer relations and personal strategies. There have been too many labels, complaints from relatives, parents' associations and guardians in the Committee on Hellenism of the Dispersion, which I happen to watch. There is, therefore, a pooled experience and an account of the positive and negative, which structures have worked, who has not, what should be strengthened, i.e. how Greek-language education should be redesigned on the basis of the new data. The first chapter lays down new conditions for Greek-language education. It is proposed that the gradual implementation following transnational agreements and the introduction of bilingual schools abroad, with a view to better integration of Greek immigrants into their host countries and to avoiding their ghettoisation. In this effort to reconstruct and support Greek-language education, a framework of flexibility is introduced, the objective of transition to bilingual schools by 2018. There was a controversy about it, if it could be done in the best way. It is right to ask questions, so that we can always find the best solution. We must say, however, - and I think the rapporteur of the New Democracy also said - that foreign schools are aware that they do not provide equal qualifications as education institutions in the countries where they are established and do not allow their students to enter higher universities and institutions in these countries, except as a special category for them to join the Greek AEI. I will speak only little about the second chapter. Arrangements for intercultural education are introduced. Let me just say that immigration is not an expression of the immigrant's thirst for adventure, nor is it an individual case. It is consistent and at the same time due to the unequal development of the countries of dispatch, origin and reception of migrants, as well as war, imperialist invasions of powerful - mainly Western countries - of the 'civilized' world that exports democracy and sows up outroots. And while the main cause of immigration is economic, its consequences are not only economic, but are also political, social, cultural, educational, psychological. Intercultural education is therefore important. Although the school unit has a lower position in the system of education administration, it actually has a key position in the realization of the objectives of education. In addition, it could be understood as the area in which the issues associated with the migratory phenomenon are produced and reproduced. The aim of the regulations is, therefore, to incorporate migrants into the Greek society, as well as to stimulate the acceptance of the different. As expected, Article 28 has been very busy. In a country like Greece, its human resources, its educated young people, are national capital. And in education, as in health, where they are traditionally the pillars of the social state, it is true - it is true - with greater intensity in the last two decades than the governments of extreme neoliberalism, their full subjection - and health and education - to immunity and to the chaos of the free market. The transformation of education into a merchandise, in the well-known Greek parasitic way, in the years of the economic crisis, became the primary objective of successive governments of Papandreou, Papademos and Samaras. The reasons are obvious. Education, with all its symbolisms, is the place where the laws of the market do not have the same effect. The constitutional safeguarding of public education, the educational environment, as well as the concept of Greek society for the education of its children, although in many cases it has been problematic, was one of the last castles of people in the face of insurmountable competition and the endlessness of profit. So this castle must fall. With a number of laws, in the years of the crisis, education has been downgraded and the rights and acquired by both public and private schools have been beaten. Education is and will be at the forefront of confrontation, as its future concerns the future of the country. The New Democracy, as in the competition for television licences, takes the part of interests and is drafted behind concepts which have nothing to do with social liberalism, which is supposed to be defended, nor with the fundamental conquests of the European urban states. The New Republic of Kyriakos Mitsotakis confuses immunity with healthy competition, entrepreneurship with the absence of any legality, Parliament with individual private interests, freedom with the service of friends of relatives and ideological relatives. He charges that this draft law on education is against private initiative in education, while, on the contrary, the bill ensures it. He blames the government for bolshevikism, and in fact the government is doing nothing but defending European achievements. The New Republic of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has unfortunately surrendered to the election and the interests it represents. The content of education has always been a major issue - and that is the most important one - the direction. Is it possible to change the world by transforming the state? I believe that the Left should not allow itself to be marginalized by the struggle within the state, by the struggle for the transformation of its structure. It is incomprehensible that an observer's attitude, a commentator on the relationship of sovereignty in society, is incomprehensible. It's a political weakness. When one government succeeds another, despite any statements of progressiveity, there is no substantial change. And that applies to all of us. But when the social composition of parliaments is changed, when the democratic way of decision-making is changed, when in the case of education, teaching, discipline, mode of operation, symbolic order are changed and transformed, when the education systems, books are changed and transformed for the benefit of the people's interests, citizens, then the worthy system, the system of symbolisms of a society's regulatory framework is changed. Let's work and target this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u343	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Christos Bukokouros from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u344	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, mainly influenced by the fact that one of the two special education courses operates within the framework of the University of Thessaly, in my town, in Volos, I intended to make a few comments. The second division works at the University of Macedonia. I will not, however, deny Mr Philadelphia's challenge to discuss political matters - since there is no general debate on education and education - on some specific issues in education. He said a moment ago, in this Chamber, "Let's finally discuss politics and not personally, let's look at the issues". In fact, the Minister for Education boasts the banner of equality and states his faith in social justice. I would like - and I hope the Minister present will take it - to begin with a question of equality: Main ministers of education, a graduate in primary education with some training courses or a postgraduate course can teach in special education courses. Can the minister responsible tell us which postgraduate courses and which seminars the graduate of special education can teach in primary schools to talk about equality? Because in any case, are we talking about graduates of four-year-old pedagogical classes? So, what is the Minister talking about? The Minister came to the Chamber and again talking about equality, he was almost proud to say, in a very short time, that controls on the licenses and the irregularities that may exist in private schools have been completed. And he said, and I refer to the Minutes, that the checks - of course, they are the responsibility of another ministry - are still going on in public schools and will be completed at some point. Of course, they are the municipalities concerned through the Ministry of the Interior. But shouldn't the Ministry of Education be interested in these checks? There is nothing more to be done by the Ministry of Education than to declare its hostility to private education. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, Ministers, if private education in this country was worth nothing, the parents would not prefer it to be eighty-five thousand students. No one gives - especially in our time - his money turns. It's worth it, it's offering something, and it's very bad for the Minister to deceive her. In the context of a poor communication tactic, within the limits of the hard party propaganda, Mr. Friend New Democracy is accused of being unilaterally in favour of the owners of private schools, of the school directors and so on, because we are in favour of the dismissal of private teachers. The reality is that we are against banning redundancies and not in favour of redundancies. Everyone wants a safety in the working environment of the workers. However, what need for testimony in this Chamber do we have in mind that it is not objective for the government and does not legislate on the basis of equality, that this is not the value of its proposals and drafts? It is a multitude of SYRIZA Members and the ministers who in this Chamber have confessed that "we are discriminatory in favour of the weak". Of course, they refer to the weak as they have in their minds. For the SYRIZA Government - ANEL Weak can be public workers and need protective legislation, but it is not at all weak for private workers, who are still waiting for EUR 751, ladies and gentlemen. What is the equivalency we're talking about? So what objectivity is the Minister talking about? In any case, you are to level out the specific qualifications acquired by the graduates of the two special treatment classes. Again, the Minister is coming and says, "But why are the graduates of special lawsuits shouting? Nine thousand will be appointed this year, in 2016 and only two and a half thousand are the graduates of these departments." For the government it may all be temporary, but not everything is temporary. You are blamed by the graduates for leveling the knowledge they have gained with hardship for four whole years in the peninsula. And the Minister comes in to pave the way for things, saying that next year we will draw up single tables of appointment of permanent and substitutes. However, this is only a political promise to these graduates alone. And the political promises of SYRIZA are all aware in this Chamber of what value they have. That's why the graduates of these departments are accusing you. For private education, I said your animosity was stated and given not only to private education, but to anything private. But if there is no private sector and the private sector does not flourish, sooner or later, the public sector will also die. And this is a principle that you must not ignore. You want anything private in a suffocating frame and then you start chasing it ruthlessly. This is not equality or objectivity. But if the Minister, who is not in the Chamber, wants us to talk politically, even more politically. He came here yesterday and made a fragmented use of some historical personalities, politically and historically renowned, of the centre-right. He referred to Constantine Karamanlis, the late Georgios Rally. He did not, however, tell him that George Rally's bill on private education had no provision for banning teachers' redundancies. On the contrary, the 2002 Euphoria bill changed Articles 30 and 3 to have this provision which made it difficult to dismiss teachers. That's the truth. To make a fragmentary use of the positions expressed forty years ago, for example, the late Paul Bakoyannis, on an issue that is constantly evolving if it is not cheap party propaganda what else is? And what does Mr. Friend want to tell us today? That he's the original interpreter of Karamanlis, or that he better interprets Paul Bakoyannis? Paul Bakoyannis was a personal policy that was linked as few to national reconciliation. Politicians of the slogan "He or we" cannot rely on him, who have no other concern than to divide the people and cultivate the hostility between the professional and social classes of that country in order to gain political benefits. And when he talks about the governments of Constantine Karamanlis, the Minister will have to understand - but he is totally ignoring it - that the governments of Constantine Karamanlis were committed to the political measure, to endless work, and ultimately to the measurable result, attributes with which your Government and your ministers have nothing to do with. So let propaganda go when we discuss issues relating to education. The truth is - and I am staying in these two initial remarks - that you are leveling the professional rights of graduates of special education classes and proving once again your animosity for anything private and, by extension, for private education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u345	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Dimitris Emmanoulidis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u346	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I come to the subject of today's debate, I would like to make a point on an intrusion that exists at the entrance, on the forefront, of the temple of democracy. There are two anaesthetic columns. Xanthippou Pericles Athenian, it's the one. There, then, is an excerpt from the 37 chapter of the Epitaph. ‘We owe the living law, for example, to me, but not to me.’ It has a 'tishin' which, here by the illusion of the engraver, and also by my fellow Members of this House for decades, has not been labelled. And because this space also visits children from schools that are more observant and perhaps more diligent, it is good that we correct it. I now come to the issue of saying that a bill to have a chance of sustainability must be based on two elements: firstly, common sense and, secondly, on a sense of social justice. And when we say "social justice", again through the "Epietal of Pericles", it says that we observe their laws with greater sensitivity and greater dedication to the laws, to those who are for the benefit of the wrongdoers. This 'for the benefit of the wrongdoers' I think is the contributory element in the legislation we are discussing today and we shall vote for because it actually cures inequalities in social and natural inequalities. And I think that's the lawmaker's debt to interfere with these inequalities. What I mean: it is the bill regulating Greek-language education. For years there was Greek-language education abroad that was nothing but a field of state transaction with fellow teachers who entered the listings of PASOK, New Democracy and took the passport to nurse and support Greek-language education in Europe and change. That was the system. We've all lived it. And I think - if we are honest with ourselves - we have no room for questioning. So what do we do now? We come to establish bilingual education, because this enables our children, children of Greeks, second and third generation immigrants, to have the same ability and efficiency in knowing two languages and, most importantly, to be able to integrate into the communities that host them. If this is not a sample, a print, a social sensitivity and an effective understanding of education issues, what else can it be? I now come to the issue of intercultural education in our country. There was intercultural education and in all previous years, putting a really important role in supporting children from migrants. But the new reality has created a completely different landscape. Today we all have to understand that we are 'commited' to live in a multicultural society and therefore to have care and interest for these children who come from different countries, have the possibility of providing basic education, language and with the mother tongue and with the language of our country, and above all to have the stimulus of interculturalism to form an organic part of a whole, so that what is happening in countries of Europe is not happening when second and third generation immigrants are excluded from this society, with all the negative consequences of such behaviour. I then come to say that we are indeed serving for the benefit of the wrongdoers in the context of our attitude toward the applicants. The Minister has succeeded, through funds which are absolutely essential at this time of economic durability, to find those funds, so that a system of educational support for the education of the refugees actually works. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, I come to that point regarding the relationship between schoolchildren and the workers in the field of private education, to say that in time there were indeed private schools which actually operated as areas of essential education. We must not forget that these schools at a crucial historic point have been based on people who had them off-white and enlightened schools actually joined the potential and gave a particularly important breath in the field of private education. In recent years, however, in the sense of extreme neoliberalism, what has happened has been to dissolve labour relations and, of course, the problem is not that labour relations are broken down, the problem is that the dignity and freeness of teachers is being dismantled, and that is the great deficit created by this complex political system with schools. That's coming to heal today. In conclusion, I would say that we do not have much room for disagreement here. I believe that there are areas of political dissatisfaction, education does not have this luxury. Let us all realise that education does not in the end need a delusional one, it needs a responsible reason for crashing, I would say, of all those who are involved in public affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u347	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to call for seven minutes to be spent. So, we're not going out when all the talks are from nine to ten minutes. You know how disgraceful the President-in-Office's role is to cut off or cut off the colleague who speaks, but please a little respect in time. Mr Georgios Stylos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u348	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot help talking about the general climate and the environment that exists today and in which the House is called upon to legislate. The government is trying to get away from a suffocating cord that it itself created with its unresolved policy, with moves of impression and rough legislative initiatives. We have an increase in insurance contributions, an increase in taxes, an increase in HIS and a return to the recession. Young scientists are turning abroad to look for work. Students and students are trained in an educational system that gives them degrees and dismissals with no impact. The new generation lives with fear of unemployment and underemployment, no prospects, no frustration everywhere and all at the end of the auction. The answer of the Government is the blind application of the memorandum. From the tearing of the memorial we have passed to the doctrine "the memorial and dry bread". Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill is nothing but an amended version of Law 4027/2011. However, we would expect nothing more than a government that perceives our universities as camping and summer hailing sites. Ladies and gentlemen, Greek-language education abroad does not come only to meet the needs of second and third generation immigrants. We have new flows and new generations of immigrants. Only over the last four hundred thousand fellow citizens have emigrated to other countries in search of work. The data have therefore changed and are constantly changing. But I would like to ask one question: why do we not follow the practice of other countries in relation to the education of their fellow citizens resident in foreign countries? And I want to give this bill some remarks. Firstly, the objective criteria are abolished in relation to coordinators and administrations serving in foreign schools. Here, too, bring back partyism and anxiety. The selection criteria are completely unclear with the subjective factor being dominated by strengthening customer logic. You degrade the level of language from excellent to good. You do not describe the selection procedure or the gravity of the criteria. I ask: Is it true that the training coordinator in Germany, who has been chosen by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government a year ago, does not know German but English? Will he be able to come in touch with foreign agencies and authorities? It is also stated in the Act that sections with at least six pupils will be formed. In Greece of the crisis, in Greece of poverty, can we build sections with only six students? In addition, you are able to recruit contractors in foreign schools. These contractors - who have been in the past, are registered in the service, Minister - go in accordance with the law of the country in which they are serving and have two renewals of their term to appeal to the courts and say 'you have to permanently' or ask for compensation from our country. Do we have the possibility of moving forward with such sloppy moves? Should we see it more accurately and heal and protect Greek taxpayers? Secondly, regarding the conversion of purely Greek schools into bilinguals, it is a positive move. But has there been such preparation? What are the objectives and objectives of Greek-language education? Has there been dialogue, consultation with the teachers, with our relatives? The bill was initially given in April with twenty articles, but for consultation the final bill with over thirty-five articles was for only a week online. Is there any cooperation and cooperation with the competent authorities of the foreign countries? I would ask you to report to me, Mr Minister, an intergovernmental agreement which you have reached. Ladies and gentlemen, the transition to the bilingual school model requires long-term planning with specific stages and timetables, with the cultivation of the basic elements of the cultural identity of our relatives, namely Orthodox faith, history, tradition. It will also play an important role in adapting the analytical programmes in this direction. In this context it is necessary to evaluate the existing forms of Greek-language education. It must be taken seriously into account that the educational authorities of the country of acceptance are a decisive factor in drawing up this policy, because the legal framework that we meet from one country to another is different. And I ask you further: have you exhausted any possibility of funding from the host countries in the context of the transnational agreements in the teaching of the Greek language? Unfortunately, in my personal opinion, there has been no preparation. That's the reality. Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to private education, the government proposal proves its philosophy. You try to change reality by interfering and adapting it to your measures. A world of mediocrity, which reverses excellence, competition, merit, evaluation, pluralism, the possibility of multiple choices. Introduce to private education, medium-education and foreignlanguage all the bad texts of public education. Instead of trying to upgrade public education, you degrade private education. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr President, I'll be done. I want to report, Minister, in relation to the special lawsuit. You have not clarified what criteria you are giving greater moleculosis. Postgraduate or basic degree? All refer to ministerial decisions that will be adopted in the future. And I refer to thousands of students from the respective schools. I am also referring to what has been set up, where many school graduates go to Cyprus to get a seminar or a degree or a postgraduate to work in special education. You need to see this and define exactly the framework in which you operate. In relation to intercultural education, I would like to ask - and to clarify - whether the criteria with which you will be recruiting teachers who work in these schools will be the intransigent criteria of the alternates that apply up to now. And to clarify what will happen with the pre-service of those who work in these specific schools. Finally, I want to say this to you, ladies and gentlemen. There's been a lot of talk of redundancies. Dismissals made in training by the former Government of New Democracy and referred to as specific numbers. I challenge you and invite you to bring in a ministerial decision adopted by the Government of the New Democracy where teachers are made redundant. I'm telling you there's no one at all. And I ask you to investigate it in good faith. And if there is, then I'll lie. If it doesn't exist, you say. So, not to tell a lie many times to make it true. It's not true. I am talking about permanent redundancies, and I am not talking about transfers or mobility.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u349	The 3,500 technical education redundancies weren't redundancies?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u350	Mr. Kourakis, with your question now, we're going to the twelfth.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u351	He says it was a lie!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u352	You abolished seventeen specialties. Where did this world go?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u353	Mr. Style, Mr. Comrade, you're done. We're over nine minutes old. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u354	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u355	It was every day on the streets, didn't you see them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u356	Mr Charalambos Athanasios from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u357	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u358	Excuse me, Mr. Comrade. It's nine and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u359	I'm done, but there's been an intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u360	And because of the intervention?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u361	Aren't you going to finish? He was interrupted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u362	What are you asking for, Mr. Comrade, now? To continue a dialogue...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u363	No, not at all. Mr President, I was very precise. I have asked that a ministerial decision be tabled to the House that will have dismissals of teachers. If you bring her in, then I'll lie. If you don't bring her, you'll have said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u364	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u365	Mr President, I would like to speak for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u366	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u367	I would like to say that in exceptional cases these will be a certain amount of time to avoid the danger you have actually mentioned. The second is that there are, of course, criteria for the selection of coordinators. Who said they were abolished? And as regards whether we have made transnational agreements, I would like to say that now the law is being introduced and it would be oxime to introduce this criterion and to have made transnational agreements. Transnational agreements are already under way with regard to the Land of Hessen. And that's how we're gonna follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u368	Thank you. Mr Athanasios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u369	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will only refer to the amendments relating to the Ministry of the Interior. In other words, they are the amendments tabled by the Minister of the Interior or by colleagues. Because the other issues, as far as the main bill is concerned, were completely exhausted by our rapporteur and the other speakers on our side. First of all, I cannot understand - and no one from the Ministry of Interior is here - since, in these days, the multi-brand plan of the Ministry of Interior will come, which will deal with a large number of issues, including Kallikrates, but also the Ministry, because these amendments had to come and the House should be dealt with at least once a minute by the committee responsible and without the time required for the study and processing. Before I turn to the amendments, I would like to refer to Rule 38 of the bill, Minister, which stipulates that issues of refugee training will be regulated by ministerial decisions. This provision must be seen, Minister, because I think that the ministerial decisions which will be taken to implement this provision will be considered unconstitutional in accordance with Article 16 of the Constitution. I would remind you that Article 16 of the Constitution explicitly stipulates that it is a basic obligation of the state and aims at moral, intellectual, professional and physical education, the development of national and religious consciences and their modulation to free and responsible citizens. So this is a great task, I do not think it should be regulated by a ministerial decision, but by a law with specific regulatory provisions. And I now come to the amendments. I have just been informed that Amendment No 633, Mr President, on childcare centres, has been withdrawn. I think it was wisely done by the Minister and withdrew it, because with these provisions it would be very likely that I would have been able to make it to certain municipalities that had such structures. If that were not the reason for the Ministry, then I must say that it has legislated the Ministry, with this amendment, very roughly. And I say this because cases (a) and (b)(1) of Article 111 of the Kallikrat, but also of Law 3463/2006, had a contradiction, which would create many operating problems, resulting in an arrhythmia. That is why I would say that they must be more careful in legislating such rules and there must be legal supervision. I shall now go to Amendment 639, which deals with the Cesarean Sniper. This amendment concerns the concession of the sniper area. I would like you to see the sequence of provisions and decisions that have been created and why we will be at a dead end. The Skopje site was therefore granted to the Municipality of Cesarean for forty years with the amendment. It is reasonable with this move that they ensure that the space will not be allocated to the HIAD, as it had been released, but was disproved in 2013. According to the provision, the area granted will only be commercially exploited as a space of memory, but also as a park. Previously, the site had been assigned to the Panhellenic Sniper, since 1930, from which it was removed and a judicial struggle between the club of the Sniper Company and the Sniper had begun. On the one hand it was the club, the sniper, and on the other hand OSK and the Municipality of Kessarianis. What's happened? What's the story, and why can't this arrangement pass now? The Greek State was granted a larger area than is provided for in the bill, but this area is included in the largest area - in the target company. Subsequently, with Law 1731/1987, this concession came back to the public. The association challenged the relevant provision of Law 1731/1987 in the courts and finally the Marios Ice by judgment of 20 December 2001 vindicated the Sniper. Then a court struggle, to whom this area belongs, began between the Panhellenic Sniper on the one hand and the Sniper on the other hand and the Municipality of Kessariani on the other. Following a preliminary ruling, Decision 5741/2011 was adopted, which recognised the ownership of the land in the Sniper Association. According to that judgment, it also had a negative action, other than for recognizing and actions for damages, both parties were brought before the Court of Appeal, i.e. the Supplier, in the part where his action for negative actions was dismissed and part of the damages, but also OSK and the Municipality of Cesarean. The decision of the court clears up the question of the recognition of ownership in the symposium, which we said is an area of thirty thousand square feet, but there is within the major area granted, so there is an ambiguity. The opposite side appealed again, which said that no, ownership is not part of the Sniper, but public. An appeal was brought against this decision and pending in the Arena Ice. Therefore, it is not possible today to make a concession to the municipality. The New Democracy - to make it clear - is in favour of being granted and of becoming a monument and a park. We're not talking about that. However, it is wrong how it comes so deliberately, with an amendment, without going through the committee to process it and without having an irrevocable judicial decision to resolve this issue. Therefore, the most correct proposal is for the Minister to see it again. Let him know, Mr Philly, the Minister for the Interior, whether he should withdraw it, because there will be great problems in the future. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Mr President, just a second. I shall now go to the other amendment, which is a delay in the transport of pupils. This amendment regulates the transfer of pupils from non-completion of the relevant competitive procedures within the time limits by the regions. This is essentially a chronic and complex problem, which the governments of the New Democracy have also faced. Indeed, we had the same problem in 2013 in 2013. I think that at that time it was Mr Michelakis who tried because of the pressure, and the lack of regulation at that time, to make a regulation - I think I also co-signed as Minister of Justice - to resolve the issue with the continuation of the previous contract. However, this is not justified today because it has been three years since then and this should have been regulated by law or in any case by means of authorization, because it is foreseen that this provision could also be made by a Presidential Decree. We would therefore vote in favour of this provision, because there is a need, if it came as ministerial and passed through the General Accounting Office of the State, in view of the costs that exist. We will also discuss this with the rapporteur, but this amendment is not justified today, because there are no pressure conditions that existed in 2013 when the matter was raised. Therefore, these three years should have been regulated and passed in Article 132 of the law on local government and it would have been easy to do so. There is time for the Minister of Interior to do so and now with the legislation pending and in consultation, which ends on the 5th, I think. The most recent amendment is the general amendment concerning the harmonisation of professional and family life. I am impressed by the specialization of Mrs Theopevette in such a special subject. Obviously, the Ministerial Amendment is undercover, because it has details that only the Minister could know about them. It is therefore a question of renewing workers' contracts in the programme on the harmonization of working and family life, which is proposed to be done automatically and contracts renewed every year until the completion of the programme. These contracts with an earlier amendment have been exempted by the Ministerial Council. What's going on now? There is a contradiction in paragraph 2 of the amendment with paragraph 1. The Minister should see it because paragraph 2 stipulates that such contracts are not renewed, except in one case. So when? If a great reason is invoked. But this is contrary to paragraph 1. With a simple reading one will see that paragraph 1 has completely different regulation. Paragraph 3 of the amendment is also problematic, Minister. I read it to you and I'm done. It says that if the expiry date of fixedterm employment contracts of these workers is less than thirty working days from the date of renewal of the start of the new fixedterm private employment contracts, the penalties provided for in the existing labour legislation do not apply. In this case, all the consequences of the renewal of those contracts shall be retroactively from the day following the expiry date of the previous ones. So you understand what circumvention can be done with this provision. It's very clear. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy is sympathetic to social issues, worker issues, but it is unacceptable that these should be resolved by delayed parliamentary amendments, which have not been passed by the General Accounting Office of the State. So our proposal is to withdraw this amendment because it is, firstly, delayed and, secondly, it has not been passed by the General Accounting Office of the State. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u370	You have made very specific references to the amendments, which is why there was this great tolerance. You went to 11 minutes. In any case, I repeat the appeal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u371	You're right, Mr. President, but they were tabled at the last minute...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u372	But that's why there was that tolerance. But the seven minutes at 11 minutes are a problem. Mr Anastasios Kourakis from SYRIZA has the floor. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u373	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the objective of the existing bill is not to defend the professional rights of private teachers. The point is, I would say, the defence of the same process of education. This is something that they should understand - and I will explain why - both the parents and the students of private schools, but it also concerns the parents and students of public schools. I will give an example, which concerns the parents and pupils of private schools. We know that schoolchildren are interested, in order to have many registrations, in having many successes in the pan-Hellenic examinations, so in many private schools there is a phenomenon in the last two classes of high school not to teach courses of general education, but essentially to transform these schools into schools, where students are better prepared for the whole of Greece. You understand that this is at the expense of students and the general education they receive. How does that relate to the bill? It relates to the bill, which comes to defend private teachers from arbitrary redundancies, because if a private teacher resisted such an attempt to alter the timeline, you can understand that unnecessarily dismissal was awaited. Also, we all understand that a precarious teacher to whom he is preoccupied at all times, even during the school year, dismissal is an ambiguous teacher, who does not have the proper sense of being able to inspire students in a classroom. Mr Charakopoulos from New Democracy said that the good teacher does not need a permanent clause. I'd say we all know it's best to say that the obedient teacher doesn't need a permanent clause. What makes the bill is to provide safeguards against arbitrary behaviour by the employer and every employer, who has authority. We know that in too many cases the employer's power toward the worker is so great that even maternity is persecuted, that is to say, that the employer sees pregnant women - I am not talking about private teachers - it is not taken on board. However, what is being done here is that teachers are made redundant with a multi-annual offer. Of the redundancies, which have recently been made, which have not been protected by teachers in private schools, 50% have had over thirty years. Yesterday I was told that a fellow teacher with thirty-three years of service was fired. At this point, Minister, I would like to invite you to see whether there is a possibility and to what extent the retrospective protection of all private school teachers who have been made redundant lately is possible and to what extent. As far as this protection is concerned and how this bill is concerned with the parents and students in public schools, I would say that it is also very much about them, as private teachers, who are under the brunt of dismissal, are teachers who oversee, examine, correct writings in the exams, sign an equal degree certificate for students with whom they enter the universities. Therefore, they compete or compete with pupils from public schools, participate in the ADP competitions and to the extent that not all of these titles, for the reasons I mentioned, of course, are also affected by the graduates of public schools. I must tell you that in the Committee on Educational Affairs it was formally mentioned that there were students who did not study and for whom this absence was not recorded in private schools, as it was enough to certify the student's presence only the payment of tuition fees was enough. The excellent score in all cases was going cloud, even for students, who were absent and there are many other things. So you understand that a teacher should feel that he is safe and that he is protected, in the way we discussed. I would accept - you know - what Mr Mavrotas said, that the instrument which would examine the reasoned or undoubted release - could not be the service councils, which he said were, of course, teachers and would not be so impartial. We could discuss an instrument such as those that he said, in which there are legal or judicial members, in order to make the body which controls the legality or not of the misuse of this decision more reliable in terms of dismissal. I must tell you that a large part of private teachers had very bad working conditions and payment conditions, when much of the work they did weekends and hours away from classic hours was not paid, and as I have said, there is also the issue of redundancies, which is tragic. You know, of course, that private teachers, many of them, at least, are fired in June and are re-entered in September, to save school teachers for the summer months, or we have four-month-old redundancies, which means that teachers who put ratings, who sign titles, etc. For a long time they have been blackmailed and threatened with dismissal. I close, with a saying by Dimitris Glinos, which was formulated many years ago and said that "The Greek teacher of all grades was also the victim of multiple slavery, spiritual slavery, economics, moral slavery. There was a time when the teacher, if he wanted to be honest and conscientious, had to be a witness and if he didn't want to be a witness, he had to be a wise collax, unbelieving, unconscious, exploiter." And it closes this article, written in April 1914, as follows: "And it is well known that if you ensure progressively, honestly, educated, enviously taught, interested in his work, constantly excavating and improving it, if you ensure that they teach mentally, morally and economically free and self-fulfillingly, you have already ensured nineteenths of the success of the educational work." These nineteenths of success of the educational project with this bill are best ensured and this is in the interests of the good of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u374	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Constantine Vlassis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u375	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me say that I am pleased to see that the Minister, Mr Philis, is in the Chamber, because today only Mr Peglerin's Deputy Minister, who happens to be colleagues, and we have had years of cooperation at the University of Athens, should be more glamorous in my judgment. So all my inhibitions are now gone. I regret, therefore, to share with you my view that the entire debate on Greek-language education has taken place from the outset on the wrong basis. To explain, I say: In order to be essential and to lead to decisions that really bear fruit, you should first, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, have understood the value and greatness of Greek, Greek and Greek. Unfortunately, however, in the light of the debate on Greek-language education it has become clear once again that either you are unable or refuse to understand that the term "Greek" is neither a simple entry in an official travel document nor, of course, it can be enclosed within the narrow limits of our country. I would like to inform you that the millions of Greeks, which are scattered on the five continents and with whom I personally have close relations, are not the scoundrels of the mother country. The Greek expatriates around the world are no less Greek than attending this Chamber. On the contrary, even though they were forced under difficult conditions to leave the fatherland, they never ceased to love it within them, but also by displaying it with deeds. Their love, of course, you do not recognize it, nor of course their uninterrupted effort to keep the Greek spirit alive, the Greek customs and traditions and, of course, our religion, wherever they may be. On the other hand, you are dealing with them more or less as weights as a simple obligation to cover them at the least cost. The same attitude, of course, you have also shown when we as a New Democracy, acknowledging the role of the relatives, tabled a proposal on the right to vote in their homes. Because we know that these people and want and can offer home, even when they are far away. Because we believe that with the experience they have gained and excellence, which they have made of life, they can, with a clear look, actively participate in the decisions that will finally make this country out of the endless crisis. But you, fearful or simply uninterested, had a different view. So now you are tabling a bill, which is supposed to - take care of the education of the children of Greeks abroad, while in fact, all it does is limit it and reduce it. Can you talk in the explanatory statement about the central role of Greek-language education and the strengthening of Greek communities abroad, but in practice what are you doing? So you have been abolishing the purely Greek-language schools abroad since 2018 and you are replacing them with bilingual schools, obviously, not considering the consequences. It is more widely accepted - and the Greek expatriates of Germany have denounced it - that the existing bilingual schools are at a level equivalent to the right-wing schools of gesamtschule, whose, of course, graduates have access to lower apprenticeship schools. That doesn't surprise me. Why do you want to deprive Greek women of access to higher education? Unless you have the illusion that after 2018 and this measure will not have a blurred shift of students into purely German schools. From there they will claim academic studies, but of course they will have lost their ability to participate in the Greek spirit. And all this, of course, in the midst of an unpleasant economic situation that forces more and more of our compatriots, young Greek scientists to take the road of the hostilities, wanting to offer their families the future they deserve. Believe me, this decision, not slightly, took its heart, nor does it imply their intention to break the ties with their homeland and raise their children in another way. Unless, of course, you deprive them of that possibility. I know, you will tell me that the final objective is to streamline expenditure so that Greece can stand on its feet and accept it. Honestly, I would accept whatever sacrifices that were made, but the arrangements you propose cancel it on their own, because while they essentially close the purely Greek schools abroad for economic reasons, at the same time you promote in the excerpt tables of their external teachers with a minus, not taking advantage of Greek teachers who have entered into a marriage abroad and clearly can take such positions without the corresponding fee. I could refer to a lot of articles in this bill that we disagree with, for example, the vague criteria and discounts in the process of selecting coordinators abroad, the lack of reasonable efforts to permanentize teachers in private education, the regulation on irregular diplomas from TEs, which raises reasonable questions. Unfortunately, time is not enough to deepen to all that ultimately leads us to vote against the draft law. I have chosen to focus on the subject of Greek-language education to demonstrate how you are dealing with things: a rough, biasing, without historical memory and self-criticism, and of course without any long-term plan. I honestly wonder now that your so-called moral advantages have collapsed, now that your so-called social policy has gone for a walk, now that your red lines are discoloured and the Greeks will be called to pay the inflated account of your void promises, what new trick you would invent to try to convince the Greek people that you are the ones who are fit to rule the country. We're just waiting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u376	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Dimitris Sevastakis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u377	Mr. President, wait a minute...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u378	Minister, with all due respect, this is the third time you have intervened in commenting on a speaker. But we can't go on like that, though. Keep your right to make a speech, an intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u379	It'll be just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u380	Okay, but everyone who says something, if we're going to comment on it, we're not doing anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u381	We have said, Mr Vlassi, a thousand times that people who are seconded abroad without a tax. We've said it a thousand times!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u382	Where's the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u383	But it's not possible with the bill. It's done by a call. Do you understand what I'm saying to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u384	Your bill puts the obstacles to the secondment of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u385	In any case, they are the ones without a fine. And secondly, bilingual schools are imported not for economic reasons, but because they are in the interests of students.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u386	Mr. Sevastakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u387	Thank you, Mr President, and colleagues. I will overcome the fact that this claim of ownership and national sensitivity and a self-conception of the tools has been made, and I will remind you, Minister, that an idea by Milton Friedman after the disaster in New Orleans was to give the poor students a loan to study in private schools, instead of repairing and restoring the demolished public schools. The program has ended, and the students’ learning experience has ended. They objected to the educational system. It is a great conquest, cross-party conquest, the dividing distribution of education, which our country has won, and until a few years ago, the self-evident right of a poor student of a mountain community to study, and if he has a talent to develop his great skills, that is, the educational system to give this possibility, this element was a common assumption cross-party. It wasn't the prerogative of a party. This has, unfortunately, been weakened by an economy, by a accounting perception, which says that the cognitive object must have saved an economic translation well. That is, while knowledge expands the objects, while applications, industrial or other applications of cognitive objects are expanded, we are late in introducing an economic cut in objects. I think this is a huge anachronism. Introducing standard, introducing ideology without even assimilating it. In these circumstances, therefore, some legislative acts have been taking place for a few months with multi-thematics - it is true - bills, at least, in the field of education. They are multi-thematic, because it is an extremely complex educational system, starting from work, that goes to purely organizational, ends up in the purely learning fields. It is also a system with too many defects, arrhythmias, inequality and inequality within it, organisational and other inequalities. The Ministry of Education is therefore obliged to legislate in a multi-thematic way and is sometimes criticised. I think we should see the legislature and not get locked up in a criticisle. In these circumstances, therefore, a bill on private education comes under the terms of the law on intercultural or cultural exchanges, Greek education in foreign schools and, of course, it also has aspects relating to higher education or special education. I want to stay on an observation, an misinterpretation, an extrapolation that's happening. It is not a bill in which the pole of private and public education conflicts. It's public space. A public space is set up with a common regulatory framework, which has two appearances, private and public. I am also saying this with emphasis - we cannot do a smack of all the parameters that make up the two fields. Private education employs excellent members of a high level of mental and educational education and there are also private schools which establish their identity on the disciplines and qualities and not on the student's flattery. Of course, there are others. Same happens in public. It will be the concessionary colleague, who does not close, who does not organise his tools, by paraphrasing or by exploiting the quote of Glenos, read by Mr Kourakis, who does not commit himself. He's a concessional, he's a perpetrator. All these phenomena exist. We, as a political system, must compose a field of safety, quiet and research, because the teacher whether we want it or not is investigating it. It's a research event, the educational event. In the classroom, he constantly reconstructs his tools. In the class he wins and resets his contact with the students' recruits. Under these conditions, then, we need to see this legislative proposal, which concerns private education, the Ministry. On the issue of special education, I think it is a humanitarian conquest that the Ministry has decided to strengthen the special treatment. The graduates of the good sections of Thessaly and PAMAK are not enough. However, there are educational structures that support high-level postgraduate studies. Postgraduate here doesn't state it. You're taking tests to attend a postgraduate. It is a test - and I say it about lovers of "excellence" - to join and become a master in our own educational system. There are, therefore, colleagues with skills acquired and developed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'd like to close. I do not have time to expand too much in the other fields, for example in Greek-language education. It is a strategic choice for our country, a country with small language numbers - we are a small country, a small people with a few Greeks - it is very important to invest in exporting, in the dispersal of language, in Greek-language. Under these conditions, I think we should see the very wide-ranging proposal for the education of refugees, which is the most important parameter, assimilating and exchanging tensions. So that is what I think they form the identity of this piece of legislation, which I think will also establish a promotion of the educational demands, but it will also be followed by others. After all, we are here to work on educational demands, because education is what we want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u388	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Constantine Tasoulas from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u389	Mr President, the legislation on education is being discussed at the same time as the country has been on a great adventure - for some time now obviously - and at the same time, within an ambiguity in Kallithea, in the dark, in secret and indisputably, new television licences are being prepared. And we learn from this ambri, which in Greek means a war sanctuary, where there is complete isolation from the outer environment...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u390	Charming means.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u391	In this case, then, the ammonia is fleeing rumours and we are now learning that two licences have been issued. I ask: What would it harm us to know that these permits belong to the master of this and to the master of this? Is it possible through a dark process to light up? Is it possible through such a procedure to create pluralism? And if, as each objective observer admits, the issue of media information in Greece suffered and was in a large, protracted stagnation, the correction of this pending is done by a new mistake, which undermines pluralism and humiliates those who want to claim the right to inform the Greek people? Is it possible to expect one through this process - even the present Greek people, who sees all this with the perception of pressure from their economic situation and do not see it with the tension and humour and incorruption that was seeing things before - how, through this darkness, they will come out of light? I think not. In this context, therefore, Mr Kammenos's current left-wing government and his companionship attempts to elicit her own myth, characterizing the previous ones - as Mr Philis did - in a large way, I confess, but he did - as a government memorandum. You, Mr. Philly, didn't you vote and sign a memorandum? You're a government memorial, so. Where does this story end? When are we going to adapt to reality and understand what happened in the country? And what happened was beyond us all. We were unable to subdue the clientele. The client state, ladies and gentlemen, is not a creation of the Creation. It is a creation of the creation of the modern Greek state. And this client state served less or more than anyone on the left, obviously, which, in the wording of the Congo - to mention also my authors and other factors - watched badly and adopted every customer's and consumer's demand to be at the forefront and could also have a chaos in the political scene of post-government Greece. And you had a chamois around 3% and 4% when you were crushed by the client state, but, today, you are trying to revive and sustain, at the same time as you pretend you are tearing it down. You are the 'circuit' of the client state, which we obviously served as well. And the talker served it. I have the courage to say it. However, when the country broke into the spiral of bankruptcy, some of us understood and took our responsibilities and ignored the political cost. Within this client-like curse of the country - which was not only a curse, it also had moments, it had plenty of democracy after the republic, it also had proper external orientations, it also had a rise in the standard of living - which none of us was able to win, and there was never a demonstration against the rupture in the square of the Constitution - I say - education also had that fate. And the fate of post-Multipulation education was a lasting vertebral in convenience. That's how I'd describe education after the post-multiple. And somehow one could sneeze this sober to ease, but the whole system, the whole environment, encouraged convenience, encouraged demagogy, encouraged the reduction of difficulties in the name of a supposedly equality, in the name of ease of access to universities, in the name of the convenience of obtaining a degree. Because demagogy and populism were not in the economy, they were not in politics. She was in education, she was everywhere. We, ladies and gentlemen of the Left, led the country to bankruptcy at a rate of bruise, when you were calling 'no bolts, roads' underneath'. That's our difference. And because you're talking about systemic media, I'm going to tell you that the New Democracy does not defend the media that was conquered when it was ruling. They've always taken it down. The New Democracy defends pluralism and legitimacy. And if you want to know, those media, which you call systemically - which systemically? - these media have been cultivating for thirty years - what today is being seen in the hands of a government which is using anti-democratic and anti-constitutional methods - through their demagogicism and their populism a culture for the Greek people such as that which has made him fall satellite in the hands of SYRIZA today and in the hands of tomorrow - your new great opponent - Mr. Sora, who promises - and to pay attention to him, is a serious opponent of yours - to share 600 billion to the Greek people. And hundreds of Greek citizens go, watered by the populism of the Trans-Society and our helpless defeat him, and applaud him. Take note of this new leader of the country who comes as the creation of this excellent period that you so excellently represent. The education bill was analysed by our rapporteurs. And the areas we are opposed to have been analysed. I shall sum up in the last minute, which I abusively exploit, in the field of hostility which you are showing towards private education. Minister, you must know that public education in Greece was not the creation of the first revolutionary constitutions, because they left this jurisdiction in the private sector and in municipal intervention, in the Community intervention that was strong in Greece. For the first time the Constitution of 1927 speaks of the Ministry of Church and Public Education. The six - year - old and six - year - old school system came to the new, free Greece from the enslaved Greece of Epirus, Eptanos, Macedonia, Izmir, Chios, because there the merchants, who fled abroad, financed important private schools such as Zosmia, Kaplenios, Marucheios in my homeland, which financed with a family of successful entrepreneurs in Venice, Paristrian Hegemonies, Alexandria, Trieste, everywhere. This performance of private education in Greece also came to free Greece slowly and was imposed on the Bavarian system, which was first implemented in Greece after 1833. The church and education supported by the successful Greek merchants abroad, produced the neo-Greek myth at the place of the Byzantine myth and harvested the Greek Revolution. Today, you, the 'circuit' of the populism of the Transnationalism, are trying, in observance of your commemorative obligations, to implement a policy which is a condensation of the populism of the Transnationalism. You will not succeed, because in a country that is in the European Union - which you too want to keep - none of the systems you choose can prevail. You'll break your face. But please don't let the country break its face. Adapt to a European, competitive country where discrimination and performance are rewarded and are not punished.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u392	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister, George Katrugalos, has asked for the floor. He'll also be presenting a legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u393	Thank you very much, Mr President. Just before I enter the main object of my speech, which concerns employment relations in private education, allow me a legislative improvement in the number 638/26-8-2013 amendment, the competence of our Ministry, which regulates the one-off of civil servants. We had not extended this to the welfare institutions of civil servants of public law, who always follow public law regulations. That is, therefore, specified in paragraph 3 of Article 2 of the amendment, namely, that those relating to the Social Welfare Fund also concern the welfare institutions of civil servants. I'm tabling it for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u394	I must say that I was impressed by the opposition parties' opposition to the particularly modest and protective provisions of the Ministry of Education on the employment status of private teachers. It is obvious that private education cannot be in the Ministry of Trade or the Ministry of Labour, because education is not a commodity but a public and indeed a social asset. This is not a feature of the 1975 Constitution, which, in fact, dedicates a separate paragraph, number 8, bringing supervision specifically on the labour relations of private teachers into constitutional obligation. Already Law 3855/1958 had special arrangements for private teachers. In fact, I was amazed at this: the fact that complaints about the employment relationship of private teachers have also been raised in this Chamber and in the media, particularly neoliberal, as a Soviet regulation. Those who have made this criticism seem to be ignoring that, once the revised European Social Charter has been ratified, the rule that has, to date, been generally applicable to our labour law, according to which the termination of the contract of employment is inappropriate. From now on, any redundancies in the private sector must be justified. So what does the Ministry's bill mean to respond - in addition to this general obligation to justify complaints of employment relationships - to a constitutional check, which the Council of State has interpreted in a number of decisions? For file reasons I will submit for Parliament's minutes one of them. It says, therefore, that the strong regulatory intervention by the legislator in the organisation and operation of private schools, and in particular in the service of their staff, is intended to serve the interests of education and, in particular, to ensure private teachers with stable working conditions, is a constitutional reason for the public interest so that they can carry out their duties. This is a common place both in case-law and in journalists. For reasons, again, I will submit a relevant opinion signed by the PASOK Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Loverdos, along with our joint teacher, Dimitris Tsatsos. [[At this point, the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr Georgios Katrugalos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This is precisely what is, after all, one of the specific features of the European social model, that we are dealing with education not as a private asset, but as a public and social asset. And right there is one of our main differences with full laissez-faire - let's say - Anglo-Saxon capitalism. I would remind you that one of the reasons for the resonance of Sanders' message was precisely his emphasis on the fact that it must be public or at least free of charge to provide training. And he found fertile ground, precisely because at the moment students in the United States are either excluded or overcharged on the basis of loans given there to be able to attend colleges and universities. Attention, however, in Greece, we do not only have this general issue of the conflict between those who want to buy uncontrolled, even where social goods exist, and those who want to defend another model. Unfortunately, in Greece we have the characteristics of this parasitic and client-private capitalism, which is now easily denounced by the New Democracy and the PASOK on its basis, namely, the small rumours that were made to become an intake, for example, in the public sector, precisely to keep the basic feature of this system of "popularisation" and interactivity, which was the symbiotic relationship between private and public interests at the top. To say things by their name, the existence of schoolchildren, who, for their successive and continuous illegality, had protection from the political system, often at the highest level of the political system and these continuing illegalities were not controlled, precisely because they are the object of customer protection. Let me tell you here that if this is not an exercise of peculiar humor that escapes me, the statement by the school directors, which I read today, which very much results from the audits of the Labour Inspectorate, that it is a working paradise in private schools, is completely inaccurate. The exact opposite happens. There is no way that we have not found any illegality in those controls that have been carried out by the Labour Inspectorate. In fact, even in the large schools, there is a substantial effort not even to control, to ban the kind of labour inspectors. And precisely because we do not want with the police force to enter a place and violate educational peace, many times our inspectors are forced to go and do checks when schools accept parents in the context of visits. And in all these cases we find illegality that either leads to the work of private teachers or to the baptism of private teachers as workers with a different status, precisely so that schoolchildren get away from the obligations of private education. To conclude, this protection of the old political system is not about systematic illegality only in the operation of private schools. When he was Minister of Administrative Reform and was responsible for legality in public education, a series of complaints concerning irregular or illegal private schools, which had to be checked on their legality, combined with complaints that many holders of these qualifications had positions in NERIT, the Ministry of Education. I am putting these classified and confidential letters, which have been left without an investigation, as I was told by OELE, which came back with two similar letters when I took up these duties. Obviously, I sent the relevant files to the public administration inspector and as a result of these checks carried out - and not even the previous one - the Ministry of Education's current leadership was able to activate the Giannakou law and bring about the restoration of legality in this area. [[At this point, the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Georgios Katrugalos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practices.]] To conclude, I am curious about the attitude of the opposition parties if they do not vote for these completely modest regulations that are moving within our constitutional culture to defend the social good of education. Unfortunately, I am not surprised by the attitude of the New Democracy, because in this recent ménage à trois, where the traditional representatives of the New Democracy party, those who voted for Law No.6682/1977-Ruley, is actually the one who introduces the regulations which the Ministry of Education is now reintroducing - they are awkwardly following this, in my opinion, rather than the political marriage of far-right and neoliberal. However, the example of our own policy is also in this area of education, which we everywhere characterise in favour of the social state, in favour of the weak, in favour of the social system as a whole, because everything that the Greek people need is, in the end, in favour of the whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u395	Thank you, Minister. Mr Anastasios Publicis from the New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u396	Mr President, I would like the floor to make some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u397	Here, Mr. Philly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u398	I'm making two legislative improvements. One concerns arrangements for teachers of the lecturers of HEIs and TEI Application Teachers, and the other concerns issues of holidays in the field of schools. They're clarifications.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u399	I would ask that they be distributed. Mr Anastasios Prussakis has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u400	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on Monday night the Director of Athens, a hard-working fellowman of ours, was subjected to an unjust assault at the time of his duty by people who are unconscious of the affliction and danger and who have no respect for human existence. I called yesterday and this morning I visited the "401" Director of Trochaia Athens, George Diamantopoulou, who, on the evening of last Monday, fell victim to an unjustly assault by a group of hoodmen at the time the pedestrians were pedestrians were pedestrians and co-ordinating the wheelmen of the central sector, thus attempting to keep Athens up on the road after a related rally in the capital, whose traffic had been disrupted. I hope that the unfair attack at the expense of the Director of Rail is detected, that his health is restored and that the unacceptable image against people at risk and protect the Athenian society and the country as a whole is not repeated. We need to pass on the message that the center of Athens cannot evolve into unintentional lawlessness. You have weakened the police, you have refreshed it, above all you have discouraged it and demolished the dark and curious circles that have been afflicting Athens and the country for decades. Our President, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, on the 20th of April in his pre-dated security order, said to you: You abolished the Delta Group against the demand of SYRIZA and Ruvikon youth, thus making Ruvik perish today. He knows that there are no rapid intervention and reaction teams. Our democracy, ladies and gentlemen - we all know - is not persecuting the minds of the citizens, nor is our police, which is its main pillar. Only citizens' criminal offences are persecuted. Our democracy, however, is undergoing major confrontations and major attacks and is suffering serious turbulence. In your days, a significant explosive mixture will be born. What will happen in the country will not have a previous history. Unfortunately, we are all outdated and do not react, and as we must and as we have sworn. On the occasion of this attack, I would like to make an appeal, a proposal as an honorary Chief of the Greek Police. I would even suggest to the Bureau two simple things. The parties here in the Greek Parliament must deplore and strongly condemn the attack, because today the Minister of Education did not have a single word to say about an officer who turns night on the streets of Athens and supports this society. And the second one. I propose that Parliament's delegation should visit the Director of Trojan Athens in order to send a message that the Greek Parliament is nervous and reacting. The decision is yours, Mr President. Let's move on now. Once again, the government proves the curiosity but also the lightness with which it approaches and tackles serious issues relating to education. This time it brings to Parliament a bill on Greek-language education abroad, which has nothing to do with it, as it contains unnoticed analogies, while in fact it aims at further degradation until the removal of foreign schools and even from 2018. The government, loyal to the doctrine of non-essential communication, seeks to show that it is interested in the education of Greeks abroad. In reality, however, once again, it shows the willingness to harmonize 'left' with a number of photographic provisions contained in this draft law that we are discussing. You are trying to communicate a profile of a government that is interested in the education of Greeks abroad. Unfortunately, for you, however, you will always follow the fiasco print with the plot that would host the Greek school complex of Munich. Personally on this issue - and you know it, Mr Secretary of State for Education - as a member of the Greek Parliament, I had taken numerous parliamentary actions, making three reports of a parliamentary nature and a timely question. Despite the fact that the leadership of the Ministry of Infrastructure, but also of education, were making sure they gave me reassuring answers, the evil was done and we lost the opportunity for a unique cultural and cultural investment of fifteen thousand square meters in the heart of Germany. If anything, this disastrous development had a huge negative impact on global Hellenism and on the Greek state, both symbolically and in essence. We are essentially talking about the private school that would cover the teaching needs of the children of the family of Munich, which is now about thirty-five thousand Greeks there. But I would like to say that there would be a house for primary schools, high school and high school. But that was not possible. But that was not the only flaw in the government. You did not care, despite our points, to define by law on May 20, the day of birth of Socrates, as the day of Greek and Greek culture. So since you cannot do these simple actions, how do you want to be believed that you are seeking to bring about the education of Greeks abroad? However, it is not just a question of the education of the homosexuals, even in the rough way that you are approaching. Our priority must also be the right of Greeks to vote abroad. You deprived it of it. The draft law has not been discussed. The amendment we tabled in the debate on the so-called electoral system rejected it. You do not want the Greeks abroad, who are no different from us, to vote. Reading the bill - to get back to it - we find a pass-on of various provisions filled with gaps. To become more specific in terms of bilingual schools, these generally do not have the acceptance of the family as unimportant. There is a fear that the homosexuals will prefer purely foreigners, for example in Germany, so the result will be rather than keeping strong ties with the family, cutting off the existing ones as well. It should be stressed that the framework of the bilingual schools is not described in the bill. They let it be handled by the government after two years. The aim should be bilingual school, which will give access to higher education in both the host country and the country. We have to admit, however, that the government is consistent on one point. Once again, it incorporates into a bill no matter what. We are talking today about Greek-language education and there are provisions in the bill and in private. It is no surprise that the Ministry of Education, dominated by its ideas against the private sector, is trying to break down two main advantages of private education, the possibility of selecting and treating educational staff and the possibility of modulation in the curriculum applied. The new regulation essentially simulates private teachers in schools. The administration of each school from now on will not be able to safeguard the quality of the educational service that it provides students, as it will not be able to replace a teacher, regardless of whether he or she performs. It does not protect the good teacher, but the one who enters the classroom and does not respond to his duties conscientiously. Above all, it does not support entrepreneurship, Minister, but is besieged. You don't solve problems, but you're complicating things. Do you want to go state-of-the-art? The States of Europe must be structured and serve the private initiative. She's giving life to the place. It gives jobs, but also employment, not the state that is unfortunately always bad services, with exceptions. With regard to the amendment on special education, since, indeed, we have all accepted an information war, people who have absolutely nothing to do with special education will be able to teach from now on. So the conclusion of this bill as a whole is that the Left Government once again tries to play small-party games with education. That is why we are voting against. But you must know that you can no longer deceive the people and you will soon be faced with their verdict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u401	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u402	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u403	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u404	A little clarification, because a personal report was made. I do not think that the Step of the House can host talks at all levels of science. There is a agenda. Mr. Publicsakis spoke a long time ago on various issues, including the incident at the expense of the commander of Trojana, and told me that I did not make a public statement. I wouldn't take the floor to talk. The Government has raised its position on this matter. I have taken Mr Diamandopoulos - and I am a little infringing the principles I am saying this - I have spoken to him, I have wished him to respond to the adventure that exists now and, of course, I have condemned all these actions. I am sorry to have a micro-party exploited issue like this, which we have all condemned. We must not make a convict bid from the Step of the House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u405	Minister, the derogations from the agenda were made in the speeches of most colleagues. The Bureau withdrew the derogation and the speech by Mr Prussakis, knowing that it expresses, in his own sensitivity, his support for his injured colleague and I think the Bureau has done well. Mrs Sioriopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u406	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are called upon to vote on a bill, which is the first step in the reform and overall upgrading of the basic pillar of our democracy, which is education. I urge you, Minister, to speed up the process, to come to the other bills soon, because, as it turns out, you have a good point of view. We welcome this draft law, which raises many issues relating to education in a substantial and above all necessary way and gives solutions to urgent issues. I consider the reaction of all those who have affected their interests and the regime they have imposed for many years in our country to be reasonable. The reaction of the New Democracy is also true, because the Right Party is the womb of everything that we experience every day in our education and not just. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill under discussion is a necessary and autonomous legislative initiative, which is not only reversed by national and social dialogue, but also enriches it, as it either solves chronic problems or sets the framework for addressing modern and immediate challenges. The redefinition of the Greek-language education of our relatives, the dispersal of Greek-language education and the attempt to establish bilingual schools with main languages in the Greek and that of the host country, through the pursuit of transnational agreements, beyond their self-evident national, cultural and economic importance, also responds to the constant demand by the Greeks of the dispersion to join the host societies, as well as to maintain their linguistic and cultural links with the country. As far as intercultural schools are concerned, it is undeniably necessary to adapt them to the current conditions while taking advantage of the valuable experience we have gained from the past. In this way, relations between different cultural groups can be established with a view to removing inequalities and social exclusion. With regard to the provision of education for the refugees, with the creation of islands of condolences and knowledge, solidarity and respect for the universal values that the Greek society is decisively demonstrating to the contempt and victims of war. With regard to the restoration of the supervisory role of the Ministry of Education in the field of private education, we must recognise that it is achieved to restore constitutional legitimacy to the functioning of private schools. A characteristic is the reaction and treatment of the New Democracy and its companions for expensive private schools, while no voice was heard about night schools, where the children of the people are campaigning daily and striving to learn letters. Ladies and gentlemen, the careful study of the arrangements of this bill shows that this is a coherent framework of mature and necessary changes in the field of education. These changes come to be added to those that we have legislated over the last year and are already paying off unprecedented and impressive fruit. The fact that the most skeptical will see the opening of schools being accompanied for the first time by the direct disposal of books to students and early staffing marks the definitive cessation of the free fall and the categorisation of our education. The bankruptcy of the neoliberal choices of the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK is forcing their rapporteurs to fight backs in order to cover their deadlocks. Most importantly, however, it proves the insurmountable forces of the Greek society, which is justified by its political choices, adopts the parallel program of our Government, the Government of the Left, and finds the roads out of the crisis. And let us not forget that education is the country's main lever of development. We're going to fight this fight and win it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u407	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Ioannis Shahinides from Golden Dawn has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u408	Mr President, may I ask for clarification on the legislative improvement that has now been submitted by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u409	Mr. Mavrosh has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u410	The legal improvement which has now been shared between us and which relates to Article 30 for the education establishments - the second rather - refers to the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 of Article 30 that, in the event of their employment on Sundays, the words 'and holidays' are added. Yesterday we had shared a legislative improvement which was just eradicating the phrase 'and holidays'. What's going to happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u411	The last one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u412	So we're going back to the original version of the bill...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u413	The last one. It was a failure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u414	Yesterday you gave us a legislative improvement...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u415	Yesterday you removed it and today you bring it back.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u416	Yesterday you removed that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u417	Is this the same article we always talk about? Because I don't have it in front of me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u418	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u419	It's true what we've deposited right now, yeah. We're talking about a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u420	It's not a word, there's a whole regime behind it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u421	It simply says that "in case of their employment on Sundays and holidays"...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u422	Yesterday you removed it and today you bring it back.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u423	I mean, yesterday...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u424	If you read it, it's a series of words. It has been mentioned twice, it was wrong to formulate and correct it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u425	Was yesterday's law school wrong and we're correcting it today?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u426	We're fixing it. It was in there, you'll see. It does not change anything on the substance either yesterday or today, it is exactly the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u427	It's changing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u428	Read all of the wording, don't just look at the emoluments, and we're talking later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u429	Because my speech today was on the basis of yesterday's legislative improvement, and now I see that this is changing, which is why I am addressing this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u430	It doesn't change the thing, I repeat.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u431	Do you mean - as it is formulated - on Sundays and holidays rather than on holidays? Think about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u432	The issue of holidays does not need to be formulated. It's clear they're paid for the holidays that the law says. There is a question of determining the vacations for the care centres, what are the holidays. That is a matter of decision, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u433	What about summer, Minister? And July?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u434	No, that's what I mean. The determination of the school holidays is neither the fifteen days in Easter, nor the fifteen days at Christmas, all days, nor three months in the summer. There is a special ministerial decision, which sets a much smaller range of holidays. That's why we mention it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u435	In other words, will the summer departments be paid with an increased hourly wage?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u436	No, it's not raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u437	The way you formulate it, that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u438	That's what he says.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u439	If you read it, you will see that it is not the case. But the whole article to read it, not just the legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u440	Because I have the whole article, that's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u441	Read it all to see that it's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u442	Because I'm trying to make it quite clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u443	I repeat that the Ministerial Decision limits the range of school holidays in relation to the range of school breaks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u444	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u445	Mr. Shahinides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u446	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will not be able to resist the temptation and, like Mr Pelogrinos in his speech, called Mr Fortsakis a "Mr. Fortsakis", so I too am entitled to call the Minister a "Mr. Memorandum" because it also happens that I do not have a degree. In our draft law at first sight, it makes a huge impression and only the title of this draft law "Greek-language education" from a coexistence which has done all the necessary actions and practices, which are of an ethnic nature, from a government that did everything it could, nothing in Greek, in any form of education, from kindergarten to higher education institutions, from a coexistence that dissolves education every day, as it dissolves the national and social fabric of our country. The question, therefore, of the education of the Greeks of the diaspora is indeed central. That is what the explanatory statement says. Greece is the great absent in the lower Italy, in the northern continent - for us northern Epirus, for some other southern Albania - and for eastern Rome. It would be a good thing at some point to see that. Since 1960 some efforts have been made, but only at primary level, and only in countries where Greek immigrants went, namely, mainly in Germany, Australia, but that was not enough. However, your own intervention, gentlemen of the conflict, has to do not by making education more Greek, not by being in the context of the Greek culture of the values of Hellenism and Orthodoxy, but by being in the context of the new order of things, colourless, meaningless, without spirit and without substance. Mr. Undersecretary, you mentioned that you visited schools abroad in Greek. I'll talk to you on my own experience. I've studied and grown up in Germany. All Greek schools were clearly paid by the Greek state. As far as the church was concerned, every Sunday we expected the Church of Catholics to end, we were paying and renting the space, and when they were built and purchased a plot and built a Greek Orthodox Church, it is not lifelong in the Greek community, but for ninety years, contrary to which here in Greece you legislate to pay the Greek state for the education of foreigners and foreigners. It's a huge difference. Finally, you must harmonize yourself, as is the European Union. We cannot in the European Union where there is Hellenism to pay for the education of the Greeks, where there is Hellenism to pay so that we can practice our religious duties in Greece as well. It's unacceptable. And, of course, all of this is defined by the Minister, who is referring to a regulator of issues on which they should consult and decide scientists with particular knowledge on this subject. However, instead of this, the Minister determines which school units will operate abroad to the way in which the coordinators will be designated. At the beginning of reading, the government's real purpose for the extinction of Greek education and the success of nationalism seems to be apparent. In the articles there is an indiscriminate repetition of ministerial decisions and other paragraphs. In this draft law, repetition is a mother of all evil. The draft law finds intentional mistakes to create in-house training armies. We are now not talking about a draft law, but about a series of ministerial decisions. By the end of September, the first reception classes will be operated in the large hospitality centers, such as Elionas. This assessment is made by officials from the Ministry of Education, who are prepared in addition to schools to undertake training of about twenty-two thousand illegal immigrants. But there is one issue here, Mr. Undersecretary. The co-operating NGOs have been informed by the Ministry of Education itself that they should submit by 15 September to the Institute of Education Policy their intention to cooperate and then to the area in which they will be active. The Ministry declares ready to proceed from week to week in an invitation of teachers to the four-hour programme, which it has prepared and which relates to mathematics, Greek language, mother tongue and another foreign language of choice. Assuming that the state budget has no burden, it could be considered a temporary solution, because they were supposed to stay in Greece temporarily. However, other issues arise. The one who will teach in their native language will also perform a debt translator in the other lessons? Shouldn't he know a foreign language? And most important of all, illegal immigrants come, according to the statistics of the Statistical Office and their records, from seventy-seven different countries. So, will you be able to cover with teachers people who can teach in seventy-seven different languages? Let's go to the part that the Minister mentioned about the money to be made available for training them. We're talking about 7 million euros. This money, as you can see, is very little and I believe you will bring us too many amendments to ask for more money for the education of illegal immigrants. Because I happen to be a freelance professional, I've learned one thing to do right in my life, to make repeated verification of accounts - and Mr. Undersecretary, I don't have the number. Of the EUR 7 million for eight hundred fifty establishments in which the course is to take place, an amount of EUR 8,235 is obtained, which, if divided by twelve, those who are the months, that is, an amount of EUR 826. With this money, 826 euros should be paid for by those who will train on every hot spot, where lessons are to be learned. No numbers, Mr. Undersecretary. We do not know whether these figures and figures will be requested from the state budget, as I have said before, that is, whether you will get any more funds to fill these gaps. We are vertical and absolute on it. No free training to a illegal immigrant. Immediate expulsion to the countries from which they come. The Greek state should not provide anything at all, except those imposed by humanism, to provide some first aid and nothing more. Thousands, however, of small Greeks - and I am closing down, Mr President - while meeting the preconditions - have heard this repeatedly today - stay out of childcare facilities, namely 30%. Their positions, of course, take them illegally, children of illegal immigrants. Firstly, because the parents of these children, as I mentioned before, who either are staying illegally or in a legal status with a temporary leave, do not declare their actual income, because they naturally come from black work. So what's going on? Unlike the Greeks, they meet the criteria, which are income-income, and so poorer are presented than the Greeks and they enter the children's stations. This is where Article 16 is violated. Our Chief and some competitors mentioned paragraph 2 of the article, but Article 16(4) is also violated, which expressly states that all Greeks have the right to free education at all its levels in state education. That's not happening. So you're blatantly violating the Constitution. We have a proposal to make. When and when there is a well-considered revision of the Constitution, where there will be too many proposals, a paragraph should be added to Article 16, which clearly states that priority at all levels of education should first be given to the Greeks in the genus and, if there are other available posts, to be given on certain criteria, as the Greek state considers appropriate, of course. But not to foreigners, only to those who are legally resident, pay taxes and respect the Greek state, which hosts them. The Golden Dawn once again states that it will be next to the Greeks and next to the Orthodoxy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u447	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Mr Mitafidis, from SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u448	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate itself requires me to give some answers to questions that have been raised. First of all, I address Mr Stylion, who, with the emphasis, has told us about the false claim that there have been educational redundancies in the days of the Government of New Democracy and PASOK. I would therefore refer him to the 52529/D2/4-2014 decision of the "elector" - I would call him - Minister of Education, Arvanitopoulos, who signed the dismissal of the first eighty-five teachers of Vocational Training, and their payroll was interrupted. At the same time, of course, they remained in hostage a thousand seven hundred eight teachers. Fifty specialties were removed from Technical Vocational Education and Mr Arvanitopoulos, loyal to his authorities, opened a private IEK in Piraeus. I'm tabling this in the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Mitafidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Secondly, it seems to me that public officials, and even high-ranking officials such as Mr. Publicos previously, are being blamed for the Greek state from which they lived, and indeed held high-level posts. I would like to say to him that the dismantling of the DELLTA team has been imposed by the fact that one of the kamikazi motorcycles has literally crippled a glorious fighter of anti-digit resistance, the long-lived by the safety of the junta Angela Koutsoumoupou. She ran into her without any reason. I want to say that we will not come back, at least as long as the country is in our hands, when Father Mitsotakis told police officers "You are the state". We will not have a police state with our own governance, without that we do not condemn this terrible attack on the man who was trying to regulate traffic, the Chief of Trojans. In my opinion, it is a disgraceful demagogic exploitation to abandon us for this fact and to create the image that the citizens are at the mercy of the uncontrollable. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to raise a few points. Our struggle and anguish are for self-evident, for what an ex-Secretary of State for Education and Participation, Nikos Gessoulis, called the "revolution of self-evident". Unfortunately, a revolution is needed, even for the self-evident, that is to say, to be able to start schooling without these traditional, unfortunately, classical shortcomings, which have, of course, increased the years of the memoranda. I would like to raise an issue that I have raised several times. I also put it in the presence of Mrs Giannakou. The country is currently in a state of tolerance and financial compelling. Why at the time of the 'fresh cows', in a country where there has been blood for public education, has the poor relative of the budget remained for decades? Will you ever give us any explanations? There was, therefore, a deliberate policy to undermine public education by the crumbs of the state budget. We pay this very much, because there was one option: we should strengthen the other, the opposing part, the private part. I would like to say to you that I consider a title of honour - for I am sorry for the personal reference, because I have an experiential relationship with this bill - and not a cold one what the schoolmasters' representative said to me, that 'what you failed in 1975, you have now achieved it'. That's exactly why we came to power. That is why the Greek people voted for us. Because I have a little time to say, on the occasion of what George Karugalos had previously reminded of, I would like to say with the references to the unspoiled Paulo Bakoyannis, who we listened to in lawlessness, of course, on the junta. They mobilized me reflexively. It is no coincidence that during the same period in 1976, which private teachers were fighting against redundancies, two lighted people - the other one belongs to another, Professor Dimitris Tsatsos - wrote about this issue. The title is distinctive: ‘Entrepreneur and operative’. I want to read it to you in the least time. I don't know if I have the margin. ‘Any effort to secure the function is to ensure the training function, its independence. Independence is then limited to the private teacher, when the businessman cannot identify the teaching function on a business basis. The history of games to secure other functions is clearly teaching us that, without absolute professional assurance, it is not meant to safeguard the function. The Constitution, to which various people have referred here, is very careful in the wording of the article which allows private education. She doesn't match her to business freedom. She thinks it's a business. It's like a function that allows it. Therefore, be careful of this, it can intervene with restrictions for the operator, who are necessary to have the quality of the operation provided. Besides, the absolutely free economy is not the twentieth century. The theory of the liberalists had regard for industrial production rather than education. In industrial production there may be a time when the absolute freedom to lead to the quality of the product. This may not apply to the product called education.’ That's exactly our difference. We have a classic difference and ideological difference in this matter. It is the function and not the business activity that we are trying to ensure through this legislation. Unfortunately, PASOK is missing from the Chamber at the moment, but I would like to remind them of their roots. Look at something, and I'm going to get off the Stepma, we neither claim your legacy, caramanlism above all - what I remember now - nor obviously the legacy of PASOK. But keep in mind that the battle for principles and ideas does not have ownership status. For these big issues, battles have been fought even by people who belonged to different places. I've lived through the trade union movement for too many years, when with people from rival orders we were fighting these battles, because they were vital to the very existence of society and education. I want to submit a bill here. Now I see here and Mr. Loverdos and Mr. Constantopoulos. You did not have time to vote at that time because the PASOK government fell. I dedicate it to you excellently. We call these guns on our patron. We don't forget it. Everyone gives the battle for their roots. I'm filing you with the draft law. You can read his report and see if it has anything to do with what you are defending here with it in 1989. This is signed by Agamemnon Koutsogiorgas, Dimitris Tsovolas, George Gennimatas, Vassilis Rotis and George Papandreou as the responsible Minister of Education at the time. You should study it. I hope that by the time of the vote you will change your mind from respect to your roots at least. I submit it and submit the text of Dimitris Tsatsos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u449	Thank you. Mr Vassilis Kikilis from the New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u450	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will try to be brief and not to repeat positions which have been heard here two days, yesterday and today, and which are of interest both from the Communism and from the Opposition. I think that with institutional and structured arguments, the Qualification has enabled the world to learn why these arrangements, - because they are regulations, not drafts - on Greek-language education, on intercultural education and other provisions are handy, fragmented, in the wrong direction, disorientate, divisive, against any private initiative that may exist in this country. I would remind you that this private sector initiative is the one which, through taxation, finances all the rest of the Greek state and so on. In order not to repeat myself, and because I see that this has been done - and intrigues this - of fashion, ladies and gentlemen - I say good faith - and caramanism and in incomprehensible Georgios Rally and the other fighters of my expatriation and to the nationalist himself, Constantine Karamanlis, I should like to go down a little - if you like - the measure and I should also call on a politician, in 1995, which has something to do with education. At a private television station, at the "SKAI" in particular, on the show "From seeds" on 3-4 it was said: "We see the old archbishops the long-haired young people of the 1970s, who entered the amphitheatres and moved, took the students together with revolutionary proposals to change society, you see them today shave the beards, have cut hair, ties and manage the system, MPs, ministers. Many of them may have a positive attitude, perhaps, trying to do things. But many of them have taken a very different course. They're at ease. They have taken some positions in politics or peculiarize and do nothing to change things." I didn't say that. Mr. Mitsotakis didn't say so. Costas Karamanlis didn't say so. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister of the country now and your Chief, Mr Alexis Tsipras, said so. Deja vu! Back to the future! 1995! He foresaw his course and the majority of your colleagues or non-parliamentary ministers on the first left. I cannot put all my colleagues in the same bag, nor can I accept a priori, that all SYRIZA Members have dismissed or forgotten ideological issues of principle, for which, possibly, he struggled for years and finally won the majority twice, three times in 2015 for elections and a referendum, and thus governs the country. But I'm so sorry. There is a long way to go, if any, legitimate ideology, which is different from our own - I hope with the same purpose and purpose, in the public interest, to serve the country - from the way in which you do work on public assignments to refugee - immigration in hot spots and centers throughout the country, from the way you want to appoint those left and right, from the state channel to all the information bodies, from the way you want to command the country and its citizens, from how you want to rewrite history in modern books and how you want to discipline a new generation. I'm sorry, but I can't put on and I don't want to put all of you in the same bag. I would ask you, however, to be honest with us and the majority of the Greek people, and to exercise your criticism of the non-appropriate attempt to manipulate you, us, and especially the Greek people. I leave the media last, because if you want to do a self-criticism, perhaps age, it does not fit me, but perhaps on the New Democracy - PASOK and New Democracy, we did not manage to regulate information matters democratically, and you are now coming with absolute methods of doing what we should have done in the right way a long time ago. This is a reality, a criticism that I am ready to accept. But do you want to tell me about the public administration, the competitions, how you want to manipulate the means, the way in which you dropped the previous government and used the institutions, and now you say 'Come and go together, get by 2019 for national interest'? Do you feel about what you were saying in your first, second government election that your partners believe and apply them now to the government? I exclude the dean, who has a peculiar worship for the theater. That's not why we're going to be chasing him. Excuse me very much, but they're far away, gentlemen. Do you want to take it until 2017, in 2018, in 2019? Possibly. Maybe not. However, you must know that I still believe that there are colleagues here, in all the wings of the House, who can see the obvious. The obvious thing is that the way they decided to rule, this country's future is bleak. Things make it hard. Weights are rising. Look, because we have decided today to discuss the Legislation on Education, or is it timely and it is discussed every day whether to give three, four or five licenses on themes or on the ground and to whom, do you honestly think that we will forget about HICPIA, the ESS, further reduction in wages in a few months' time, in order not to come the cutter in 2017? Do you think it's so easy to make fun of so many people for so long? I do not believe it, but I do not believe that decisions, rhetoric, morals, are all the same. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Because you do not believe that in morality, rhetoric and values all are the same, do not try to impose downwards - not upwards - this in public education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u451	My colleague, Mr Theodore Karaoglu, from the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u452	Ladies and gentlemen, the overall assessment of the named reform effort attempted by the Ministry of Education through the bill we are discussing tonight could be summarised in the famous slogan written in the walls of Paris in May 1968: "Run, mate, the old world is behind you!" What do I mean by that? That quite simply, this "reform" - I am putting the word "reform" into introductorys - is governed by a strong ideological left-wing monopolies, a one-sided one that comes as a natural consequence of the unveiling statement made by the chairman of the Committee for National Dialogue on Educational Reform, Mr Antonis Liakos, according to which the purpose of the conclusion of the dialogue was to redefining the concept of "reformation" and to "repatriate it" to the left. In short, the intention of the present government, by promoting party egoism, is to identify education reform with a left-wing intervention, attempting to overthrow it from within or - if you prefer - a political manipulation of a crucial sector of the state, such as education. All of this, as Mr Friend claims, through a dialogue conducted on a zero basis. Only I can note that this dialogue is pre-conceived and one-sided, which, moreover, is demonstrated by the hasty way in which the legislation was submitted to the relevant committees, and today we are discussing in Parliament's plenary. The bill we are discussing and which you call a "conspiracy", I consider, dear fellow Members and colleagues, that it attempts to put a stop to the teaching of the Greek language in the Greeks of Diaspora, especially in a difficult period, during a period of intangible immigration of the Greeks. You are crushing on the millstones of saving resources a large part of Greek-language education abroad, which together with our religion is the most important components of Greek identity. No doubt, ladies and gentlemen, the children of Greeks abroad have the right to Hellenism and must remain close to their national identity, of course, is fully integrated into the environment in which they live. However, this must be done through a multitude of Greek-language education with a view to creating all those processes that will help improve the life of the family and, above all, promote Greek culture. I have read in detail the bill, and I could account for a lot of the government for a number of issues, such as changes to the conditions for the recruitment of teachers to Greek schools abroad, the limitation of extensions to secondments, or administrative restructuring with changes to training coordinators and school directors. However, I consider my obligation as a Member of Parliament and a Member of the Commission to the Hellenism of the Dispersion to focus on the importance of the education of Greeks abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, with your vote a few months ago you deprived the Greeks of the Dispersion of the right to vote. You prevented them from co-decision on developments in "Mother Greece". Do not deprive them now and the inalienable right to be given the opportunity of Greek education. I make this point because once the Greeks of the diaspora have practically demonstrated that they wish to maintain their self-interest, it is the state's duty to keep the communication channels open and invest in the future of Greek children abroad. For these people the Greek language is the link to the homeland, which they preserve, rescue, but also spread from generation to generation. It is their "loser of life and consciousness", as attributes have written our great Nobel Prize, Elysses, referring to a language, according to which the first European literature, philosophy and the theoretical sciences developed. It is the language with a unique contribution to enrichment of the vocabulary of other countries. That is why its value and historic role is inversely proportional to the way the present government treats it. Ladies and gentlemen, since the reform of education is the expression of a political proposal, namely the vision of the government in question, which is starting to shape the society of tomorrow, I am very concerned about the model of education that the current SYRIZA - ANEL government wants to implement. I'm worried because without a worthwhile hierarchy, there's no education. You don't believe either in denomination or in hierarchy or, of course, in excellence. Education and training, ladies and gentlemen, means education, which suggests that human personality is spread over the years of school. You, or at least the overwhelming majority of those belonging to SYRIZA, share - perhaps because of a complex as your former colleague, Mr Petros Tatsopoulos, argued - the famous statement by Mr Baltas on 'excellence'. You are consciously pursuing social equality. You are struggling to turn Greeks into a low expectations society. To achieve this, you are vigilant against religion and against education. The proposals you make with this bill are a summation of individual left-wing opinions, converging in something that is mutually acceptable, the subjection of our youth, and through the next generations of our nation, to ethnicism. You support the consumer version of education and try to relax and manipulate Hellenism within and out of the border, addicting him to password. You want our schools within and out of the border to have deliberately distorting visuals, ensnared to be our national disease and collective disability. To sum up and close, however well-meaning I am, this bill urges the Greeks of the Diaspora to prefer for their children the local schools. In this way, instead of strengthening the ties between the Greek children and the family, you are making sure you cut the already existing ones. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The provisions for Greek-language education are persecuted from the first to the last word from the basic doctrine of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL that excellence is reciprocity, according to Mr Baltas, or that career is "cholera", according to the other "star", Mr. Karanika. You are downgrading and do not upgrade the level of Greek schools abroad. Therefore, New Democracy is voting against the bill, having as its well-established principle that the preservation, strengthening and support of Greek schools abroad is a matter of life for the same family. A people who neglect his language and deny his education, ladies and gentlemen, are a people condemned to vanity. I am ending with an incitement to colleagues in the Congress: social leadership does not mean ownership, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u453	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister, Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, wants to make a legal improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u454	Parliamentary Amendment No 648 and special No 69 are worded as follows: ‘The appointment procedures pending when this is published are complete and the relevant acts of the teachers elected at the next stage and retired due to an age limit prior to the publication in the Official Journal of the Government of their act of appointment are published and published in the Official Journal of the Government and refer back to the date of the professor’s election. The arrangements laid down in this Article shall take over any election held after the entry into force of Law 4009/2011 (A 195) and shall not be completed with the publication of the relevant election in the newspaper of the Government. This provision does not impose any pension rights or other rights on teachers whose appointment act was published after their withdrawal.’ I'm presenting it for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u455	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u456	Here you go, Mr. Kerameau.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u457	Mr President, if I may, in my absence there has been a slandering complaint from Mr Katrugalo against our President, Mr Mitsotakis. I would like to reply to that with specific figures, because there was a clear falsification of some facts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u458	How much time do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u459	I shall speak very briefly, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u460	You have the floor, Mr. Keramea.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u461	Mr Katsugalos said that he submitted some letters from OELE to Mr Mitsotakis concerning the famous fake degrees, saying that Mr Mitsotakis did nothing at all and that Mr Katsugalos himself came after a few months and he uncovered the matter. It would be advisable for Mr Katsugalos not to be informed by OELELE or by his clients and it would be advisable for him to be informed by the official authorities of the state, because Mr Mitsotakis, gentlemen of SYRIZA, on the same day transferred the information to the College of Public Administration Auditors. He wants much courage from Mr Katrugalos, the Minister of 12%, the minister representing the mayors who specifically refused to provide information on the renewal of the contracts, he wants this Minister to put against the only Minister for Administrative Reform who, with real will, uncovered the issue of fake diplomas and not just this, but also the fake diplomas in the public sector. I would remind you that Kyriakos Mitsotakis is the first to make systematic checks of counterfeit diplomas in the public sector, he has discovered more than five hundred degrees of this kind and what has been done with this reform? It has stopped because Mr Katrugalos has legislated that these should no longer be controlled. We call on the Minister, who is not here, to withdraw. I repeat the letters referred to by Mr Katrugalos on the same day in the College of Public Administration Auditors. Mr Katrugalos himself can be informed of the findings of this House, which have just been made on the subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u462	Mr. Constantine Dousina from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u463	Thank you, Mr President. Speaking at the end of this interesting two-day debate, I shall avoid repeating the arguments which have often been heard as parallel monologues, since many of the objections and criticisms made to the bill have been answered several times by the ministers. The previous speaker, who spoke of a couple, about careers like cholera, I think it gives me the right to say that there is a great ideological game in this debate, a battle, a mother of battles, because of course the education of every people is his future, and the future of Greece is today, the education of the 21st century. I would therefore like to focus above all on the values behind this bill, which, in my view, is only a vote in a more general reform plan, parts of which have already been introduced, and which will soon come. It is a bill that belongs to a more general logic, which I would say expresses the spirit and morality of the Left. Speaking of Education in the 21st century, I would say that this should fall into the conditions of social reproduction that we have today, the modern and, of course, the best practices we take from teaching. I would remind you of two, three of the basic principles of education. The first is that the right to education exists precisely to reduce differences between rich and poor. The right to education must not distinguish between the two. Is this happening in Greece? ‘BBC’ article on September 30, 2015, entitled ‘Greek tradedy for education openportunities’, states that the Greek education system is one of the most uneven in the world. Based on a report by the Davos World Economic Forum, as we say it, it says that Greece is the last, in the 30th place, of the developed countries in the relationship between income and academic opportunities and performance. Five times more money is spent by the rich families in Greece than by the poor. So this overall failure of our educational system over the past twenty years is something that we, as government and ideology, have been determined to strike. I shall proceed to a second beginning. Education has an intrinsic and not a tooling value. They don't teach children at all levels just to get into the economy. We teach them to educate, as one has said, to think, to judge, to deepen, to gain knowledge of themselves and others. This is the classic ideal of the so-called 'Bildung', the cultivation of character, education, the creation of form in character. How, then, do these classic principles adapt to the current situation? I think that the basic chapters for the refugee schools, intercultural and Greek-speaking education give the'refren' around this legislative intervention. Many here - and we have heard them repeatedly in this Chamber, unfortunately - repeat that the dominant dilemma of the Greek identity is: 'East or West', 'Greek or world citizens', 'Losan or Kosani'. It's both wrong. Because, as we know from social science and anthropology, these concepts 'East' and 'west' are fantastic communities. They are creations that create an ideal "I", so that I can overcome the problems I have in my everyday life and as a subject and as a collective. The 'Western' is located in 'Eastern'. Where credit cards, internet and McDonald's go, obviously all traditional Community values begin to be undermined. Equally, the 'East' lies within the 'west'. We have it in all the major metropolitan cities of the world, of course, in Greece. The other one's inside us, and we're in each other. This is the basic value from which we start what we call intercultural education, education and principles. The logic of a contoured 'pig' identity is absolutely wrong. I conclude by saying a few things about the bill and it appears. I will, however, start with something that is not often heard and I think that as a Parliament we are obliged to talk more about, our demographic problem. The fertility index for a population to be reproduced is 2.1 births per woman of childbearing age. The average in Europe is 1.5. Greece has the lowest index, i.e. 1.3. If you add to this ageing population, the magnification of the expectation of age and the departure of the new Greeks from abroad, we are in a situation that we are becoming a people. According to data from the European Union using the last census, the last census, Greece had a population of 11 million in 2011 and will have nine million in 2050 if something does not change. What's it gonna change? That was Mrs Merkel, first of all. To the extent that we have the refugees and immigrants who come to Greece, we must begin to think about how we will be able to make this world not necessarily assimilate it, but to incorporate it into the national body, in order to save our population, to save our people. That's what the refugee school bill does. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a moment more, Mr President, and I shall conclude. Four schools will be built in the big camps. The others are going to the adjacent schools. Since the end of the month they will learn mathematics, the Greek language, a foreign language and perform gymnastics and other artistic actions. Nine thousand refugees have been pre-registered here, which means that they have started a process of seeking political asylum. This is one of the most important measures for me, which must also be taken as a parliament and as a government, but also as a civil society with the greatest force possible. We need these new children, which will go and learn Greek and which will enter the normal schools next year, to be able to slowly join what we call "Greek social fabric". These are the things that we are obliged to do, not by looking at our micro-political interests today, but by looking at the future of Greece - that is what we, as parliamentarians, have to do here - to start talking about them, to put them into public debate, so that people can hear them, hear what is said by the Greeks, that they will come here and eat us, make us all mosques, etc. We need that. This is the way we started and made this bill. But that is the spirit of the Left. We cannot abandon these basic ideological principles. In order to repeat the great moral principle of all western neurality, "the other one is inside me and I am inside the other". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u464	Thank you, Mr. Dousina. Mrs Aphrodite Stavoulis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u465	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the last speaker's position is indeed problematic in discussing a bill that many specialists, professionals and, indeed, some of the highest grades have spoken about. But when this is about an area in which we all have long-term experiences, I think we are entitled to express our views. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] So, speaking from its birth to now, experiences from one end to the other of the educational system have the right to take the view that one end, pre-school education, is the one in which a democratic society, and yes, a left government can more effectively compensate - with varying degrees of success, of course - for the inequalities with which children are already in debt because of the inequalities affecting their parents and the cultural level. Preschool education, then, as good as possible for all the children who live in the country, even those who escape the fate of little Ailan - remember him? - live in camps throughout the country. They are rightly expected to accept this training in the environment concerned. I hope that the procedures for their familiarization with the wider area will also be provided. It is right then to ensure primary and secondary education by supervising the state and with all teachers in the role of a minister and not ordinary seasonal employee for some. Of course, the additional activities of the private schools that are driving - you are supporting - their students and students in excellence, as long as they are declared and taxed, as are the respective activities in which students and students in public schools are involved outside school. If there is a measurable part of the Greek people willing to follow all kinds of saviors that claim access from Apollo to NASA, only by how many ancients are taught since 1982 and then it has nothing to do with this and every common mind understands it. It is first of all about whether our educational system as a whole promotes critical thinking and then, with the coordinated effort of the vast majority of the media to eliminate and any remnants of critical public thinking with teleproducts that start with serious panels with three astronomicists and an astrophysicist - you know who wins - and we end up in teleshopping skyliness writings about ELECOM, those SMEs for which the opposition is lamenting in the face of the risk of changing hands, but I hope that this will increase the chances of change and content. Equally, the bill provides for the development of intercultural education - firstly, experimentally, then, more extensively - so that our children's horizons can be opened up to other cultures, enriching our own culture, but also integrating children into our society from other cultures, having a positive impact on their parents, and this should be the most effective word - in in introductory terms - of phenomena that afflict other European countries and which are insisting on being a fear from the fans of xenophobia and racial hatred. As for that part which does not concern it in the debate on excellence in relation to at least formal education, because it has specific educational needs, it is a good thing that these needs are being met for this school year more fully than the previous ones. It is equally a good thing that the debate that has been opened on how to contribute to this objective - necessary, of course - with very specific knowledge, but also with more general knowledge and valuable experience. Coming to the other end of the education system, higher education with all its appearances and extensions, I will not deal with arrangements concerning the issues of its employees. However, I cannot comment on the point that once again caused the month of counter-population, the point of re-registration of students who were deleted on the basis of provisions of previous governments. Being in that generation that with the occupation movement in the winter of '79 overthrown Law 815, a law embodied "anti-Population" in the universities and considering that movement one of the most important things that I have ever been involved in my life, I know what everybody now knows. Eternal students "cost" an arcade on the paper where they are written and a penny above. So why did this vigilance come back almost thirty years later and continue by force my children to participate in mobilisations, which among other things also rejected deletion provisions, making me very proud not because my children did what I did, but because what we had won was still tolerable. There was so many years later that it was worth defending our children. Why is it from fans of free choice for whatever is sold and purchased, so little respect for the freedom of choice of young people to attend their studies at their own pace, without dismissing any social concerns or other sensitivities or from economic needs? This freedom of choice cannot be tolerated by your neoliberalism. However, we are voting today on this freedom of choice. And if I'm proud once that I once won her in the streets to find my children, I'm twice as proud to be voting in this Chamber today so my grandchildren can find her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u466	Thank you, Mrs Stuboulis, for the consistency in time. He even gave us a few seconds. Before giving the floor to the next speaker, I would like us to consult on the course and development of the debate on the bill. Four speakers are missing to close the list. Obviously, the Minister will close the debate. Warm request to any of the rapporteurs and special speakers who want to speak - and have this right - to come to the Bureau so that we can organise the debate. Mr Salmas has the floor now from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u467	Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about education in the House, they are being evaluated by all my fellow Members as very important. I'm one of them. That is why I asked to take the floor for two thoughts. It is well known that investing in education in a country is the most important one to do for growth, but also for prosperity after many years. That is why education must be an area for which we must try to have a cross-party agreement, so that at least this sector will have a follow-up. Politics is a skateboarding. A government takes the spoon from the previous one, and of course has the right to choose the path to take it forward. But the dog has to take her forward. She can't take her back. In recent years, the New Democracy has shown this intention and this rating scale for education and has been consulted on many issues on Mrs Diamantopoulou and steps have been taken ahead. Mrs Giannakou was an excellent Minister of Education and we were slowly moving so that, at the end, what is the purpose? What's the purpose? Tell each Minister and each Prime Minister to'reform' and, in practice, to dismantle what the previous minister did or take it from where he is and take it two steps further, or to show an intent to reach agreement, because after SYRIZA someone else will be, and after the other one will be next? So that wants political maturity. I do not judge you for that, because political maturity is only one year and a half, and I justify it. We who are older know that this is what the place needs. We do not need anyone to guarantee their authority on a matter and to try to think that they succeeded in reform. Minister, I'm going to ask you a little question. After this bill and the other one you're bringing, what do you expect? What's a measurable target? What are the indicators you want to improve? I will appreciate it very much if you tell me what the indicators are that judge a training system and tell me "I want to improve this indicator with this article, I look forward to this section of the articles improving the other indicator and I want education to have it there". It is a luxury to come here and have ideological discussions on excellence, as I have heard. Suddenly the problem is this, or if my son or Mr. Voridis can do two hours basketball and two football, why suddenly have you changed the maximum number of hours - say - and he won't be able to do that? To land you a little bit, last year my son was at the Pallini kindergarten, a state kindergarten. I won't tell you that we went the toilet papers from home - Panorama Pallinis, I'm telling you specifically - I'm not going to tell you that he had nothing at school and we had to take them away, the parents. Call in the kindergartens who sacrifice themselves to tell you how a state school works. That was when you were Minister. So now saying theories of excellence and for you to predict how a private school will fire the teacher, that is something that is heard first. Even in the Soviet Union, if there was a private school, I don't think Stalin had thought about that. It's like you guys tell a private clinic now, tell the Health Minister how he's gonna fire doctors and if he fires them, who's gonna hire them. It's similar. Health is like education. It's so critical. Can I give you an example, how did he sail from the problem of redundancies, because he couldn't fire a private clinic, Henry Dunnan? Why did he collapse? Because he had two, three thousand workers, had doctors who couldn't fire them because of the system of collective redundancies and collapsed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u468	And not for the scams?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u469	No, it didn't collapse for the scams.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u470	Not for the scams!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u471	No, I'm telling you honestly, it collapsed from...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u472	Did the scams happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u473	The scams had to...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u474	Minister, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u475	You did well to send them to prison, but they're his fraud...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u476	We went to another field, Mr Salma, to health, but we're talking about education.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u477	I brought an example.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u478	Yes, please continue, Mr. Salma.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u479	Why didn't you take them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u480	The criminal prosecution...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u481	Seven years he's been pouring.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u482	Please don't interrupt. Go on, Mr. Salma.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u483	Okay. The Minister is also allowed to say his opinion. So I told you about Henry Dunan. As Mr. Voridis rightly said, the prosecutions had begun a long time ago. But I say to you that the foundation is falling apart and cannot stand by the large number of staff it has. Now you listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u484	I'm sorry, Mr. Salma. Who appointed them? The command, which was the scandal leader.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u485	Well done. Now what do you want to do? Listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u486	Minister, please don't interrupt. To develop the debate. We'll have time by the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u487	Dialogue we do, it's not bad.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u488	This is the political issue, the quality of administration.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u489	The fact that you have an administration of a...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u490	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u491	Come on, Mr. Salma, please, you speak, Mr. Voridis is not speaking. Mr. Vorides is following. Mr. Salma, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u492	So you say to a owner who has invested millions in an institution, who has invested millions to build a school and who sets the educational targets and parents choose to get their children there for these educational objectives, you tell him that for two years he cannot change it if conditions are not met and then only after these two years if conditions are met. I respect the right of teachers you put, although I don't think they asked you to. I don't think private teachers in Greece have ever asked to be permanent. I haven't heard of it in sixteen years. I don't know if anyone's heard of it. They did not think so either of protecting their rights so much, but, in any case, you must respect the right of children and the right of parents to choose schools which will choose teachers. I, therefore, am not one of those who often take the floor in the House, but I really think that is wrong. It is wrong and you have the margin to fix it, because at the end of the day it will not bring about an improvement in education. It won't improve education. That's the point. We won't have a better education if we permanentize the professor. After all, the next private teachers must also be tested if they are reliable. In these words, I want to close my thoughts. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u493	Thank you, Mr. Salma. Mr Vorides has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u494	I read, ladies and gentlemen, from the explanatory statement, the purpose for which this provision is supposed to be introduced for private education. Here's what the explanatory statement says. It says what we have mentioned a little - much more - on the issues of government supervision of private education. It says that 'private training does not constitute a firm undertaking' - 'legislative arrangements should ensure that private educational workers are in stable working conditions as far as possible so that they can carry out their duties more effectively in order to fulfil the objective of education'. It also says: "Supplying the stable employment status of teachers is directly linked to the quality of the educational work they provide both for the benefit of the educational community and the social group in general". If one believes in the explanatory statement, the poorness of legislative intervention, its aim is to do - it is supposed - private schools better. But come on, which is what we say: 'It wants to hide, but joy doesn't leave her.' If you then admit in here that the issue is to alleviate the inequalities resulting from educational inequalities, which produce social inequalities. So what is the inequality that this bill is facing here? Obviously it is the inequality that we all understand, that private schools provide a better level of education than public and that inequality must be ragged by this intervention and made it worse. Oh, of course! This is expressly and cynically confessed in here. How, then, do you intervene, for example, on the subject of educational inequality? Have you brought in any arrangements to make the public school better? Did you bring in any arrangements to improve the level of education? Oh, no. You are bringing in a arrangement with which you come and say that private school is supposedly getting better. What do you mean? How do you solve inequality? By equating the private school? In other words, it's worse for private school right now and because it's worse, you're bringing a arrangement to make it better and get it straight with the public. Do you solve this inequality? So here we don't fool ourselves. It's clear what you're doing. You are actually implementing - and I said yesterday, I repeat today - one more step, one more step, one more step, against your overall plan, because you are in favour of freedom. Freedom, ladies and gentlemen, is a simple thing. It's the right to choose. You have to have choices and the option to choose and you have to, to make sense in this choice, choices to be different things. If you have to choose between the same one, then obviously what can you choose? You don't have a choice. So what you do is that you are trying to shape exactly the same conditions that exist in the public school, the same working conditions to transfer to the private and you do the same in the program. But if you equate working conditions, staff selection conditions, staff maintenance conditions, the conditions under which teaching is actually provided, the equations with the public and, at the same time, the programme with the public, then you abolished the freedom of choice. There's no freedom of choice. In your mind, because you're, I said, a man of consistent left, that's it. I wonder why you don't say it. You come and tell us that it is an intervention to improve private education in order to provide indistinguishably and inconsistently the teachers with their work, as if they were now being devastated. The private teachers were taken apart, for of the nine and a half thousand over the last two years a hundred fifty were released. That's why they're distracted, from this anxiety. Next item. I'm a lawyer. So you can imagine that I'm hired by a company to provide legal services, and after two years, I'll be permanently permanent until my seventeenth. Well, I'm wrong to provide legal services, they want people, they don't want, they don't want to be able to fire me, they have to go to the Bar Association, to my trade union or to the Justice Department to obtain approval, even if they don't want my legal services, they don't make them myself in this environment, because, he says, I'm doing a job. What kind of work am I doing? I am going to do as little as I can to ensure that I do not fall under the specific categories that make me subject to the termination of the contract of employment. So that's what we're undermining. Transparency towards freedom, against the right of choice, against the parent’s right to choose. The rest, I'm sorry, are flirts. That is why, for you have said so, fortunately, in your undersecret, we have said, a Bolshevik way, but you have clearly said that, and that is what should also be the recital in the annulment of this law. Because it directly offends the purpose of the Constitution. Because the Constitution accepts some limitations, but restrictions justified by the public interest and restrictions which are not sufficient to undermine the freedom of the administration of private education. So that is quite clear and clear and I do not think there is anything else. But only this whole nostalgic report I heard from everyone here about the nice '68s, then about the '75s, about the occupations, about the races, about the educational movements! May God be good that we left all this behind, and we're over it. We're just living a little break until they get permanently into the timeframe of history. These must go into the timeliness of history, these are the ideas that have delayed the place, those that are responsible for the fact that we are here today, this ideological hegemony of the Left over all these years, which has made absolutely the wrong direction at all levels, many times with the tolerance, unfortunately, of mine. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A special subject, Article 26. Mr President, two minutes, if you can give me one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u495	Mr. Voridis, just a minute, please. Wait a minute. You asked for two. You'll have one. Divide the difference. Come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u496	Okay. Minister, transitional provisions in Article 26. It is about secondment teachers, because they have a husband abroad. Listen, you are effectively abolishing this possibility. You give a transitional arrangement with this provision here and say, you set conditions to do so. So what? Continuously serve for over seven years teachers themselves. Deal. But at the same time, you say that the spouses have been in a permanent establishment and that they have been in a constant employment relationship for longer than ten years, that marriage is at least three years and that they have a very good knowledge of the language of the host country. The first issue to be considered here is whether or not anyone wants the measure. In other words, if he thinks that the people who have this relationship are wives, one is abroad, the other is a teacher, there is a place of teachers, he has to pay from somewhere, we have to send some people who have a bonus and therefore charge the state budget or make it easier for families at zero cost to the state budget. That's it, whether you want it or not. I can hear from the explanatory statement that, you know, there have been catastrophes in this matter, things have been done, and so on, it is a problem, there is the focus of difficulty too. This is something that one needs to deal with in particular, when one spots it. This regulation, however, which you are introducing, is unreasonable. Why is that unreasonable? Because, listen to something...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u497	Mr. Voridis, please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u498	I'm done. Why, for example, do you have the seven - year - old condition? Why should they continually serve for seven years? Why not five, why not three? What is the seven-year criterion? First question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u499	Be an instructor. Not to be in a grocery store and then come to do the teacher.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u500	He's an instructor, but you think he's there for seven years. So, I'm saying, why is that there seven years? In my opinion that is unnecessarily unnecessarily. Second, the husband should have a permanent facility...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u501	Twenty years and he's only worked a year... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u502	Can I say everything to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u503	Yeah, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u504	Mr. Voridis, I'm sorry now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u505	I'm done, I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u506	Look, nine and a half minutes you've been talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u507	I'll be right over.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u508	You asked for two, I told you one, I gave you two...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u509	If you'll let me...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u510	Don't tell me I'm interrupting you. I have to interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u511	I didn't say you interrupted me. You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u512	I have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u513	I'm not complaining about that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u514	Well, thirty seconds strictly. Don't tell you 20 seconds. Finish in 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u515	Secondly, they have a permanent establishment there, you say, for over ten years. Why don't you take the principle of tax residence? Whoever's a resident from abroad tax. Unify it. Why are you putting something in here? If he accepts this, the resident from abroad, the tax authority, why are you introducing a special scheme, different from that? You think it's been at least three years to avoid the abuse and virtuality of marriages. That's why you put that. And how do you know if the marriage, even in the third year, could be virtual? If you are trying to avoid the virtuality of marriage with it, you form unjust situations. You are shaping cases where there are people who will be wronged and finally the budget will be charged. So, in my opinion, you dare here. Do a clean deed. Or you will say "at all" and end the story or from there on you will accept that it is a practice that can be done and, if you find virtualities and abuses, you will judge them on a case-by-case basis. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u516	Mr. Andreas Loverdes has the floor from the PASOK Democratic Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u517	Mr President, I shall speak from my position.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u518	Of course, if you wish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u519	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, I heard you yesterday in your main speech and today in a great speech you have made to a colleague. It is really noteworthy how a politician goes through the top of the issue, on the subject, without going into the matter, except for an exception this weekend. You have a skill, I confess. But it makes it easy for you, too, for the Ministry you are. Because what can Mr. Tsakalotos say, who are photographing him with banners at a protest against HNPI against HNPI, when he has done it as he has done it? What can others say that are in other ministries, top of the country's finances? They cannot have your own facilitation when it comes to articulating a political and parliamentary speech. But the citizens have taken over the government. They've got SYRIZA, they've got the ANELs. It seems that the number you like, the four - with regard to another issue, of course - is a number which is not far away, Minister, because as long as you govern the crisis, you are politically evaporating. We are witnesses, selfish and eyewitnesses of this downhill, which you have started as a government as a whole to take. Where you return, Minister, especially as the political exhaustion becomes stronger, you will be without your old comrades, with thoughtless people who have left us, opportunists, opportunists of politics, who have chosen you as the coming political force and not because they believe you. Here, you have a legislative initiative. We are showing a character to this legislative initiative as well. What is right we support and you have invoked our position in the Standing Committee, as expressed by Mr Constantopoulos and our colleagues, and that is good. We're trying where something good can't be deceived. On the other hand, we have the courage to underline and support it. As far as private education is concerned, I would not mention the fact that I have been covered by Mr Constantopoulos, as I said, by our parliamentary representative, Mr Theocharopoulos, and by Mrs Kefidou and Mr Papatheodorou. I'm covered. But he made a reference to an old opinion from Mr Katrugalos just now. Indeed, with the late, the late Dimitris Tsatsos and Mr Neda Kanellopoulou, we have an opinion on the workers at Athens College. He didn't testify all of it, he filed excerpts, but the date Mr. Katrugalos has is the one I have. Because OELE gave it to me for a few months, when I was a Minister of Education. So I have freshened my views with which I agree and now after so many years. In my view, I support these views. But life has come, Minister, to balance things. After a year and a half of experience, close to twenty months of experience, how you as a party today say: "But as many substitutes as I could take again, some would stay out". But you're saying so now. When you were Repopulation, you said you were going to appoint - not you, the SYRIZA education sector - without everyone. When we got a deputy, you were telling him - that was the message: “What do they get you? For a deputy, they've taken you for nine months. In the summer you'll be on the road." Now that you are in this position, you are forced to see what the real components are that make up the problem of education and you may be aware and what are the components of the problem of education. So I insist on my point of view. This view has balanced me over the decades, Minister, in Diamantopoulou Law 2010. Yesterday you said - because I listened with caution - that then that older framework began to fall apart, which you praise and to which you want to come back. But it was wrong. Life has shown that things need balance. In the field of private education, I personally insist on my scientific opinion. Article 16, which protects private education, sets limits, lays down rules for the supervision of the State on it. In addition to this reminder concerning my own views, scientific and political, I say that I am expressing my support for the positions supported by Mr Theocharopoulos, Mr Constantinople and other colleagues. I can't make a report to eternal students. In your speech today on your amendment, Minister, you said that you were referring to active students who have declared for two six months, etc. As you know, since 2011, with a large majority the parliament has argued that the university should have an end as it has a beginning. To me, I received in the summer of 2014 to implement this. I have applied it consistently and with due diligence, giving students with a higher education period to be able to respond to delays, those who have not been able to make the deadlines, even though they have not been able to do so. It was then, Mr Philly, a timely debate on the subject, on television, Parliament and, more generally, on what the system for eternal students is used for. Some people said that financially has no objection. It doesn't cost a student to attend the exams. It was not an economic issue, it was never, nor is it. The point is, the university starts it to finish it. Where there is no end to this process, the assessment that you are undergoing by the international rating agencies and by any assessors, starts at a disadvantage. With what you do you can do, you can do the good and make it easier for some people, who in any case have known since 2011, and yet they have not been able, but on the other hand, you do not make it easier for the graduate, you do not make it easier for the institutions. You give them a disadvantage in terms of the level of evaluation which is made every year by international assessors and which are of great importance to our students, our universities, in general, for higher education. I mentioned two issues with which I disagree. I shall now mention two issues with which I agree. Firstly, as you have formulated Article 27, we shall vote on it. Article 27, ladies and gentlemen, relate to the retrospectively defined by case law and also by the law of SYRIZA. Retrospectiveness, so, after a number of years - fifteen for someone, twenty for someone else - is a murderous energy, if introduced. As it had been introduced, he was killing people, crushing people, crushing families. Now, as you have shaped the provision with 20% of the retroactive debt on net profits, not the unclean ones, there is no reason not to vote. Some may be burdening them, but all the Greek society has been penalized. The Democratic Reconciliation will therefore vote for the provision as formulated. Finally, Mr President, I would like to mention the courageous action of the Ministry of Education, which has accepted and incorporated into its law an amendment that we tabled with Mr Constantopoulos and which I personally have been wrestling with since the last weeks of my existence in the Ministry of Education, as a Minister, but also as a Member of the Anti-Policy since February 2015. There's a problem with disciplinary law. The disciplinary law for the university has basically come from the 1930s. In other circumstances, other assessments of the negative significance of criminal acts, small, medium-sized and large, at another stage of decency, as the legislator appreciates, for one person's action, had to have an adaptation of justice, but at the same time also of leniency. A man cannot fly along the road because he has misled a crime that does not carry a great deal of punishment and is not particularly deceptive, such as active - passive bribes, such as infidelity, duty violations. They are punished and the professor is expelled by the imposition of a disciplinary penalty. But not for minor violations of the service, which the judge has irrevocably deemed to be of no special value and has punished with a slight penalty.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u520	Come on, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u521	Very well is your choice to accept it. I give this information as well. We've never discussed education issues. I have proposed this and I have proposed to you the institutional way that I have guaranteed. Call all the previous Ministers of Education. There was a dialogue with ALME and ILO that was interrupted because of the fall of the previous government. With the ILO and OME - I closed, Mr President - we agreed that disciplinary law should be changed in both secondary and primary terms. We were almost done. I am also strict in where, to those who - and I have closed, Mr President - the sexual freedom, for example, of small people and another irreversible disciplinary law, you are at the mercy of any complainant. The dialogue is mature. He had arrived at the end of the year at the end of 2014. You took the responsibility of bringing for primary and secondary school a similar order to the current order in the House here to vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u522	The last speaker has the floor from the list of speakers, Mr. Kefaliannis. Mr Saridis has been asked for the floor as a Parliamentary spokesman for the Union of Centres. After Mr Saridis, the rapporteurs and special speakers will speak, those who have said to the Bureau that they will speak. Mr. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u523	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, if there is one space, one area that, after seven years of crisis, continues to work as if many things had not happened, that is no other than in the field of education. As if it were not past one day, we are maintaining an educational system which has little to do with the labour market and society. The government remains the largest employer of the graduates of higher education institutions. It continues to employ massively the graduates of general high school who fail to enter them. Any attempts at change in the past, at all levels of education, have encountered a huge resistance within the educational system. Most of these last eighteen months have either been interrupted or completely overthrown. At random today, six members of the Foundation Council of the University of Athens were resigned, reacting to the Minister's refusal to proceed to new elections, as foreseen, by extending their term of office. Among other things, great personalities have resigned that have been denounced by the Council, such as Alexander Nehamas, George Tsokos, and even Jack Davis, the archaeologist who has honoured the excavations in Pylos. If all six of the last week are taken into account by the Council of the National Technical University of Athens, we can now say officially to you the symbolic abolition of the law - framework 2011, which was in agreement with the overwhelming majority of the House. Unfortunately, we are still going within an open internationalised economy with the educational system of an enclosed and isolated international society. As a Precious Opposition we have often criticised the government both for the dubiousness and the lack of programme depth and for the bilingualism and reunification through which you are approaching the issues of education. I think, however, that today's bill is yet another proof that we are dealing with something more. We are dealing with an experiment of social engineering, with another game of conflict of ideology with reality, where through this victor's collision the ideology must come out well. It is a real mistake - and I am doing my self-criticism - that we individually dealt with the issue of model schools, the introductory examinations at universities, eternal students, management boards, the selection of school directors. It is obvious that we will have to look at all these as technical details of another education, another educational philosophy that, according to its inspirations, will undermine neoliberalism, denouncing the values of production, market and technocracy and cancel any class differences. I wonder why, in fact, we will remember the current government's legislative initiative. For Greek-language and intercultural education, which are really very serious issues, or for other provisions such as the amendment to eternal students and the intervention of the Minister for Private Education? I start from eternal students. What happened so far? There was a limit for students to attend and registration in every six months in order to maintain their student status. There was also a provision for interruption and reinstatement for workers, for example. What are you doing today, gentlemen of the government? Removal of all pensions and all conditions for the maintenance of the student status. It re-establishes those who had been automatically erased. It is not only that you devaluate public HEIs and their operation, that you also create serious operational problems, as with the non-registration of higher education institutions you will not know how many students will have in each semester and every lesson. I ask: How will their courses, rooms, workshops and everything necessary for their proper organization and operation be planned? As far as private education is concerned, you are not concerned if, for example, you say that public education is not in a good condition and also if plans and intentions are announced for changes, which, first of all, all the SYRIZA executives themselves despise. The first priority for the Ministry of Education is to bring private education to public measures. Instead of dealing with 95% of pupils who are suffering from public schools, as you say, they wish to "fashion" for the rest of the 5%. The problem, rather, was summarised by the Minister: "We want excellent school everywhere and not some schools of excellence, because the invocation of excellence has led to the intensification of educational inequalities". The problem, therefore, is excellence, not equalisation, anxiety and indifference, which are the major wounds to education today. Instead of dealing with the enormous disparities in public education, the great shortages in regular staff and infrastructure, the problem of education has been diagnosed by the inequalities of private teachers with their counterparts. You blamed us, and we're dealing with private school as another operation. Minister, it is not another business, but it is also an operation, which means that if - rightly so - redundancies should not be arbitrary, this does not mean that their control should be carried out by the Ministry of Education. Nor, of course, can government supervision result in a standardization of working conditions, public and private teachers. Do you really want to deal with private education? Help private schools to evaluate their staff on the basis of the specific criteria they establish, always in the context of legality. Give them the opportunity to draw up their programmes freely, with additional courses and actions they want, without bureaucratic restrictions. After all, this is also their great comparative advantage and from this experience public education can benefit first and foremost. Instead of lowering instruction hours and limiting the operation of full - time schools, incentivise parents to want their children to send to them. More teachers will find work and classrooms will be dismantled and pupils will have better and personalized treatment. Ladies and gentlemen, with today's bill, no private education is reformed or, much more, public education changes, at least, to the great inequalities that are plagued by it. With today's bill you're trying to win more votes. At least you think so. If you are interested, however, in the future of the young people of this country, the big issues are other. The question is who will change the relationship between power prevailing in the post-political period and favour only inaction, who will limit the waste and the cost of education, not at the expense of their pupils and their opportunities, that is, without breaking lessons, sectors and specialities and reducing the functioning of schools as it is doing. The question is who will change the orientation so that the Greek institutions, instead of training the doctors of Germany and the engineers of Qatar with the money of Greek taxpayers, can attract foreign students to help the Greek economy. Who will stop deceiving young people that they will once be appointed to the public in order to get attracted to the indemnity of schools in general and to go to the entrance of higher education institutions? Who will once again give technical vocational education the right place to become more attractive than the general school, as is the case in the more developed countries in Europe? Who will introduce evaluation, accountability and transparency everywhere and everything in education? Finally, who will decentralise the more centralised system of education, protect it from micro-participatory purposes and agglomeration? Bring similar proposals, Minister, and here we are to discuss them. But stop at some point fighting impressions and populism against fantastic class enemies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u524	Mr Kefaliannis concludes, as we have said, the list of speakers. We will give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, Mr Saridis, and then to the position of the rapporteurs and the special speakers. Mr. Saridis, you have the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u525	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin with something my respectful friend, who is already elected in the same region, Mr Mitafidis, said. This is not an ideological war, it's a party war. That's the truth. It's a party war, it's not ideological, colleagues. This is because we cannot legislate anywhere else neoliberally and elsewhere to legislate left. In fact, you entered the Greek Parliament in the elections that were held not to legislate for exactly this bill, you came to be able to change things to everything else, to which you legislate neoliberally. Work is close, you're talking about protecting jobs. We will see which jobs you will be able to safeguard in SYRIZA - ANLE Co-government. Article 28, the notorious article 28 of this bill, says that "the school chief cannot dismiss for good reason anyone if he does not...". Is that possible? What do you think? All teachers, all teachers have the same educational competence? Can everyone do the same? Isn't there the good thing? Isn't there the best? Is all those taking degrees the same? All those who take degrees can? Are we applying the same thing to private hospitals? Batch one, work the other. Have we ever been to the private hospital to say you're going to kick a doctor off if he doesn't? Why? Because in the hospital we're talking about the future of a human life. Who told you education was less? We are talking about the future of a nation for which many lives have been lost. Many people have lost their future for the future of a nation. The Greek school is one, as is education. We said this yesterday: there is no public or private education. There is public or private education. Today we should discuss the purpose of education. We didn't. On the contrary, we are discussing an administrative bill, in which we have too many ministerial decisions. We cannot authorize the Minister to act as he wants. We cannot legislate on the basis of speculation and ambiguity. We talked about labour issues. We will not support Article 28 and we have placed ourselves on it. We will, however, support Article 27 because the Minister has made an amendment which honors him, an improvement of the article and the position of the President of the Union of Centres, Vassilis Leventis. We will support this article. Greece requires an environment with partnerships. In an economy like ours right now, we need to look at all sides and the side of the business. The Centro Association has committed itself not only to its voters, but also to the Greek people that it will exercise a responsible opposition. In short, we will support the right and the right and we will vote against the wrongs. In this bill we admit that a serious job has been done in Chapters I and II, which we will support. We will be placed 'at present' at the outset for the reasons we have analysed yesterday and today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u526	Thank you, Mr. Saridis. We are starting with the rapporteurs and special speakers. The first is Mr. Tibetan from SYRIZA. Three minutes we'll give everyone. There will be a tolerance, but let us make sure that we are consistent in time. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u527	Thank you, Mr President. A debate was concluded which, as expected, clearly illustrated the political and ideological contradictions that exist in this dominant subject of education and education. I would like to focus on some points and arguments which have been heard, in relation to the bill and in particular on private education. It has been heard that we are enemies of evaluation. Let this candy of evaluation become something more specific now. Clearly, we are opposed to the assessment of one, the schoolmaster, the evaluation of one director you had, the one school advisor you had and the one who led to the dismissal of teachers. Left, SYRIZA says "yes" in evaluation, but in collective forms that will upgrade public education, education, school. We therefore call on you in this debate for this assessment. Teachers are being treated as top-secret faces. And clearly not everyone is accused. Some are the ones who have created the problems. But we forget that the aim of a business is profit. That is why this debate is taking place. There's all our disagreement. We think it's not a purely business. This is something clear, as the Council of State says. How does anyone understand that? How does this matter defend itself in the public interest? Another very important issue. One argument was made - let me say - that the average in private schools in the pan-Hellenic was fifteen. Very bad grade. In public schools it was 12. Well, I can inform you that at the 1st Livade High School, which I had the honour of serving before I was a Member, which 50% of the students can objectively not go to private school because their parents don't have the money, because they are Roma, because they are refugees, the average is much higher, they are 16.3. I would never send it to a private school my child. That's the reality of public school. Because when we make percentages and statistics, we see which children go to private school and what children go to public school. I think, therefore, that all the debate that is taking place in a way - let me say it - hypocritical - hides the great class reality that exists in Greece today. What does the concept of freedom and democracy mean for us? All children, Greeks, have equal opportunities in education, work life through public free education. That is freedom, that is democracy, that is what we will serve with this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u528	Thank you, Mr. Thebeau. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Maximos Charakopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u529	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the rag bill that we are discussing started as a bill on Greek-language education abroad and then added provisions on intercultural education, on irregular diplomas in TEIs, private schools, refugee education, but also amendments on education centres and foreign language centres without any dialogue with the stakeholders, as they have denounced. And, of course, along with the late amendment on special education, we also had a series of delayed and pointless amendments. Minister, this way that the government legislates at the last minute's night's amendments, surpriseing the House, does not honour it. With this tactic, the government shows that it wants to see, by way of summary procedures, without debate, regulations which often overthrow the lives of our fellow citizens. This process reduces legislative work and offends MEPs who do not have time to study in substance and in depth the amendments, the provisions made by the State. A sample - I would say - of the curiosity with which the government legislates, if not wickedness, is the legislative improvement for the schools. A legislative improvement was tabled yesterday, according to which work during the holidays is not paid by surcharge. We have placed ourselves on the amendment on the basis of this legislative improvement, and at only five is the very opposite legislative improvement, saying that the work on the holidays will also be paid for by surcharge. So you're also bringing in schooling for the intern? So if a tutorial operates in July, will he pay remuneration by surcharge to the trainees' workers? Does this exaggerated zeal lead to the opposite results, Minister, and eventually leads to a lock on the border care centres and to the exacerbation of the particular courses? Mr President, we have just heard Minister Katsugalos, who has launched a personal attack on the Chief of Police, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, invoking lies. He addressed to the House invoked false evidence. I understand that in the face of a remodeling he may want to give the Prime Minister an examination. But they are all aware that he has just received complaints about irregular diplomas, irregular qualifications issued by TEIs in the past, immediately sent them to the College of Public Administration Inspectors. If the abscess of forged titles, fake diplomas in the public sector, this was done under the Ministry of Public Administration by Mr. Mitsotakis. I don't expect you to recognize it. But do not resort to such a scandalous distortion of reality. As far as private education is concerned, I think that the debate shows that it is your ideas that lead you to this madness. These are the ideas you have against any private sector activity. Minister, I listened to you in a formal tone and repeatedly assure you that the schools for the first time in September will function properly. I wish! But that's not true. Teachers who listen to us know that both in 2008 and 2009 August 2009, many on the beaches, were informed with sms about the school to which they would be appointed, about the school they would be working in the new school year. Moreover, the delays in the next period of the New Democracy’s co-determinations are not in any way comparable to the delays in 2015. I wish the schools would function properly, but this cannot be presented as a wretch. And on the one hand, you celebrate, but on the other hand, you told us about political tripods that some people put you in order so that schools don't function properly. Such complaints cannot be suspended. If you've got anything specific about Civic Opposition, say it. You cannot, on the one hand, ask for a consensus from the Civic Opposition and from the other parties of the Hellenic Opposition and, on the other, allow such complaints to be suspended.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u530	Mr. Charakopulus, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u531	Are you building an alibi, why aren't you sure the schools will work properly? The government's legislative initiative leads things to the area of education back in the 1980s, where most of the pathogens are caused by the country. The New Democracy tomorrow as Prime Minister of Kyriakos Mitsotakis will abolish the law Friends, which, it seems, the majority will vote. I do not know if I have time, Mr President, to refer to ministerial and parliamentary amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u532	Mr Harakopoulos, I think it has been accepted by everyone, after the Bureau's proposal, that the rapporteurs and speakers should be able to speak three minutes. We've already reached six minutes. You've used twice a year. What can I tell you? You have had the whole time, so many hours of meeting, to take the floor to refer to amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u533	As rapporteur, I only spoke this morning, Mr President, for eight minutes. The procedure followed is fast track.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u534	Yeah, all right. What is your request, for what amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u535	Two minutes to explain a few things about the amendments. But if there's no time, what can I tell you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u536	Would you like to table a motion for a resolution by your party?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u537	Wouldn't you like to talk about them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u538	But I do not want to deprive you of the floor, but if you are going to get two - three - four minutes, then the rest of the speakers will be protested.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u539	I'll stand on two. I'll be out in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u540	Okay, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u541	As far as the ministerial amendments are concerned, I have had the opportunity to demonstrate the fragmentation of the project. I think the fact that the government legislates for special treatment with a late amendment shows the importance it attaches to it. For the Cesarean Sniper our department leader, Mr. Athanasios, I think, has shown the problem with judicial involvement. We're asking to retire until the case is finalised in justice. The EIT amendment, and only the eternal student regulation, is enough to vote against it. And it comes today, after the resignations of members of the boards of foundations at universities, who denounce the government that by the way it disapproves the boards of foundations. For the amendments tabled by the Governmental Members, all late, it is clear that it is a ministerial dictatorial to avoid the stumbling block of the General Accounting Office of the State. I would like to say that following the recast of the amendment to the reinstated teachers, we are voting 'yes'. We do not agree with the personal arrangements of Amendment No 649/70. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u542	Article 27?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u543	We told you that we would not agree on tax retrospectives. You do the wrong thing, we won't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u544	I would ask that there be no dialogue. The special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece Mr Tassos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u545	Thank you, Mr President. There was a lot of talk of freedom and Mr Voridis, of course, said that freedom was the right to choose. For us freedom is what we need to do so that I and you live well, enjoy the social goods of health, education, sport and culture. So we say that, based on this concept of freedom, which we have, this concept that says freedom is the realization of the need - I wish the government had that idea. Because if she had that perception, then she would understand that social goods and capitalism, where everything is goods for sale for profit, cannot exist. And, therefore, education and business activity are not compatible. Education is a public social asset and should therefore belong to society, cannot be a commodity for sale with a view to profit or to saying a little profit, in the very short term. Social goods and capitalism are not inconsistent. This is about the freedom of speech. Now I will be a little more pedestrian here, and I shall refer to this amendment on the arrangements for the operation of the theatres and other performance areas, where it is foreseen that those who have the theatres by 31 December 2016 have submitted a specific study on fire safety. We say that this should be extended, gone at least by May 2017 or even better by September 2017, which is the date that already exists. Therefore, we call for this extension of the time limit from 31 December 2016 to go at least until May 2017 and up to a maximum until September 2017.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u546	Thank you, Mr. Tassos. Mr. Mavrosh has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u547	Mr President, you have not given me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u548	Excuse me, we asked you, we made sense to you and you told me that you didn't want the floor, that you weren't going to place yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u549	I didn't understand that, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u550	All the other special speakers understand the Bureau and you're the only ones who don't understand it? I do not intend to deny you the floor, but I am surprised that you are asking for the floor. Mr Mavrotas, Mr Constantopoulos precedes Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u551	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u552	I'll talk to Mr. Mavroche and then I'll talk to him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u553	Mr. Black, you have the floor. Then Mr. Constantopoulos follows.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u554	I am only taking the floor for two minutes, Mr President. In the Greek-language and intercultural education bill there are several articles that we will be voting in favour of. However, in Article 28, which was also the case at present in the field of private education, we have made a specific proposal which was compromised. We tried to find a golden incision between the different views. The Ministry did not, however, dare to take the step, which it had allowed to make clear that it was considered in the Committee on Morphic Affairs, that is to say, to adopt a proposal even if it comes from another party. In our view, the paternity of a proposal for acceptance is not important, but its content. A complaint we continue to have is about how to legislate with the constant amendments, which we now have in addition to the multi-lingual plans, and the multi-modalities that come down to date, and even to the last minute and legislative improvements that reversed previous legislative improvements, in which we had essentially structured our speech this morning. I would like to say that in general, this shocking piece of legislation only creates and does not help the consents that are necessary for the major changes that need not only our place, but especially the area of education that we are doing most here. Finally, I will conclude by regretting the resignations of the members of the boards of foundations of several universities, the Metsubian Polytechnics, the EMCDDA, the Thessaloniki. They actually resigned because they did not accept the extension of their term of office, because the government does not want to initiate procedures for new elections in the institutions' councils. We hope this will make you more concerned than to be pleased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u555	Thank you, Mr. Mavrota. The reason for this is the special speaker from the Democratic Association, Mr Constantopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u556	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, education is a social asset and as a social asset it should be dealt with. In particular, there is a need for consensus, consultation, dialogue, which I would say could not be done as it should be. I would say that the whole procedure followed was a paradoxical way to change the nature of the bill. A bill which, while it came as a bill of Greek-language education abroad, changed its nature. Of course, what changed the nature of this bill much more was the special treatment and, of course, the many amendments that came to be debated. I have referred in detail to both the bill and the articles of private education and special education. But, Minister, I would like to remind you of a dialogue that you and the Prime Minister had chosen in September 2015 and you were the ones who did not respect him. At that time, they suggested that there should be an in-depth dialogue, that there should be consultation and that there should also be a debate to come to Parliament and legislation. There is now a lack of conclusions and proposals from both the EPP and the ESDP. I think it would have been a different approach to the whole discussion if we had the proposals of both the EPP and the EPP. Now, in terms of intercultural elements and schools, which we really want as Greek citizens to have in our country, I believe it is a duty and obligation for all of us to weigh things up and see the values for both poverty and xenophobia and racism, because refugees must also be given an equal educational process. Questions can be a lot, in particular, about what model of education will be promoted for the integration of all-language pupils and refugees, as well as whether intercultural education programmes can continue in our universities. But what I would like to end with is that we should also see another generation of young people, our young people, the new generation of Roma people. No references to them. So we also have to look at the Roma issue equally and bring these proposals which will also give them a way out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u557	Thank you to Mr Constantopoulos, who has completed the cycle of rapporteurs and special speakers. The Minister for Education, Mr. Friends, has the floor to close the meeting. Mr. Philly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u558	Mr President, the other two Ministers will speak very soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u559	Excuse me, Minister, but the Minister closes a bill and concludes the debate. If you want, they'll lead you to close down. Would you like Mr. Peglerin to take the lead, and then Mrs. Anagnostopoulou? Is that what you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u560	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u561	Very soon, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor. Mr. Peglin, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u562	Mr President, I will be very brief, and I shall refer to what Mr Vorides said about the seven years of seconded persons, who have the opportunity to take their training course to the place where they are, while leaving their organic position here. I honestly wonder why it is perhaps the only measure that has been dealt with in the most consensual way by everyone here, with your doubts. So we have not set any social criteria, so that there is no subjective factor, that is, what has been done so far, causing chaos is precisely because of that. The criteria that have entered are objective, like those for the marriages you have said, and certainly there is always the possibility of a diligent in finding a way out. This is where we have fake university degrees. We had to introduce this measure, firstly, because we saw it in the sense that some people who had worked there would have to leave her rocks per year of renewal and, secondly, because there is a place for others who are just as competent as teachers here to claim the place there. There is still, because there is no other way of evaluating their quality, rather than knowing that these people have been there all the time they have been working on education, because there are teachers - and I am sorry to say it - who went and sat down a year and then did other jobs. He could be 20 years. Will you bring him after 20 years, who's left his job, and will you trust him for your children? I mean it is perhaps the most innovative measure we bring with this bill, because, as I said before, this bill did not come to change the world. He's come to set order and continue from now on in a coordinate way for the benefit of our students. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u563	Thank you, Mr. Peglerin. Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u564	I'll start with something very specific. Mr. Loverdos left, but because he was heard by other speakers to avoid being created...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u565	I would ask that no personal reports be made.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u566	No, it's not personal. It's an answer to something he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u567	We're gonna get into a process. Please limit the name report.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u568	Yeah, it's not a personal report. I reply to a few speakers about the two consecutive semesters without deletion. Law 4009/2011 left this loose end. Mr Loverdos has also been mentioned here, which says that because of the large number there is a need for accreditation after application, etc. This concerns the period from the adoption of the 2011 Act, where the essentially provision for the two consecutive semesters remained inactive. It has been applied to very few institutions. In other words, it has not been applied. It's not about eternal students or anything. It concerns an asymmetrical treatment of these students, and the provision concerns only those who apply for, who have not been registered in two consecutive six months since 2011, i.e. since the law was passed, and who want to return. That's it. I'll give you that, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u569	Aren't you talking about the total duration of the course? You are also abrogating this article.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u570	Mrs. Cherry, please. Come on, Mrs. Anagnostopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u571	Yeah, let's talk now, 'cause I want to say two more things. I mean, it's not for the total duration. It is after 2011's vote on these outstanding cases.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u572	No, it's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u573	Well, I want to close, saying some things I haven't had time to say before, and now I'll be very brief. This bill, which has been called 'cured', has three very important pillars, which I would say is what makes the Left from the Right. I would say that in this environment we are living, the extremely difficult, the very unfavourable - we say it, it is nothing new, there is - these are the pillars that can keep a society up. The article on private education is not because we have an idealism or anything like that. It is because if education does not remain a public asset, from there on the problem is huge, especially for countries such as ours. Secondly, on the refugee issue. Because we also have a party, which is expressed in the most racist and violent way, in violent and vulgar racism, I would like to say that all scientific studies have proved one thing: the integration of refugees or immigrants into a society can only benefit from it, not to mention everything else. And since we had two days ago the anniversary of the Asia Minor disaster, which condensed exactly what refugee means in this country, which had so many immigrants abroad, talking about children as illegal immigrants and barbarians, at least within this House, is absolutely unacceptable. One word, and I am closing, Mr President, for excellence. Excellence is the scholarships to young researchers and young researchers, so they can stay at their place. You talked a lot of people, too, about the Olympics. And congratulations, and all that. I'll just say two clues. If Petrounia - the amazing Petrounias - had an unfortunate moment, that would not make him any less excellent. But for Petrounia to exist, there must be structures for other two hundred or a thousand athletes, who are not excellent and that's all right. For the perfect ones to be able to come out, there must be a collectiveness within which the perfect ones are reared. Otherwise they wouldn't exist. For the institution councils, I'd like to have this conversation. We're not happy. We have no purpose like that. I wonder why they did not accept anything they had accepted from Mr Arvanitopoulos as well, the extension of the term of office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u574	Thank you to Mrs. Anagnastopoulou. The Minister for Education, Mr. Friends, has the floor, which concludes the debate on the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u575	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of a process which lasted several months. The issues of Greek-language education as a preliminary draft were raised in the public consultation and were given to the parties as early as April. All the issues that we have been discussing today are well known for at least a month, when the bill was passed in the Committee on Education. So there was no surprise. Even the special education amendment was the subject of a wide-ranging public consultation with five thousand people involved. There was also the possibility of developing their views here too. I would like to say that dialogue is necessary. That is why we started - it is the first act of this government - in accordance with the process of national and social dialogue. And in the House, in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, there is a conclusion on issues that we need to legislate on, and we have already set them before us, and we are going on the basis of this conclusion in specific reforms, as well as in the Committee on National Dialogue, where we are talking about, and we are about to present concrete proposals for reform of education. So we don't miss dialogue. However, we lack the political will to reach agreement. And to some extent, that makes sense, because in the field of education symbolises, ideologies, values, often in an excessive way, one will say, but they conflict. That's true. Nevertheless, there can be a common ground for discussions, what you would call 'the common good' and in the field of education. I think that today's debate, despite the deceptive designations we have heard of the bill, due to opposition, obviously, duty, is a first step that there may be shocks, that we all overcome our bad self and the opposition reality that we are experiencing. And I say that it is a good step, because in the vote we had yesterday at the outset, but now the parties' positions are converging. The'residents' in the bill is a very serious step that the government takes into account. We note that perhaps for the reasons we will hear in the course, the New Democracy and the Golden Dawn are left for their own reasons, I imagine. But especially for the New Democracy, this 'no' raises a problem of identity, because it is a 'no' and in its history, as we mentioned, the introduction of private education in our country. So this is a reserve for us: convergence around this bill. We believe that in the next period we will also have other possibilities through controversy - I repeat - to find convergence points. I talked about triple policies. The next few days, we'll see. In all the lies we have heard in some respects over the last few months, that we are abolishing the full-day school and that we have more classes than last year and students as well as last year, that we are abolishing the membership departments and that we have more for the first time after eight years of integration, so we say that with a smaller school population in kindergarten we have more kindergartens. We'll close the kindergartens, they said. They said the Integration Departments would be closed with the educational policy of inclusion. Not only did the Integration Divisions close down, but after eight years we have four hundred new departments and new special treatment structures and nine thousand staff recruitments in special education and twenty thousand eight hundred recruits throughout education. So where is this disaster that we have heard for so many months, which has left its poison and acted on purpose as a propaganda in favour of private education, after recognizing public education? That's what we need to talk about. Because everything that we all say here is heard by public opinion and it is not always easy to draw its conclusions, even with the catalytic support of the median environment. I would like to inform the Greek Parliament that, from this year on all levels of education, the new programme of the religious lesson will be implemented. I heard a position of the President of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, a month ago on a television show that he also agrees that the programme of religious in schools should be changed. With the program that we have ready as an EPA, as an Institute for Educational Policy, through a special committee set up and listened to all sides and the Church and theologians and all sides - the decision is, of course, state, so the school does not work with decisions of others - we are ready and will train teachers and we will proceed to a program to change the lesson of religious, in a concept of not being a confessional, categorical, but a lesson of knowledge of religions, of course of Orthodoxy and of the other religions that surround our country or live in our country by different believers. We very soon hope to be able to present this programme for the training of theologians. One more argument has been heard, unfortunately, from the right is the truth and from the Golden Dawn we will expect that, because all the bad things come from the fall of the Golden Dawn dictatorship, from the shift, understand this. But did New Democracy not support the policy of educational reforms that were launched - and were these reforms important - with George Rally, Evangelos Papanouchos, in 1976, with the introduction of primary education, with the abolition of the teaching of ancient Greeks by the original in high school, with the introduction of technical education, with the guarantee of private education? I'm not saying everything's right and nothing should change, but there's a basis. We can't go backwards all the time. And I believe that the New Democracy and the question of education - I repeat - has a problem of identity. It cannot, with its ideological character today, support what has been very good, despite the disagreements we have had at the time, in the reconstruction of society after post-Culture. It is also argued here that our 'feeling' will lead to thousands or hundreds of redundancies. You understand that this argument should not be edited within the House by party representatives. This is the argument of the owners of all kinds and I would say to the pirates - owners - and not the owners of the good schools. Do not create with these arguments an alibi for such anti-democratic and anti-terrorist practices. But the pirates must know - and I separate them from schoolmen, school owners operating on the basis of the legality and the education programmes at the Ministry - that the guards are aware. Do not dare to play such a game at the expense of workers and the quality of education. I'm stressing it. The guards know. Ladies and gentlemen, there were no artificial surpluses in education. Proof is that we got twenty thousand eight hundred educational substitutes. So many people are missing from the organic positions and we will take the next three years, starting from September, as permanent staff. We do not like the perpetuation of substitutes, because it is a hostage status and also creates social problems. A girl who is a substitute cannot even become pregnant, for automatically leaving school. They don't give her permission, as in other cases, to be able to make her life. It is obvious that artificial surpluses have not been created. They are indeed the surpluses, and they are twenty thousand eight hundred positions. These and as permanent staff we will be taking the next three years. Ladies and gentlemen, there was a lot of talk about freedom of choice. First of all, to have freedom of choice, you have to have some money. I mean, not everyone has the ability to choose what they want. So it's not about the whole world. It concerns those who have this right of choice. Secondly, it is clear that the state, on the basis of the Constitution, and also the culture of the social state in modern capitalism, is obliged to ensure certain social rights. If he does not do so - in our day there is a retreat - this also undermines the conditions of social reproduction. In other words, he's biting his tail with a pharmacopoeia. So it is of great importance for many reasons, which concern the whole society, the whole progress of society, to find out that we need a new social state without the sufferings of the party that we know of the past, the ruptures, the remulsions, etc. We have no objections. We need a modern, social state. This requires a collective redistribution system and not everyone engulfing their "shoulder", voucher and going and shopping. This is not a society that collectively goes ahead. This is a fragmentation. It's an individualism that thing. We will not consent and we will be against even the idea that public resources, i.e. resources from the Greek people, can be privatised. We will be against paradoxicalism, paradoxicalism, that it is possible to have private education with state money. Because that means voucher, money from the state you take to give it to private education. Isn't that an idea? It's clean bills. Of course, private education with rules laid down in public education itself, but from there on it will not pay the public for the operation of the private education system. The public has to pay bravely, and this is where the restructuring is needed, the upgrading of the public education system. I'm being honest with a phrase. As Mrs Anagnostopoulou and Mr Pelogrinis said earlier, this bill concerns topical issues of educational importance. I would like to say that this bill concerns issues which bring us to the issue of the necessary democratic educational reform - some of them have been mentioned in the debate - such as the question of the change of high school and the examination of universities. I would like to say that this debate, like the others who will come in the context of the debate on democratic, educational reform, obviously focuses on the future of the new generation. They're the teenagers of the crisis. They're not children of prosperity, they're not children of rage. They are children with social and political experiences created on the trial or ruins of their parents’ certainty. They are children who have become aware of themselves through the tensions of state authoritarianism and repression, which disguises their hopes, but also shows them a nightmare, the nightmare they experienced with the murder of Alexis Gregopoulou. Each generation has its reference points, either as a collective way or as personal references. This is today's generation, and in this generation we must say that we recognise a stock, which can create important prospects for transformation in our society. This generation, we don't flatter it, we trust it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u576	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs is adjourned at the end of the debate: 'Conregulations on Greek-language education, intercultural education and other provisions', and they will be voted on separately.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u577	Mr President, may I ask a question here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u578	To whom to ask a question, Mr. Delis? The Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u579	No, I want to ask a point of order. We have here the scarce, we have the articles, which do not refer to an amendment. For example, Article 49...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u580	Look, you have taken the instant, as you said, into which the amendments are incorporated as articles in the bill. The vote that will be taken now is about the articles in the bill and then the amendments based on the numbers you know, the specific numbers, etc., not on the articles, as they are recorded in the insect. Understood?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u581	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u582	Good. We therefore move on to the vote on articles and amendments. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u583	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u584	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u585	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u586	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u587	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u588	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u589	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u590	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u591	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u592	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u593	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u594	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u595	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u596	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u597	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u598	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u599	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u600	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u601	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u602	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u603	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u604	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u605	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u606	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u607	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u608	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u609	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u610	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u611	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u612	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u613	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u614	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u615	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u616	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u617	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u618	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u619	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u620	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u621	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u622	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u623	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u624	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u625	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u626	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u627	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u628	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u629	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u630	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u631	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u632	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u633	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u634	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u635	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u636	Article 6 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u637	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u638	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u639	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u640	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u641	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u642	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u643	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u644	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u645	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u646	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u647	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u648	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u649	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u650	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u651	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u652	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u653	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u654	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u655	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u656	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u657	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u658	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u659	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u660	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u661	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u662	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u663	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u664	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u665	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u666	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u667	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u668	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u669	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u670	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u671	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u672	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u673	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u674	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u675	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u676	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u677	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u678	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u679	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u680	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u681	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u682	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u683	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u684	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u685	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u686	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u687	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u688	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u689	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u690	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u691	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u692	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u693	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u694	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u695	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u696	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u697	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u698	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u699	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u700	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u701	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u702	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u703	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u704	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u705	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u706	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u707	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u708	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u709	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u710	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u711	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u712	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u713	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u714	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u715	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u716	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u717	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u718	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u719	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u720	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u721	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u722	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u723	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u724	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u725	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u726	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u727	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u728	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u729	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u730	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u731	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u732	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u733	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u734	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u735	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u736	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u737	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u738	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u739	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u740	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u741	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u742	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u743	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u744	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u745	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u746	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u747	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u748	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u749	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u750	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u751	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u752	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u753	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u754	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u755	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u756	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u757	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u758	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u759	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u760	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u761	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u762	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u763	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u764	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u765	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u766	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u767	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u768	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u769	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u770	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u771	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u772	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u773	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u774	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u775	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u776	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u777	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u778	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u779	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u780	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u781	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u782	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u783	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u784	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u785	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u786	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u787	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u788	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u789	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u790	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u791	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u792	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u793	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u794	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u795	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u796	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u797	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u798	Article 24 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u799	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u800	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u801	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u802	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u803	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u804	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u805	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u806	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u807	Article 25 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 26 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u808	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u809	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u810	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u811	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u812	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u813	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u814	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u815	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u816	Article 26 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 27, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u817	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u818	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u819	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u820	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u821	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u822	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u823	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u824	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u825	Article 27 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 28 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u826	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u827	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u828	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u829	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u830	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u831	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u832	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u833	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u834	Article 28 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 29 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u835	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u836	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u837	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u838	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u839	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u840	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u841	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u842	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u843	Article 29 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 30 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u844	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u845	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u846	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u847	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u848	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u849	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u850	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u851	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u852	Article 30 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 31 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u853	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u854	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u855	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u856	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u857	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u858	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u859	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u860	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u861	Article 31 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u862	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u863	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u864	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u865	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u866	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u867	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u868	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u869	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u870	Article 32 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 33 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u871	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u872	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u873	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u874	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u875	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u876	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u877	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u878	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u879	Article 33 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u880	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u881	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u882	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u883	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u884	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u885	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u886	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u887	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u888	Article 34 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 35 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u889	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u890	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u891	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u892	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u893	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u894	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u895	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u896	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u897	Article 35 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 36 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u898	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u899	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u900	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u901	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u902	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u903	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u904	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u905	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u906	Article 36 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 37 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u907	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u908	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u909	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u910	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u911	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u912	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u913	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u914	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u915	Article 37 has therefore been accepted by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 38 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u916	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u917	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u918	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u919	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u920	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u921	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u922	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u923	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u924	Article 38 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 39 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u925	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u926	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u927	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u928	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u929	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u930	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u931	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u932	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u933	Article 39 has therefore been accepted as majority. We are entering the vote on the amendments. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number 638 and a special number 59, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u934	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u935	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u936	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u937	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u938	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u939	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u940	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u941	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u942	The amendment under a general number 638 and a special 59 were therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister by a majority vote, and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment, with a general number of 639 and a special number of 60?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u943	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u944	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u945	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u946	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u947	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u948	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u949	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u950	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u951	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 639 and a special 60 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of 640 and a special number of 61 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u952	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u953	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u954	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u955	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u956	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u957	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u958	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u959	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u960	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 640 and a special 61 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 641 and a special number 62, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u961	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u962	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u963	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u964	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u965	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u966	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u967	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u968	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u969	The amendment under general number 641 and special 62 were therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 642 and a special number 63 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u970	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u971	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u972	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u973	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u974	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u975	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u976	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u977	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u978	So the amendment under general number 642 and a special 63 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 643 and a special number 64?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u979	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u980	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u981	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u982	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u983	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u984	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u985	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u986	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u987	The amendment, under a general number 643 and a special 64, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment under a general number 645 and a special 66, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u988	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u989	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u990	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u991	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u992	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u993	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u994	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u995	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u996	The amendment under general number 645 and a special 66 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 644 and a special 65 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u997	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u998	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u999	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1000	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1001	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1002	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1003	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1004	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1005	Therefore, the amendment under general number 644 and a special 65 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 647 and a special number 68 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1006	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1007	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1008	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1009	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1010	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1011	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1012	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1013	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1014	Therefore, the amendment under general number 647 and a special 68 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number of 648 and a special 69 as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1015	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1016	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1017	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1018	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1019	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1020	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1021	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1022	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1023	The amendment under general number 648 and a special 69 were therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 649 and a special 70 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1024	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1025	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1026	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1027	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1028	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1029	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1030	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1031	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1032	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 649 and a special 70 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 650 and a special number 71 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1033	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1034	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1035	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1036	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1037	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1038	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1039	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1040	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1041	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 650 and a special 71 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment under a general number 651 and a special number 72 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1042	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1043	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1044	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1045	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1046	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1047	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1048	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1049	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1050	The amendment under a general number 651 and a special 72 were therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1051	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1052	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1053	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1054	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1055	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1056	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1057	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1058	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1059	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "Conregulations on Greek-language education, intercultural education and other provisions" was accepted in principle, on articles and amendments. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole? NICOLATOR: Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1060	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1061	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1062	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1063	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1064	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1065	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1066	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1067	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: ‘Agreements on Greek-language education, intercultural education and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority in a single debate, in principle, on the articles, amendments and all of the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1068	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1069	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-31-S1-commons.u1070	With the consent of the House at 22.15 a meeting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, September 1, 2016 at 9.30' on the subject of Parliament's work: a) a debate on topical questions; b) legislative work: a discussion of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance "Amendment of Law 4099/2012/A' 250 (incorporation into national legislation of Directive 2014/91/EU/L257) and other provisions" according to the agenda distributed.
