ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-12-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-12-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS I would first like to inform the House that the Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Kalogerou, informs the House that two questions will be answered and that 15 questions will not be answered. They will not be discussed as a result of an impediment to the relevant ministers and will be redefined for discussion the following topical questions: The second question under number 265/6-12-2016, first question by the Member of Parliament, Mr. Mavroudi Voridis, to the Minister of the Interior, concerning the murder of a gang against the Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - NLFK ATTI Thessaloniki, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of the Interior Mr. Toska, because he will be outside Athens. The sixth question under number 174/7-11-2016 of the Second Cycle of the MP Drama of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Karagiannidis to the Minister of Home Affairs, concerning the immediate resolution of the problems faced by firefighters five years of obligation, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Home Affairs Mr. Toska, because he will be outside Athens. The eighth eighth Question No 147/27-10-2016 (Second Chamber of Deputies) of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Lagos to the Minister of the Interior, on the destruction of the property of the Greek people caused by illegal immigrants in Moria Mytilini, Chios and other Aegean islands will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Interior Mr. Toska, because he will be outside Athens. The ninth under number 99-14-10-2016 a topical question for the second question of the Evia MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Michou to the Minister of the Interior, on the conduct of a thorough investigation into the extensive fires in Chios, Evia and Thassos will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Interior Mr. Toska, because he will be outside Athens. The third, with number 260/30-3-2016, a top-stage question by MP Halkidiki of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Saving Vlachos to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the hidden installation of illegal immigrants in the Paliura Egnomia in Thessaloniki will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister responsible, Mr. Mousalas. The first question with number 91/5-10-2016 by Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, New Democracy. Nikita Kaklamanis to the Minister of Migration Policy, regarding the program to rent apartments for refugees from the Athens Development and Tourism View Company (ETA) will not be discussed due to a lack of data from the Municipality of Athens. The fifth, under No. 270-6-12-2016, top-stage question by MP 2 Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Athanasios Vardalis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the problem of the employees of the Super Market "AFOES OF KARYPIDIS SA" will not be discussed due to an impediment by Mrs. Ahtsoglou, who is outside Athens. The first question under number 266-12-2016 of a timely second question by Congressman II of Athens, Nea Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister of Finance, concerning mismanagement issues in the Greek Defence Systems (ESA) will not be discussed due to the impediment of the relevant Minister Mr. Tsakalotou, due to a workload. The tenth under No. 157/31-10-2016 topical question from the MP Halkidiki of the People's League - Golden Dawn.Save Vlacho to the Minister of National Defence, on the immediate closure of borders, guard by the Armed Forces and a referendum on the illegal immigration issue will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of State, Mr. Vitsas, due to an extended service meeting in the Ministry. The seventh question by number 175/7-11-2016 of the Second Cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARK Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, concerning the need to immediately institutionalise the special non-confidential account for all businesses will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Papanatziou, due to the unsuccessful obligations. Eleventh question under number 208/14-11-2016 of the new Republic MP Drama, Dimitrios Kyriazides, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the award of wage promotions (classifications) to the members of the Armed Forces and the Security Corps will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Juliarakis, due to a workload. The twelfth, under number 62/10-10-2016, a topical question by Evia MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister of Home Affairs, on the displacement of 36,769 Greek children from the nursery stations will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Home Affairs Mr. Skourletis. The second, with number 261/1-12-2016, is a topical question for the second question of the Messinia MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Dimitrios Koukoutsis to the Minister of National Defence, concerning the tender for the rental of the restaurant at the NIMITS Hospital due to the obstruction of the Minister of National Defence Mr. Kammenos, due to unsuccessful obligations (visits to units). The third, with number 259/1-12-2016, is a topical question of the second question of the MP Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Haras Kefidou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the position of Director-General at the Greek Festival will not be discussed. The fifteenth third, with No. 235/21-11-2016, is a topical question of the second-round question of the MP Serres of New Democracy Mr. Fotinis Arabatzis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, regarding the abandonment of the radiant monument of Amphipolis will not be discussed. The first under number 267/6-12-2016 topical question of the first cycle of MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaou Paraskefopoulos to the Minister of Home Affairs on the publication of photographs of positive women will not be discussed due to lack of responsibility. Competent Ministry is the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights. The fourth under number 263/5-12-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on progress towards the completion of the Strategic Environmental Effects Study (MPC) with a view to the investment at the former Greek airport will not be discussed due to lack of competence. The Ministry of Finance is the Ministry of Finance. Finally, the fifth question under number 269/6-12-2016 of the new Member of Parliament II of the Independent Greeks, Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance, concerning the loss of revenues from the sharing economy, will not be discussed in consultation of the honourable Member with the relevant Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-12-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, can I have the floor for two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-12-S1-commons.u4	Please, Mr. Constantinople, what would you like?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-12-S1-commons.u5	Firstly, what we used to do with the previous government continues to be in the House of two Ministers and fifteen to be gone, each having a reason. But you should see this as the Bureau. You said, you said, you said, you said. You are bound, you are committed, you are committed. But I don't see any ministers. And a second, as far as the matter is concerned. Look, this is where the mockery has no limits. Fifteen days ago Mr. Tsakalotos came here, as a competent Minister, and said that all the co-legislative ministries, the Ministry of Culture, which is the Minister here, the Ministry of the Environment, work and work to resolve the Greek issue. I asked a question, which was a strategic study of the environmental impact, which is necessary to proceed with the project. This study is not done at the Ministry of Finance. It's happening at the Ministry of the Environment. Mr. Stathakis tells Parliament's services that this is not his responsibility. And because today you are President-in-Office in the debate, can you tell me what responsibility is, to ask a question? Please, I need an honest answer. Mr. Tsakalotos, nice with the "orangebirds", good all this will eat them, they will end, but tell us who is responsible. And I would like you to tell us, Mr President, to see what I am going to do as a Member of Parliament. Really, I'm waiting for an answer from you and you're going to give me the floor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-12-S1-commons.u6	First of all, the Ministry responsible refers to the Ministry of Finance. So Mr. Chakalotos, if he does not reply, he will answer, if he has responsibility, the Deputy Minister or the State Secretary. It is therefore the Ministry of Finance, in principle. Now, on the point you have raised, Mr Kaloger, who informs Parliament of what will be answered and who will not be answered, he should inform the Prime Minister of what is happening. On the President-in-Office's behalf, the Conference of Presidents decided that it would invite the ministers to declare, if they did not come, a date which would allow questions to go on the same date to the relevant Minister, namely that the Ministry of Finance, to be here today, Mr Tsakalotos, not to be a number of ministers, who can others. This is indeed a matter that exists because, as you know, the House has two main responsibilities, legislative work and parliamentary control. If there is no parliamentary scrutiny, then you realise that we are not working properly. So you're right. This issue will be resolved. I hope it will be resolved as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-12-S1-commons.u7	So, as a Bureau, you're telling me to...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-12-S1-commons.u8	Of course, that is the answer. The sixth question will now be discussed under number 264/6-12-2016. First question from the Member of the Hellenic Parliament, Mr. Konstantinos Katsikis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, about the transfer of Greek Students to Greece by the Italian University of Cameroon. The current question will be answered by the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Gavroglou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-12-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I believe that the content of my question is clear and understandable, so that I do not want to say much more, to suffice to say that the catastrophic earthquake that struck the city of Cameroon in the neighbouring country has led to difficult and adverse conditions being imposed on the Greek students in the city of Cameroon, both because the universities have been destroyed and because their homes have been destroyed, so that they are today faced with difficulties in continuing their studies, as well as in their living. Many of them have returned to Greece. Of course, I remember - and I would remind you too - that such an incident with major disastrous consequences had taken place in the past in 2006, when in the same country, in L'Akila, and it had prevented Greek students from the university of that city from being able to continue the studies, which had been started at that time. At that time, the government took a decision to ensure that this issue was resolved, and allowed the exceptional translations of all those - those - who, of course, wished - of the Greek students in the Greek universities. As far as this is concerned, you ask yourself, Minister, if in a similar way, you consider the possibility of the state - and, above all, the institutions, as you serve as Minister of the Ministry of Education - to do for the Greek students who studied in Cameroon and because of this natural phenomenon, the earthquake, have interrupted their studies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-12-S1-commons.u10	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-12-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Katsiki, the reason I wanted to answer this question is because the issue you raise is a specific case of a more general problem. The general problem is the problem of transcriptions. Unfortunately, I will be sorry, but the decision is that they cannot be transferred to Greek universities, mainly because the Italian authorities allow students, who are at Cameroon University, to go to other cities and continue their studies there. We have an extremely serious problem in Greece, students, who are studying away from home, with extremely serious problems in their parents, as well as a set of students - the President knows them, because of his profession - with serious illnesses, which cannot be away from home. At the moment, an excellent job has been done by the services, exhausting the limits of our capabilities, the limits of leniency within the legal framework, to make transfers. There are parts which have been unfairly burdened - parts in the large cities, as you can see - and this has brought a shocking workload to colleagues working there. We have two and a half thousand applications exceptionally from children with extremely, but extremely serious problems, from health to finance. Unfortunately, then, we cannot move on with something that I do not think makes sense. However, the request seems reasonable. I say that it does not make sense, because there is the possibility of going to other universities there, because of the earthquake which took place and which was a very serious earthquake and which brought too many disasters to Cameroon's own university. But I would really like to see the government's attempt to solve a problem facing the Greek society and the universities understood. Many universities in large towns now have asymmetrically many imports due to these special cases and, unfortunately, the situation of the Greek universities at the moment does not allow us to do so. I thank you, however, for the question, because I was given the opportunity to talk about our more general policy on translations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-12-S1-commons.u12	Mr. Katsiki, would you like to take a second time?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-12-S1-commons.u13	Yes, Mr. President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-12-S1-commons.u14	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-12-S1-commons.u15	Thank you. I, too, thank you very much, Minister, because you have indeed speeded up, in very short time, to find ourselves in this Chamber and answer my question, thereby responding to the agony of parents for their students. However, I would like to ask you, if you can review this decision, which you have just announced to us in this Chamber, in so far as the grief of possibilities you mentioned about the Greek universities, which are full of students, many of which - as you said - have been misrepresented, perhaps at the expense of others. And because the current government is trying to put an order, moving within the law, I would like you, as far as you can, to exhaust all possible efforts, once you have recorded those who would like, for reasons of their great difficulty in staying or relocating them to other cities, and to see whether they could eventually be absorbed. It may be, Minister, that the number is too small and does not stress the problem so much, that you and everyone could be worried and afraid of how to deal with it. The second thing I would like to point out is that the possibility of a Greek student abroad, in the case of the neighbouring country of Italy, to be transferred to another city, is not always possible, which he can use. The choice of the Greek student in Cameroon was made on the basis of those economic conditions that allowed him to be transferred there, because life can be cheaper, because it can be hosted, because the university can be more traditional and closer to him. There are many things that compose the image of a student's ability to go abroad. So these elements may be omitted and may not create a corresponding possibility and an equal chance of relocation to another university. With these thoughts and in order not to condemn those few who have proved themselves, who really have no opportunity to continue their studies, see if you can find a way and a solution, reviewing your original decision, reviewing the matter. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Perhaps at another time - not anymore in the form of a timely question, because you have given the answer - we can give these people hope to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-12-S1-commons.u16	Minister, would you like to comment?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-12-S1-commons.u17	Mr Katsiki, first of all, thank you for your understanding. I'm sure you're in contact with the students' parents. That is why I would ask you to transfer the climate of your position or your comment - and not mine - to understand that the argument is convincing. I would like to say that I have also studied the related cost of living in other cities, equivalent to Cameroon. There are many cities with many universities. However, if there are some cases where, as long as they were there or before there, some serious health problems have arisen, which have to do with local health services in Cameroon, and now there is obviously a difficulty with them being removed, because of these very special circumstances, I would ask these children to make an exceptional request. You are quite right that the numbers will not be large. If, however, we have to look at this, from a legal point of view, we always have a legal standpoint. Therefore, for those children who, whether they were presented as much as they were when they left here or in Cameroon, were those services that facilitated their everyday lives, because of obviously serious health, I think we should look at them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-12-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, too. We move forward with the fourth with the number 271/6-12-2016 topical question of the second question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the digitization of mobile monuments and the miserable working conditions called for by archaeologists to work. The question will be answered by the Minister for Culture and Sport, Mr. Lydia Conniordos. Here you go, Mr. Synergy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-12-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, over a year and a half, the Ministry of Culture has been carrying out the project "Digitalization of Mobile Monuments", sub-project II, a budget of about 3,300,000 euros, without VAT, in which some seventy archaeologists are invited to work throughout the country. There are very serious issues in this work with the delivery of the work to contractors and the application of terrible working conditions. A part of the project, of course, is carried out with the self-consciousness of PAMM, which is where there are serious issues, with delays in payments, with two-month extensions, holding workers hostage. The most serious problems, however, have arisen in the part of the project, which has started to be implemented through eight contractive and subcontracting companies, which are trying to impose labour relations beyond on the one hand and on the other hand to put thousands of euros into their pockets. In fact, with the tolerance of the Ministry's services, contractors are pushing workers to work at EUR 600 clean, with blocks or with proof of expenditure of EUR 980 net and uninsured, without the recognition of their pre-service, additional qualifications and ultimately their scientific work. Who says that to them? They are told by the partnership between “IKNOWHOW S.A.” and the PPE, which you know very well that it is at the University of Athens. I guess you know all that. In fact, you have also been filed with specific complaints. Therefore, it cannot "indifferently whistle" - to say so - the Ministry of Culture against this slave trade, with threats to workers of the style "or accept my terms or do not hire you". You need to get in position. You talk to the contractors and when workers ask you to come to the meeting you are doing - the Ministry - with the contractors, you refuse them. You, who say you're on the second, the first, left, etc., how do you mean the world of work? What secrets did you have to discuss with the contractors? The contractors refuse any dialogue. They refuse a meeting with the Association of Archaeologists, even though they have been constantly asked for. And, to say things by their name, they are specific IT companies such as GEOANALYS S.A.", "COSMOS BUSINESS SYSTEMS", "GLOBO", "IKNOWHOW S.A.", which I told you earlier, together with ELKE, "UNISYSTEM" with the sub-contracting company "POLYTHON". I'll bring you a very specific example. If the seventy contractors - each, together with the employers' contributions, etc. - they're given a month, say, 850 euros - that's easy! - then in total, if they work for six months, the amount is about 360,000 for all archaeologists for the entire duration of the project. The remaining 3 million, where are they going? Who's gonna take it? It's obvious the contractors will take it. I mean, parties on the backs, the agony and the trouble of the workers! It is therefore clear that these are the consequences of the archaeological works, the commercialisation of culture, which, of course, has been supported by the previous governments, and yours, too, continues with the undermining of archaeological services, with minimal funding. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We are asking you - and thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President - what measures will you take to ensure that all projects are carried out by the Ministry of Culture with staff recruited by the taxes and the relevant service of the Ministry of Culture, without the assignment of contractors? In particular, for the specific project of digitisation, the Ministry must change the terms and immediately open new jobs, in order for the employees to carry out this work in the ODAM. Also, archaeologists who will work in the work should normally be hired as archaeologists. They are graduates, they are graduates, they are doctors and they must be recruited under employment contracts and not as external partners - i.e. with blocks - with full insurance, wage and pension rights. It is important to take account of their pre-service and qualifications into account. Their contract must be equivalent to the collective labour agreement and so on. We have been asking for a very specific answer because this has been pending for a long time. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-12-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr. Synchronous. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-12-S1-commons.u21	Mr Colleagues, thank you for the question, because it helps us to clarify a number of issues relating to industrial relations. As you know, the Ministry of Culture implements the First Enforcement Programme, Sub-project I. This is the line of the Ministry of Culture. It prefers to be self-conscious, because that is exactly how it will define not only scientific excellence, but also industrial relations. But, as you know, the programme we are debating now has been carried out in the operational digital convergence programme in May 2012. The terms were then set and it was an obligation to continue the programme on the basis of these conditions. If the terms were changed, it would have to endure the program, so that Greece would have to pay what it had taken. Therefore, this change in terms cannot be done. As far as the meetings with contractors and workers are concerned, as far as I know, before I, Mrs Vlazaki, the Secretary-General of the Ministry, met both the contractors and the workers. He had given recommendations to contractors to observe the right ones. At this stage, however, the Ministry of Culture, unfortunately, can only make exceptions to the contractors because it cannot redesign the project. That is what I wanted to say to clarify what is happening to the Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-12-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-12-S1-commons.u23	Madam Minister, you have not given an answer. The answer, apart from being simple and brief, did not go into the substance of the matter. I will tell you that for many projects co-financed by the NSRP, large construction projects, the Ministry did what was going through its hand, did legislative arrangements in order not to endure the previous NSRP. It could therefore, in the time it takes, take all those measures to shape the work on other terms, but also not to endure. He didn't. Do you know why he didn't do it? Because what you said before is true. The Ministry, that is, the government, can only make exceptions to the contractors, not - let me say - "handle" to contractors. Is this the government of the first time left to only give insanity? So I say to you that there are already and I repeat that they are in your hands, archaeologists' complaints about contractors in Attica, northern Greece, Messinia and Crete. You have to tell us about them. They are contractors like the ones I mentioned in my prototype. The complaints are unbelievable. Listen to the stepping-up of workers and companies. Question to a worker to a company: 'Where does the sum of EUR 600 come from, which you propose as a wage?'? Reply of the company: "From the discount I gave to get the job off the labour market". Worker: "The contract does not mention that, but". Answer: 'If you have a problem, you should resign'. Another employee to the company: 'Why do we get EUR 670 out of 1100 mixed? A great deal of difference’. Reply of the contractor: "These reservations are due to contributions and cuts, as well as to the employer's contributions". In other words, the employer's contributions from employees! It's not just that, it's been incredibly afflicted by the workers. Kalamata - Athens - Kalamata, the company tells them. For nine months she has been in Kalamata, paying rent, moving to the end, saying "Come to Athens" and from Athens again "Go again Kalamata" for 750 euros. There are, therefore, too many complaints and one of them, for example, concerns the IKNOWHOW partnership and the PPE, which, as I have learned, has also been responsible for creating the information system. It has many issues this partnership should normally be out of work. While in the declaration these companies are obliged to provide equipment, they finally ask workers to use their own computer, their laptop. This is the partnership I mentioned earlier, IKNOWHOW and the PPE Group. Mrs. Vlazaki knows about it. I repeat, he must have told you this. In fact, Mrs Vlazaki, on the subject of contracts, had responded to the workers who visited her - indeed she was - that she can do nothing about the block because other specialities, such as engineers, are being paid for. Proof that there is full acceptance on the block, in the name of allegedly equality, while we are talking about a relationship of dependent labour. With regard to the time of the worker contract, the Ministry must clarify when this work will be completed. It's a very blurred landscape. The deadline for completion of the sub-project was until February 2017, that is, what Mrs Vlazaki says. However, there are workers who have not yet begun. So why hasn't it started? Is it the contractors' fault? They're pressing because they're waiting for them to get paid and then they're starting? What's going on? Give me an answer there, too. Therefore, Minister, I am reintroducing the questions I raised earlier, giving the Minister an opportunity to answer very specifically. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let me conclude, Mr President, by: I kept a phrase from you the other day from your position in the budget debate. Culture, you say, can give shape to chaos, express what cannot be said and which, many times, is also the most important. However, in the cultural sector, you have said absolutely nothing. So here's the chaos. Young people with degrees, doctoral, postgraduate, as a tool for contractors. This is also the chaos in the area of culture today. Here, what are your values? The values of the European Union have never been for permanent stable work, for peoples and others. This is the value of the European Union, the working jungle. Culture, then, is not the values that turn man into a tool. It is what the working man produces, based on the rules of his freedom and right. So culture is the objectiveed man and not the alien. To use a phrase by Magicovski, art must not reflect like a mirror, but, like a flashlight to magnify. That's the art. Can you serve her? In these circumstances and with your absolute submission to the European Union, the directions and institutions, you cannot serve it. That's why the workers will be on the road all the time. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-12-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. Member of the New Democracy MP Mr.Ioannis Andrianos is requesting a absence abroad from 22-12-2016 until 30-12-2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-12-S1-commons.u25	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-12-S1-commons.u26	Unfortunately, I have to repeat what I said, because I have explained on behalf of the Ministry that the Ministry prefers self-consciousness. But very often he cannot do it because of the nature of the works. He can't support them. The delays, to which you referred at the outset, are not due to the Ministry, but to delays in returning money from the NRP. For the second subproject, the contractors were selected following a competitive procedure. Assurance of scientific excellence was respected under strict conditions laid down by the Ministry of Culture. In this context, companies are recruiting the necessary staff. The adequacy of this scientific staff is controlled. There it is responsible for the Ministry of Culture, the adequacy of staff and its scientific adequacy. For industrial relations, when contractors are involved, the Ministry of Culture cannot intervene. It's the nature of the project. I repeat, it is not what the Ministry of Culture prefers. However, this project began in 2012, at a time of other governments, and changing terms and legal commitments and plans would bring about the necessary completion of the project and thus also the payment by Greece of the amount it had received.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-12-S1-commons.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-nine students and students and two educational attendants from the "Eleftherios Venizelos" of Chania. The House, guys, welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I have to tell you that it is the end of the parliamentary control session, where Members come and ask the relevant Minister for issues which are in place and get the appropriate answers. So you have attended the last minutes of the sitting, which is why there are no more Members here. I'm telling you, to let you know. It's not your fault, of course, it's your time. The topical and urgent debate is closed. The Minutes of Thursday 20 October, Friday 21 October and Monday 24 October 2016 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-12-S1-commons.u28	The Minutes of Thursday 20 October, Friday 21 October and Monday 24 October 2016 were therefore validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-12-S1-commons.u29	With the consent of the House at 18.44 the sitting for the next Wednesday, 14 November 2016, at 10 a.m., on the subject of this House's work, is closed: according to the agenda distributed.
