ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-07-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-07-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS First, I would like to inform you of the government change - which I will be tabling on the Minutes - which was sent by the Prime Minister's office. Two presidential decrees were published, 124 published in FEK 209/5-11-2016 which accepted the resignations of twenty-nine Ministers and 125 published in FEK 210/5-11-2016 which appointed thirty two Ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-07-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, the second Vice-President of Parliament, George Vartenmenos, seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad from 11-11-2016 to 12-11-2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-07-S1-commons.u4	The House therefore approved the requested permission. At the same time - I will read them to you later in detail - there is also the relevant document of the General Secretariat of the Government with the reasons why some ministers who continue to be in the same position cannot answer questions today. The rest of you can't because they've changed ministry and portfolio. So, to keep you from being late too, we begin with the seventh under number 85/11-10-2016 topical question of the second-cycle question of the MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Sakis Bardalis to the Minister of Health, on the problems of the operation of the Anticancer Hospital "Theamenio" in the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki. The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Paul Paulakis. I would also like to say here that the fourth question by the Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Cremastinos to the Minister of Health, concerning the scope for using telemedicine in Greece, will not be discussed, due to the impediment of the honourable Member in question. Mr. Bardalis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-07-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Madam President. The question concerns the Anticancer Hospital of Thessaloniki, the “Gaveline”. Mr Minister, taking into account the situation in this hospital, not only are problems not solved, not only does a situation become unstable, but is exacerbated further and new problems arise. In order not to speak in general terms, I would like to mention that the gaps in this hospital of doctors, nurses, technicians and administrative staff were around three hundred and have now become four hundred. Second, the U.S. Department's appointments are closed after a year and a half. Thirdly, in the Prevention Department - I stress - the gastrointestinal medicine and breast medicine are closed only three days a week. Fourth example: There is no central drug decommissioning unit. This is done by nurses, without having the corresponding specialty, with what this means to them - the responsibilities, namely, that they assume - but also to the patients themselves. Fifth, the PET machine, which exists and makes a CT scan, and provides for metastases, worked for four months with a radiopharmaceutical donation. Since last April, no one has been able to say whether it will work and when. Six, the short-term machine, which has radiation on the cervical arm, has been damaged for four years. We're talking, Minister, about an anticancer hospital. With all these examples, what does it prove? It turns out that we are going from evil to worse, that the deregulation plan, as you are saying, has no end. The responsibilities of your government, despite your announcements, are now enormous. They are huge, because you are pursuing, despite any individual administrative differences you may have with the previous ones, in essence the same strategy, the same health policy. We ask, Minister, the following: What is going to happen in this hospital, the "God" with the recruitments, so that the empty organic positions can be covered? Secondly, is there going to be maintenance and purchase of the necessary medical equipment to operate the specific machinery I mentioned? Thirdly, will the central drug dismantling unit be operational at the “The Watchtower” Hospital of Thessaloniki? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-07-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-07-S1-commons.u7	Mr Colleague, thank you for the question, because I would like to put a few things in place. Firstly, I would like those who inform you to be a little more objective. I'll start with a little mistake you're making. The empty organic positions are two hundred eighty-nine, not three hundred and fifty-one or four hundred. I'll start with what we've done and not just what we're going to do. In 2015 - last year - the hospital was planned to be subsidised by the government budget by the government of Mr. Samaras - Venizelos with EUR 21,078,000. Finally, along with the exceptional grant we gave last year, in December 2015, with EUR 22,818,000. This year, for 2016, it is sponsored with 23,596,000 euros. This is a first clear sample of financial support from the hospital. Also - because it doesn't only matter how much money you get, but when you get it - in October 2015 the hospital from the 21,000 euros planned and reached 22,800,000 euros, had taken 11,244,000 euros. This year, at the beginning of October, from the EUR 23,596,000 planned, it has received EUR 18,167,000. This is a clear normalisation of the flow of funding. Also, the hospital has so far been subsidised and has paid 8,121,000 euros from arrears of previous years. Of these EUR 8 121,000 are only EUR 43,000 more. He practically paid half of his old debts and this year, in 2016, not in 1500. It will also get another 8,000,000 euros with the second instalment of the maturitys and will pay off the debts it had so far. One prisoner is this, so we don't talk in the air. Secondly, in 2016 this hospital has been strengthened with the following staff: a ESS doctor, curator 2, from an old-time surgical proclamation, in which we “reversed life”, to say so, while there were no credits they were not hired. One has been hired and he is in the appointment process - one of these old notices - another seven. In fact, these are specialties that the hospital needs and nuclear medicine and oral, gynaecological surgery and so on. The evidence I can give you and see it. They were also declared and are in the crisis process - some are already over - eight permanent doctors since the seven hundred sixty that we had for all the hospitals in the country. They've been proclaimed, they've filed applications and they're in the crisis process. And that 2016 happened. And that's an aid sample. Secondly, four other auxiliary doctors - who are serving them - are a urologist, an X-diagnostic, an oncologist, and an anestheticist - were added to the ten who were already serving before and to whom we have renewed the term of office to the older I mean. Since the 4K and 5K notice of last October, four people have been employed. There are three others waiting for service. It has also been served by one of the 1998 SAAP competitions and is another four, who are in the FEK to publish appointments. Moreover, there are three more and three, a total of six individuals who, for three of them, come out of the results, the others come out this week, which is from the group of five hundred and thirty - eight, who will be recruited from the 4K and 5K tables. Do you understand? They are three ATE nurses and three ATO assistant nurses, hired by the rolling table of the previous notice. For the three who got the results, the other three are going out this week. Also of the remaining ones in the group of five hundred and thirty-eight are six other people whose position will be called: PP, medical device operators, computer, pharmacy and others. As far as subsidiary staff are concerned, the notice of other hospital staff, which we have announced since May, and with all this speedy bureaucracy, the PP and the radio radiologist are recruited in the next few days. The U.S. nurse and the H.S. medical assistant will be delayed a few more days because it is the process of checking the final table by the A.S.S.C. Unfortunately, we have confused this process to a certain extent, which is really outrageous. Now, you've said some other things that don't apply. First, no one buys drugs. With this money, no one buys drugs. He has the hospital and a limit of costs and credit, and he buys drugs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-07-S1-commons.u8	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-07-S1-commons.u9	I think you wrote it somewhere in the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-07-S1-commons.u10	I said about the PET machine.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-07-S1-commons.u11	I'll say it all. Don't worry. I'll answer everything. I'm not hiding anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-07-S1-commons.u12	Leave for dentistry, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-07-S1-commons.u13	No, I'll say it all right now. As to what you said about the ultrasound, you have been misinformed. You're saying waiting for the ultrasonic department is two years. That's not true. Instead of being re-checked in 12 months, it is fourteen. That's the reality. The recheckers, not the first date. In the ultrasonic section, the re-controls are carried out in twelve months, i.e. in one year, in fourteen months. That's the reality. Secondly, the prevention department at the gynecological clinic operates on a daily basis without waiting for the PPP test. The problem arises in the field of breast prevention, where waiting for one year is there. From there on, there's no problem, because the date's been straight in since they're gonna see you because there's a lot of traffic. Also, you will understand that there is a 30% increase in the external medical services of the surgical clinic for the breast department and there is a corresponding increase in the number of surgery because the hospital is actually working. Now, as far as radiation therapies are concerned: First of all, it is a hospital that does a hundred and fifty to one hundred eighty radiation treatments a day. It's a very large number and there's no long wait. It's in the month that's globally accepted. Also, these two machines are replaced by a donation scheduled for Stavros Niarchos Foundation. We have anticipated all the necessary staff, which must be there, and the process is in place right now. And they're going to get the first of this donation. Also, the hospital - because we found more skeletons in the wardrobe - took a decision from the board - and after consultation and with us - and it will repair the third cobalt machine, which is there, from the money, which is over five years from the last anticancer fundraiser. They have packed three and a half million - I think - that they have been sitting in the band and have not been using five years now. We instructed the anticancer hospitals across Greece to make us with a prioritization proposal to strengthen their equipment or repair or purchase based on their priorities. And one of the hospitals that will be strengthened by this story is "THEENIO". As far as the short-term treatment machine is concerned, I was informed that it is a failure that is not repaired and served by patients from other hospitals that have such a machine in Thessaloniki. On the issue of gastrointestinals that I think you have raised, patients are also covered. Preventive control is carried out at the normal external medical services within the hospital on the first Tuesday of each month of the month in persons belonging to high-risk groups of the colon. Control is also carried out every Monday, Tuesday and Thursday in the framework of normal external medical services in patients with precancer conditions of pancreatic, liver and colon. On a daily basis, the Intrascopic section of the Gastrointestinal Oncology becomes a preventive endoscopic check. Also, the Department of Oral and Gender Surgery you said in the question was not abolished, integrated with the HORL clinic. It's not gone. As far as the PET/CT system is concerned, this is the triumph of Greek bureaucracy. We solved that, too. There was a question of how it would be purchased, because the machine was intended to be purchased, but it was not intended - not entirely our responsibility - to buy the reagent, the radiopharmaceuticals. This issue has been resolved by moving codes from other hospitals and I think that by the end of the month, early December, PET/CT has been reintroduced. That's reality. I think that everything I have described is not a continuation of disaster, it is a very serious attempt to bring the hospital back. They don't make everything in a day and it's not too little of what was made in a year, when five years were destroyed. I think that thing you should recognize.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-07-S1-commons.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, fifty one student and two educational attendants from the 5th Stavroupolis High School of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] There are not many Members here today because it is a parliamentary control day for the ministers of the government. But because of the reconversion that took place on Friday, the ministers have changed and so they did not come. The new ones did not get to know the Members' requests and their questions so that they could answer them. So you see us being so few, but you can see the Chamber and the whole process, as it takes place when plenary is complete. Mr. Bardalis, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-07-S1-commons.u15	Minister, I can tell you in your reply - in addition to all others, I will say about the specific issues you mentioned - and a stress to be differentiated from the policies of the previous governments. Almost all the evidence you brought us was comparable to the previous ones. So what did you tell us? With what you said, you are essentially confirming the issues that we have raised in the question. You gave 1 million more last year and, as you say, this year, 1 million more than last year. And the situation changes? Is that financial support for the hospital? More generally throughout the country, you give the same money to hospitals on the basis of the preliminary draft budget you have submitted and discussed in the relevant parliamentary committee, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. And less money you give EPPY some 224 million, if I remember well. So you're giving the same money in total. But we, Minister, are not criticising you on this matter. Obviously in the management of health issues you have differences with the previous ones. We're not saying that thing. But move on to the same logic. What are you doing? You connect the issue of health to budgetary tolerance and profit. That's the point. In practice, what do you say? That, in any case, 'we're making some more recruitments'. You mentioned in this House a number of thirty doctors of various specialties, a few fifteen nurses - I say about this hospital - but without taking into account in those two years, in the twenty months, how many people were retired. Not only do you not cover the gaps that have been created over the last five years - in any case in a perspective, I am not saying directly, as you have said, nor do we ask for that to be solved immediately all the problems that have arisen over the last five years - but there is not even that prospect, because the combination - but it is still the same and it is not the difference between two doctors more or two less - is the substance. The point is that, as we link recruitment and more generally the financing of hospitals and health in general to the financial situation, we will say in practice: Work, make sacrifices to develop the economy, that is to say, to develop the profits of business groups and later, together with all the other things you have to gain, that is, some crumb from the table of business groups, will make health too. These things don't work out. That is why we say that you are following the same policy. You can't say, let's say, that a PET machine is not maintained and has this damage...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-07-S1-commons.u16	Not the PET. The chemo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-07-S1-commons.u17	It's not maintained. I'll take it. I'm not a technician, and I don't know what this is about. Why isn't it replaced, for example? What does it say'served by other hospitals'? I think that this kind of issue can be solved immediately. Finally, Minister, the information we have received from the workers' unions in this hospital. In any case, let me question it. I don't know who the evidence is. Apparently from the hospital administration. I believe, however, that the workers, because they live in there, are better aware of things and certainly are not wrong with that. Besides, in all the hospitals in Thessaloniki, I have evidence, above - below, these are the shortcomings. From 35% to 70% of organic sites are empty. I have these particulars. I can give you those too. Finally, Minister, your government may be twenty months old, but the interests of business groups, who are also active in the health sector, which in many cases are also managed by you, are old and tested, and they know how to claim their own interests, namely their profitability. The fact is that workers in general, but also in health, must be organized, fought against this policy, which connects the issue of people's health with the gain and how much the economy can withstand or cannot withstand. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-07-S1-commons.u18	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes, even though you said you took the time of your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-07-S1-commons.u19	I have to answer now, I can't help it. I must respond, because the constant invocation of ideological analysis does not create a political plan or a direct response to reality. If you have any assessment that in any other way, apart from the one we're trying at the moment, money can be given, you can tell us, but you don't. What's your proposal condensed to? Organize the people...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-07-S1-commons.u20	Shipowners' tax exemptions...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-07-S1-commons.u21	I heard you very carefully. What do you think? Organize the people and demand their own. I couldn't agree more. The question is this: to talk about reality and not about ideology: at the moment our country has this money. We are, yes - and we are not ashamed, we are very proud - redistributing in favour of the weaker, because if you did not get a hamburger that health coverage and free medical care to the insurers, regardless of whether they are insured or not, this is a very big cut. Aren't you saying 'all from general taxation and not from the insurance funds'? That's what we did, this SYRIZA government, that you call it, and you think we've sold them, etc. Is there a greater ideological division in recent years, translated into a political measure, which says that the uninsured person is covered, regardless of whether he has paid his insurance contributions? Isn't that in that direction? Which way is it? Backwards?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-07-S1-commons.u22	Who pays for this?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-07-S1-commons.u23	Wait a minute, Mr. Vardalis. Secondly, to speak with data, this is the first time from the existence of insurance funds and care expenditure, which the Catholic successor of the insurance funds has given up to October - if you find me another year, I will really accept, not to say a great deal of talk - and it has financed EUR 193 million of the RES’ hospitals with real money. The military hospitals have taken 49,886.050, the two universities have taken 1.5 million, the "Papageorgiou" has taken 27 million and the "Oonesio" has taken 37 million - beware - of the insurance contributions from the EEA. How many times have you and I said in the past that the money of workers who go to insurance must go to support the public system? Do you know what the last year's number was that we had succeeded after October? It was 80 million in total for everything. Do you know how much it was in 2014? It was 50 million. The best year for modernization, when the sausage dogs tied up, for the corresponding figure did not exceed 120 million. The best year, not with a million and a half unemployed, we have a reduction in insurance contributions. This is a clear illustration of the support of the public health system. Because we're giving money. They blamed us for "the money is being made". Now it gives it and we'll get to the ESS hospitals, because these payments, the 500 million euros, are scheduled. Now that this story is over and we are moving towards the end and the evaluation is over and the dose issue is over and tax revenue is going to go very well and all, this redistribution is going to take place. Because we're taking it in that direction. You also know something. Look. No, I don't give a base to the elements of the WTO. More than half of what I don't want to say is two-thirds, it's a lie. I'm saying it straight away. See the press releases that have taken out a number of hospital administrations, with data, not in general, see what happened and what the WTO said happened to these hospitals. Most of it's a lie up to the bottom. I'm not talking about primary unions, explaining why there are differences right and left. However, as far as I am concerned, the financial and staff issues are concerned, you have to recognise that five years were scattering the system. Now, since last year, it doesn't spread. Look at that. Thousands of auxiliary doctors have been on duty from October last year until May this year. That's a huge injection into the system. I'm not saying five and ten. I say a thousand two hundred all over Greece. That's a number. Secondly, seven hundred eighths arrived in service from the nine hundred eighteen and eighteenth and eighteenth. There are fewer than a thousand. Of the five hundred and eighty-five auxiliary staff, because that is where we're in trouble and the AACC is in charge of three hundred fifty-five. Not a few of them when they left every year. In order not to talk about CEDEFOP and the rest, and with all that war that took place there, that half have been served or with the refugee programmes and all the rest. These clearly show no same management, they show another direction, and that is what we will continue to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-07-S1-commons.u24	I will now read the timely questions that will not be discussed. The second question, under number 133/18-10-2016, on the management of the ‘red’ loans of the former ATEBank, will not be discussed due to the absence of the relevant Minister, Euklidis Tsakalotou, abroad. The third, with number 131/17-10-2016, a topical question for the second question of the Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarous to the Minister of Finance, on the legislative arrangement for extending approved expenses beyond hospitals, will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister, Euklidis Tsakalotou abroad. The first under number 155/31-10-2016 top-level question of the New Democracy MP Drama, Dimitrios Kyriazides, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the government's commitments not to suspend wage maturities and promotions to the staff of the Security and Armed Forces, will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister of Foreign Affairs Georgiou Huliarakis. The first question under number 156/31-10-2016 of a new Member of Parliament, Mr Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the delay in the payment of the pensions paid by the General Accounting Office of the State, following their accession to the Single Insurance Agency (EFKA), will not be discussed due to the misappropriated obligations of the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr. Petropoulos. The second one, with number 164/1-11-2016, is a top-stage question from the Member of Parliament, Eitolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Ministers of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction and Rural Development and Food, on tackling the problems of heavy rainfall in the Prefecture of Eitolokarnania, will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister. The fifth, with number 127/18-10-2016, topical question by MP Aetolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Nikolaos Moraitis to the Minister for Research and Religious Education, on the problems of student housing in the Epirus TEI, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. Finally, there will be no discussion of the sixth question under number 62/10-10-2016 by Evia MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Michou to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the displacement of thirty-six thousand seven hundred sixty-sixty-nine Greek children from nursery stations. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-07-S1-commons.u25	With the consent of the House at 18.45 the sitting for Thursday, 10 November, at 09.30, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: a debate on topical and urgent questions.
