ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: 'Agricultural cooperatives, forms of collective organisation of the rural area and other provisions'. At this point I would like to remind you that the Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 14 April 2016 to discuss the draft law in two meetings, today and tomorrow. If there is no objection, I propose that the draft law should become uniform at the outset, on the articles and on the amendments, as one section. This was also the unanimous decision of the Conference of Presidents. At this evening's sitting I propose that the rapporteurs, the special speakers and, depending on the number of Members on the list as speakers, give the floor to a number of Members, if there is no objection. We will begin by giving the SYRIZA rapporteur Mr Papanatziou the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u2	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u3	Of course, Minister. Mrs Papanatsiou, excuse me, but the Minister had asked for the floor to make some legislative improvements. Minister, here you go, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u4	Just my intervention is to announce improvements that, of course, we discussed at second reading. I would ask the honourable Members to be given to take account of their position and their improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u5	I would ask that they be distributed. The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mrs Catherine Papanatziou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill entered in plenary comes to finally lay the new foundations that the rural world and the cooperative movement so need. At the same time, a start is made to stop a fragmented approach to cooperation. One of the most important instruments of this government is coming to correct failures over many years, but also to give the necessary air to breathe the cooperative movement, the farmers and the country's rural women. I would like to point out here that it is a great honour for me to be here as rapporteur for a draft law on agricultural cooperatives, first of all because most of my careers have gone through the cooperative movement, much more so because of my origin. So I have the luck of coming from Almyros from where an early cooperative began, the Equatorial Agricultural Fund for Almyros, which was founded in 1900. In 1908 its statute was amended to highlight the concept of cooperative. The adjustment to the n is followed by the adjustment to the n. 602, published in the Official Journal of the Government at FEK I 118/1-1-1915, honoured as the first co-operative under the title: Agricultural Credit Co-operative of Almyros. So we reached the first law on cooperatives in the country. From 1915 to today we have a total of six laws: 602/1915...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u7	I'm sorry, Mrs. Papanaceu. I'd be beg for a little quiet in the Chamber. Warm request. Be quiet. Now we're just getting started. Ms. Papanaceu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u8	...L.1541/1985, Law 2196/1993, Law 2810/2000 and, finally, Law 4015/2011, which remained inapplicable to a large extent, and where it was implemented created more problems than cumulatively in previous years. While a hundred years have passed since the first legislative effort, we have not been able to give the necessary impetus to the cooperative movement, as the state in recent years has embraced co-operation only when it served specific interests, having the look on the partition benefits and profits. At the end of the day, the views of the competitive economic interests that deliberately produced the confusion of co-operation with party interests and ideologies prevailed. Even when the Constitution of the country recognized the role of co-operation in 1952, changing the behaviour of the state towards the cooperatives, it did not appear to be sufficient to have the big leaps needed. Unfortunately, the involvement of civil society at that time did not take place in order to make the cultivation of collaborative culture in the social strata most affected by the neoliberal growth model that prevailed since the 1970s. What has happened in the cooperative space over the past twenty-five years has been more defamatory about the idea of a cooperative than exemplary for society and for the rural world. Cooperatives are therefore a means of defending the economically weaker members of society. It flows from the middle and low folk layers. It is an initiative based on solidarity, self-energy and creativity. It is therefore necessary for the cooperative’s work to serve the directly concerned and not the cartels and civil servants. At the same time, this work must be long-term rather than the aim of the short-term benefit that is often easy, but it hides traps that may be straying and backward into multiannual efforts. We know that in one way or another, we are involved in the cooperative area. Therefore, the administration must exercise wisely, with foresight, without our eyes losing the strategic objective and role of cooperative. It must not be carried out by the administration in close agreement with the interests of the cooperative with the task of serving the elected managers. Collaboration is not a matter of a term, not even of a generation. It is a matter of many and even successive generations. This is where its social role is identified. It is precisely for this reason, colleagues and colleagues, that the bill lays down the maximum number for the office of Presidents in the cooperatives. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law makes an effort to unify the diffuse regulations and provisions on agricultural cooperatives. It is also the most indicative feature of the fragmentation of co-operation, but also of the party impulse that results in the abnormal operation of cooperatives and, by extension, in the production itself. We hope - and we believe it - that this attempt to put brakes on pathogens of the past in order not to be repeated. At the same time, we hope that, with the concentration of the largest part of the product produced, conditions will be created for strong, self-sufficient and economically strong cooperatives, which will be shielded against the challenges of the international context by gaining the comparative advantage, but also by the adoption of common cultivation methods that will tend to gain the quality advantage.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u9	Mrs. Papanachius, I'm so sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask those of you who wish to speak with each other, because you do not listen to the rapporteur, go outside and say what you want. Carry on, Mrs. Papanaceu.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. This draft law, ladies and gentlemen, looks forward to small and medium-sized farmers and rural women and is by definition class-based discriminatory. It is a bill that, for its success, requires the reconciliation of producer and society on the basis of the economy. There is a good attempt to strengthen these layers of production and indeed with a view to the future. To consolidate and legitimise cooperative schemes and respect for their autonomy, the draft law simply codifies the minimum necessary arrangements. The central administration must pave the way for the spread of cooperatives in the way that the first n did. 602 and always according to commonly accepted cooperative principles. If we really want all cooperative ventures to succeed and last in the future, we have to make a brave decision. This is no more than helping the cooperatives to turn to society, to institutionalise themselves through it, not to have their attention to the state. At the same time, the draft law seeks to deal with issues that have brought the cooperatives to bear with a new reality which no one can say was a consequence of a single specific policy followed. It seems to have been the result of growing state-of-the-art corporation, as the cooperatives seemed more and more tied to central power than to civil society. On the other hand, the cooperatives and cooperative producers themselves have failed to jam the society - and they themselves - cooperation and cooperation, often unintendedly because of lack of information, training and know-how, once again because of their personal ambitions, whether these were the political promotion or the choices of specific interest groups within the movement. Nevertheless, there were healthy organizations and little people. These organisations have been and are a bright guide, cooperatives with interaction in society that have restored the confidence of their members. This is exactly where I want to stand on an incision compared with the past. Ladies and gentlemen, a very important role in avoiding the above comes to serve the Fund of Agricultural Partnerships and Training. Its purpose is to monitor the implementation of cooperative education and training programmes in the first half of the term of office of cooperatives. The dependence of cooperatives, both on lending which is a chronic problem as on subsidies, has caused many obstacles to the autonomy of the cooperative movement. Dependence on bank lending, of course, is not currently a phenomenon. It starts a long time ago in the mid-war period, and peaks again in the period of the false promises of Greek capitalism in the 1990s. Here, too, we must note that after the agricultural Bank's sale scandal against a lentine billboard that triggered the interest rate ejection, the final blow to the cooperatives supplemented by the n. 4015. This bill provides the definition of a cooperative as an autonomous and voluntary organisation, while no cooperative steps are envisaged, but the creation of sectoral and national sectoral cooperatives which will enable them to benefit from economies of scale, as they will lower production costs by bringing a much larger share in the distribution of the product concerned. This will maintain their dual objective both in price restraint and in the protection of small and medium-sized areas from free competition, while at the same time delivering quality products to the consumer. The rules of the draft law simplify the setting-up of agricultural cooperatives and regulate the obligation on members to deliver most of their production, thereby strengthening their own business. At the same time, the democratic principle of cooperatives - one member, one share, one vote - irrespective of production volume, differentiating cooperatives from capital companies. A smart tool is also introduced to restore the liquidity and finance of organisations by members and friends of cooperatives, with the introduction of optional share without voting and election. In addition, arrangements are made to resolve the chronic problem for producer markets, farmers market. Ladies and gentlemen, we need the producer cooperatives, which will not only concentrate production, process it, pack it and standardize it, but will also trade it. We need cooperatives present throughout the production process. We want the co-operative traded products with brand name and a protected designation of origin for the development and promotion of local society and domestic production. We want the cooperative that interacts with society and is part of it and at the same time will be contrary to free competition. The producer cooperatives will be able to deal with large capitalist companies, multinational companies, monopolies, oligopolises, cartels, free market and globalised economy. The production cooperatives can, to the most efficient extent, combine production factors while at the same time they can create a social organisation for the transport of agricultural products to national and international markets. Last but not least, it is the provision of regulation for women's cooperatives for the first time. Women's cooperatives are the main means of emanating the Greek rural woman. Since the 1990s when they began to be founded, they gave impetus to women's entrepreneurship and highlighted the special cultural heritage of the Greek countryside. Unfortunately, their growth has been halted as they have faced problems similar to those of the other agricultural cooperatives. The small number of women's cooperatives in relation to the possibilities that are only proud cannot make us. I imagine the popular saying 'the first 100 years are difficult' is true here. Nevertheless, our mindset could not do anything other than pay particular attention to the farmer. It's too late than never. Ladies and gentlemen, cooperatives are not an object that we can describe in words. According to our perception, it's more than that. It's a relationship between people. It is a mutual and non-intermediate relationship between producer and consumer. Cooperatives fulfil in their field of action the coverage first and foremost of the basic and economic needs, the weaker productive strata, thus fulfilling a very familiar social purpose, that of promoting with solidarity between social interests. It is ultimately the release of the "we" against the "I" and the prevalence of collective versus the individual. Well, that's a good start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Papanatsiou. Before giving the floor to the next rapporteur, Mr Vlao, from New Democracy, let me announce the parliamentary representatives appointed by the parliamentary groups. It is Mr. Socrates Famelos from SYRIZA, Mr.Ioannis Vroutsis from New Democracy, Mr. Ilias Panagiotaros from Golden Dawn, Mr. Theocharopoulos from the Democratic Asylum, Mrs. Manolakos from the KKE, Mr. Danellis from Potami, Mr. Kokkalis from the Independent Greeks and Mr. Karras from the Central Association. There are twenty-three amendments to the whole. There were twenty-four amendments, but one withdrew. They are four ministerial and nineteen parliamentarians. As far as the ministers concerned are concerned, I should like to inform you that the Ministers responsible or the Deputy Ministers have already informed us that within the next two hours they will come to Parliament to support the amendments they have tabled. As far as the Members of Parliament are concerned, Mr Minister, tell the House when you are counting on announcing what you are accepting. Today, tomorrow? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u12	I would like to inform the House that because there are two - three issues that arise particularly from the Scientific Committee's report, there will be two - three interventions still tomorrow morning when we begin. Because at some point we must start to respect the whole function of Parliament. At the same time, it will be announced tomorrow morning which of the Members' amendments are accepted and which are not accepted. The amendments tabled by Ministers have been tabled with my agreement, provided, of course, that they will come to support them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u13	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u14	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u15	As I said, we have already been told that the respective ministers who will come to support their amendments have set some time to come. Mr. Brutsi, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u16	Mr President, I would like to speak for a few seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u17	Here, Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u18	On the occasion of what you have said about the amendments and what the Minister has said, I would like to mention once again the inadmissibility of the procedure: twenty-three amendments, four ministerial, nineteen Members of Parliament. We arrive in plenary today, 18: 00 hours this afternoon, we do not know which of the Members will be accepted, it is a political struggle within the SYRIZA Government and negotiations with the ANELs and you have Parliament in the dark. It is unacceptable, Mr President. I would like to condemn this methodological process once again, the unacceptable process, which only does not contribute to the democratic process of the institution. It is something that is downgrading the whole parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u19	Mr President, please, I would like the floor for a minute on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u20	What do you want, Mr. Famele?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u21	Please, if you want to remove it from my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u22	You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u23	We thank the Bureau for its attention. I think that on a point of order we should limit the New Democracy colleagues to supporting the democratic functioning of this House, because if they raise an issue against MEPs' positioning and tabling amendments, they violate the Rules of Procedure, violate democracy and challenge them to check the timeliness of the amendments that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u24	I'd say so, Mr. Felmelle, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u25	And, unfortunately, Mr Brutsis is also presenting his parliamentary course so far by putting a matter out of the loop.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u26	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u27	What's personal now, Mr. Brutsi?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u28	I'd like the floor for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u29	Let me talk. Sit down, relax. You didn't let me finish. Immediately you wanted to intervene. I wanted to add something about the amendments. Irrespective of the content of the amendments, the parliamentary amendments, except for the fact that they were late, all the others were time-consuming. As far as the question of their contents is concerned, this is another matter. So the Minister said earlier that as far as the parliamentary committees are concerned tomorrow at the beginning of the sitting he will announce what is acceptable and what is not. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Vlachos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is another attempt by the government - it has been customary for the last time - to set under its close control the way in which the agricultural cooperatives operate and run our country. This is clearly an attempt to abolish the self-sufficiency of agricultural cooperatives, with many of the provisions that it includes in far too far away from the values and principles of cooperation. This bill is extremely intervening in their operation. Continuingly, it seeks the autonomy of cooperatives as legal persons under private law contrary to the spirit of the provisions of Article 12(4) of the Constitution, as the State fails to ensure that cooperatives are developed and provides for a stimulus to participate in their management bodies. It is obvious, Minister, that you are intervening in the elections. You're interfering with the ballots. You're interfering with the crusade. You're interfering with the general conventions. All this could well be regulated by the statutes of each club, and it is not necessary for all agricultural cooperatives to have the same statute. It cannot, I should not say, interfere with their function and action. The detailed description of how the electoral process is conducted, as reflected in the provisions of the bill, concerns all those who believe in co-operation. Are agricultural cooperatives, associations, or business units for you, for you? You should know that those who collaborate, do it to increase their income and not to make politics, much more to make party politics. Ladies and gentlemen, it is common knowledge that the cooperative movement, which has always been an important economic and development tool in the hands of farmers, has largely been devalued. That is why it is our duty to put forward proposals for the consolidation and reconstruction of the collective forms of organization of farmers. In this direction the state, Minister, should set the framework within which agricultural cooperatives will move in order to clean up and reform themselves. On the contrary, you're trying to change the political connections. We want each agricultural cooperative a voice. You seek asphyxiation, which leads to the liquidation and dissolution of them. ‘Innovation’, ‘enterprise’, ‘investment’, are fully absent from the provisions of this Law. So how is it possible to talk about remodeling and new ways of working agricultural cooperatives when you have not made the least reference to concepts such as increasing productivity, increasing turnover, strengthening and spreading the sales networks, and modernising their facilities and how they operate by adopting modern methods of production, processing and marketing agricultural products? On the contrary, you choose to introduce asphyxiary restrictions on the way in which production and economic activity operates, in an institution that has to operate on private economic criteria. Any weaknesses in their operation are not solved by your own interventions. For example, in any Greek law, there are no provisions for a commercial legal person imposing a summary operational plan on him as a condition of registration in the National Register and therefore as a condition of his or her legal function. In fact, for the recognition of agricultural cooperatives, you are asking for a three-year operational plan for its operation, describing its activities in specific sectors of production, the quantities to be managed, the planned actions and any investment plans that it intends to undertake in order to implement. The agricultural cooperatives will therefore be subject to an appropriate control of activities and limitations on them at the Ministry's request, by approving or not their business plan, thereby leading the cooperatives publicly controlled and directed throughout their entire range of activities and not just subject to legal control, until which we could agree. You are thus effectively abolishing the autonomy of cooperatives by violating all the cooperative principles invoking the explanatory statement in the bill itself. In fact, the information submitted by the agricultural cooperatives will be verified by the competent authority and, based on their quality, the agricultural cooperatives will be entered in the register or not. It is also incomprehensible to provide that by decision of the Minister for Rural Development and Food, the type and minimum content of the contracts per agricultural product may be determined, which will prevail any opposite will of the parties. I am talking about contractual agriculture. Will the interested parties - as I said yesterday - decide whether or not the Ministry or the interested parties? Where did you see these? I'd dare say if you're serious. Is it possible for the Minister to decide on the commercial contracts of farmers? Is that a reform? It's obviously an intervention. Intervention in the field of the agricultural movement and agricultural cooperatives. Your current initiative is therefore exhausted in drawing up provisions of earlier laws without beginning and end. From such a legislative initiative, I imagine no one expects any result that will boost growth. So you're obstacles and you're not making it easy for the simple farmer. Confusion, insecurity, reflection and frustration extend to the rural world. It is a joint statement, Minister, that there are healthy and problematic agricultural cooperatives. Healthy people didn't ask you for anything, or rather they asked you not to interfere with them and not to play with their interests. For everyone else we can talk about. We can talk about their resolution and their sustainability. The role of the state, especially for the rural economy, should be to create a modern development cooperative model, adapted to modern requirements and not to propose provisions of another era that form a culture of state custody and dependence on members of cooperatives. You, obviously, have another point of view. The state enters, indirectly, the administration of agricultural cooperatives through innovative cooperative education, which will be implemented exclusively through the State Cooperative Education Fund. Anyone who does not train as you wish, will not be able to stand for the cooperatives. At the same time, there are other cases of State intervention in the administration of agricultural cooperatives, such as the provision of two terms of reference for the presidents of agricultural cooperatives, the declaration of performance of 80% of production, and the statement of assurance - the tragic - of supply of supplies. The President shall attest and the President shall receive the certificate to register the member or not. There is no need for law, therefore, to impose the 80% delivery of production. That may be the case, I have told you, the statute of each agricultural cooperative. But there too, where production is imposed at 100%, such as forced cooperatives, you still don't like it. Today, you're coming to overthrow it. The whole spirit of the bill faces the agricultural world from a high level, since, in fact, you have accepted unilaterally that farmers do not know their good and you come to show them that. Unfortunately, you're making a very big mistake. We believe that farmers must be modern businessmen and that they have the knowledge to protect their interests. We have seen in the last moves young farmers speak with knowledge and experience. These farmers, the government, because it cannot help them, has no right to prevent them. In these circumstances, therefore, I fear that not only are you going to solve problems in the industry, but you are actually creating a series of new ones, mainly the strangle of cooperative entrepreneurship. Can we agree on a framework law for agricultural cooperatives? Can we agree that agricultural cooperatives are business, produce, process, trade their agricultural products, with an incentive to profit and increase the incomes of their members? Can we agree that agricultural cooperatives can do retail, if they so wish, interfering with supply and demand, improving prices for the benefit of consumers? Can we agree that agricultural cooperatives are financed like all private enterprises, with their profits and their losses? Can we agree that the State supervises and does not intervene? If we agree on all of this, if we agree on this, then you would not be interested, gentlemen of the government, nor would the number of founding members, whether men or women, or what they are producing, and how they move it from where they supply their supplies or how many terms of births the President will make, or whether the members of the agricultural cooperatives or the terms of their contracts are trained. However, we really need to acknowledge that you have taken steps forward, as it is true that from the state planning you believed, you have come to talk about private initiative. And with the time you have taken, without knowing the functioning of the free market, you are at risk of going to the other end. Because you, Minister, are just talking about private initiative, you're just talking about a private economy, you don't believe it. That is why you will never understand how a business can and must operate, how a cooperative can and must work, how the cooperative movement can and must work. It's not a syndicate. It's entrepreneurship. And that difference you won't understand, I'm afraid, ever. Activities like the ones you legislate are the ones that have led the cooperatives to extinction. Trading with loan and anguish. That's what the cooperatives did then. It's safe trade, but it can't be. It distorts the market rules, leading it as a whole to marries. Production - I told you yesterday in committee - needs a vision and trade wants a risk. Those who forget that simply manage misery and despair. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the government is confusing government supervision with state planning. It leads the agricultural cooperatives back to lending. What about all this? The answer is simple. The authors of the bill and, of course, the government, which brought this bill to Parliament, are interested only in the press and party regulations. While you are concerned with the ruins of state-owned co-operation and subsidies, lost loans, our country's farmers through healthy economics, I mean, self-government cooperatives and producer groups are trying to penetrate through their exports to the world's markets. Mr Minister, whatever the thoughts of the governments about this bill, they are being disproved as nothing is achieved about the agricultural world and you will simply be talking about a law which will in practice prove to be empty. So you will have the mark of attempting to control the cooperative movement and will not relieve you of your responsibilities for your behaviour towards the agricultural world and above all will not save you from the reactions of the producer organisations. It is clear that we are approaching things differently. In conclusion, I would like to remind you, seeing Mr Kostas Tasouula, a verse of Kostis Palamas, which says: "It is not enough for the sun to give solitude, and more is needed, especially knowledge." Although a geopole, I tell you, the monopoly of knowledge has no one. My experience tells me that as a geoponder I gave and got to know from the farmers. This experience teaches me to respect them and serve them. I wish the current government had done so. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind all of us that things, as someone has said, are fortunately changing. So soon your political defects, Minister, will collapse, so do not financially burden the place with meaningless and inappropriate regulations. The aim of the next government will be to correct errors, omissions, injustices that today the juncture allows you to legislate. And of course, as a New Democracy, we will vote against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr. Vlavo. The reason is the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Shahinides.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u32	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened with great interest to the Committees on Agricultural Cooperatives, and I honestly do not understand what is different from what SYRIZA has to propose today. This bill is governed by the logic of the free economy and the free market, and it seeks to make cooperatives private companies, since a private company is always intended to be healthy and to defend its interests. However, strong state intervention is maintained with the proposed provisions. Free economy, however, is also incompatible with State control. I do not understand, however - although I have studied the explanatory statement - what is it that you are seeking to amend the existing law? The operation and action of cooperatives should also be your main concern to provide incentives for tax incentives and others to involve more farmers in agricultural cooperatives, to create a climate in order to support rural development and to promote production in international markets. Instead, what are you doing? You retain the right to interfere with the State or better with every aspect of the activity, you are trying to combine the private sector in the sense of profit with the direct involvement of the Government. Of course, this is inevitable because all you are after all seeking is to create your own party mechanism, your own army, as the PASOK and the New Democracy have successfully done all the previous years. It is therefore inevitable that, when your counsellors are not one of the old-fashioned and state-owned PASOKtzids, the proposed provisions should aim not to develop cooperatives but to maintain small and well-controlled cooperatives. A concept of state dependency is formed on the members of the cooperatives. It is unprecedented for European data to be defined by law when a rural cooperative will hire a manager, who will elect management bodies, how and who will cooperate, who will exclude. These are issues that strictly relate to the statute of any agricultural cooperative. Minister - since the writings remain, page 98 of the 128 out of the irreversible Minutes - you told us the day before yesterday: 'My dear colleagues, because it is always my will to approach reality, so' take care, 'I am obliged to adapt to a situation which I myself may be against, but unfortunately that is the reality.' What does the Minister admit? That the draft laws you have brought us as SYRIZA - ANEL are not your own policy but are a purely European Union line. These, Minister, you had to say beforehand that you will not pursue a policy of the SYRIZA, but you will pursue the policy of the banks, the loan sharks and your orders in general. I come to what was said a moment ago. You continue below: "Look, especially the issue of fragmentation was a feature of the previous operation." In other words, you blame those who ran before you, the New Democracy and the PASOK. "So, by saying to reduce as much as possible the members, we actually end up in a fragmentation that does not in any way help co-operation." Since no fragmentation is to be carried out, why, Minister, with this bill and Article 33, do you want to abolish the only healthy cooperatives currently in existence in Greece? You yourself said that from all the active agricultural cooperatives only the twenty pan-Hellenics are healthy. As far as we know - and all honourable Members know - the four compulsory cooperatives correspond in proportion to one/5 of healthy ones. These forced cooperatives, which should be a model in order to be able to make an institutional legal framework on which other compulsive mergers would also work, are abolished. But you are not telling us the reasons here. As far as we know, of the three thousand members of the forced cooperative in Samos, three have been appealed. We are talking about one thousand in total. We should probably start looking into which Member of your Parliament, Minister, comes from that region, otherwise these things are not explained. We have listened carefully to the rapporteurs and speakers from all parties. I was really impressed by the special speaker of the Communist Party, Mr Nikolaos Moraitis, who referred to two specific issues. One has to do with PASPEGES fired, who are twenty-nine. Mr. Moratis, you have a short memory. What was your position for the two-two-thirty-three-documental sacks? What was the end really? I think your Secretary-General, Mr. Koutsoubas, was inside them and had stated on Mr. Hadjikolaou's show in February of '14 that they had a survival problem, even himself, and that they were unpaid for eighteen months.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u33	Let go of the mud. Rescind. You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u34	I'm not rescinding. It's from your blogs on the Internet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u35	Don't give me that! They were all paid until the last euro.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u36	Keep an eye on what you're making. You also referred to a match, about the roadblock of Nice. We're not talking about games here. We have all seen very well what happened with the struggles that the Communist Party has given.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u37	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u38	Mr President, please tell him to stop. We have seen how the Communist Party, the long hand of the system that we have known for many years, sells out the struggles. We have seen how seventeen large tractors have entered - we know very well that the owners of such tractors are big farmers - and they have broken down the protest of the farmers who had taken place here in front of the Constitution. Today, I have also received a complaint with AENAL, the Ambiguity Society of Prefecture of Lesvos. It was a prefecture company. Its purpose was for seminars and training. However, it also had two stores - and it has a direct relationship, Minister, with the agricultural cooperatives - one in Athens and one in Mytilini, with local products from Lesvos, Lemnos. These products were supplied by women's cooperatives who were not paid, but paid VAT and there is a legal dispute. From this "AENAL" the "LESVOS SHOP SA" had also taken a money packet that paid for them in cash and received as a loan from the Bank of Lesvos - Lesvos. Chairman of this board of directors was former prefect and former member of the New Democracy, Voyatzis Paul, and Treasurer was Samiotis John. This case, as I told you, has gone the way of justice. They waited for the partners when the errand was going to come out, but, unfortunately, this was stuck because a Minister of Justice came from this island. I have my information at your disposal, Minister, - telephone numbers, names, names, names, no anonymities - so you can tell us, anyway, where this case is, and protocol number 9208 is and is in First Directorate. The Minister is already aware of Mr. Paradise. They must be answered sometime. Let's go to the articles. We have Article 4. The amendment you have brought us, Minister, does not change anything. We are talking here about the members who need to exist to operate a rural cooperative. You made some changes, some changes. There should be no limit, Minister, except for the island regions. You also exclude Evia, an island that morphologically, like Crete, you know that, it's not flat, it's not something but morphologically has many mountains. You have not taken into consideration, from what I saw, the population at all, you have not received the road networks at all. They should be completely free. I think that this also applies to the European Union. Why would this restriction exist? Think in a municipality or a county, for example, of Halkidiki which is morphologically mountainous, except for the beaches, how difficult it is for a cooperative to act when in a village ten producers cannot be found to establish a cooperative. You should get this back and change it, let it go. As far as farmland and their supply, referred to in Article 8, is concerned, it is also mentioned that farmers should deliver 80% of production. We have told you in committee, Mr President, that we are fully in agreement and praised, it is right. It is enough, of course, for the rural cooperative to be able, in some way, to assure the cooperatives that it will absorb all their products. As I also told you that it is not possible for a rural cooperative to force the partners to supply agricultural products exclusively from the cooperative. There could be a provision here, as I said, that in the event of an invoice for farmland of the same kind at a lower price for the agricultural association to return the difference directly to the partner. In Article 45 we actually had various e-mails from many zoo-friendly companies for paragraph 6. Some were asking us to vote against, some were asking us to vote in favour. But you yourself, Minister, told us that you repeatedly, in your efforts to bring them in touch with two zoo-friends, could not make any difference. But this is not a question of which of the two, three, four zoo-friendly clubs is right. Other more serious issues are being raised. There must be a safeguard in terms of the adoption of these animals abroad, from whom it will be adopted, if these animals will be used in experiments, if these animals will be used as food - you know very well what is going on in Asia - and if these animals will be used for various purposes by the German and other northern Europeans who know them very well. Article 46 for the ELGA refers also to the recruitment of seasonal staff. That's right. I wish this intake could put an end to bureaucracy, Minister - and I told you in committee too - that damages should be recorded and attributed immediately. Unfortunately, because a number of colleagues were not in committee, they should be aware of how the ELGA works, at least today. I wish all this would be changed and corrected. The ELGA - for those who do not know - is the body that records and compensates damage to agricultural production and not just. The ELGA is based and draws conclusions on a regulation. This regulation changes, adds or removes some things in consultation with the same farmers. This, unfortunately, has been happening since 2008. I said one example to the Minister in committee: Imagine a farmer, who plants a production and has paid the premiums, has done the OSCE statements, since in three years' time he has produced, after two or three more years, if he is damaged or if some natural disaster occurs, such as hail, rainfall or if he has not been fertilisation - the known incarnation - he will learn, after paying for five, six, seven, eight consecutive years, that this variety is not foreseen under the regulation to be compensated. This is absurd, Minister. There must be an amendment immediately, which tells us that any production from the moment it is accepted by means of the OLAF declaration is also part of the ELGA Regulation book. It's absurd for someone to pay and not to be compensated. It's like insure my car, and when I crash, I hear I hit the wing, but it was only the hood. That's what you're telling us, Minister. It's gonna have to change all of this. You referred to education and training for the partners. You told us that this would happen through 2% of the surplus. However, in the institutions we have heard the position of the President of the Velvet Agricultural Partnership that this is not the case, because the surpluses are completely sharing with the beneficiaries. I had made a proposal here, Minister. Education should be reserved for the Greek state alone. In fact, this is what we anticipated as Golden Dawn. We have said that it would be good to become a rural high school in every county, which also covers logging, apiculture, livestock, fisheries, because the rural world has too many branches. So, what are we gonna do? The real training of young farmers who want to be involved in the cultivation of land, but also of older people who, by attending these courses, on the basis of their own experiences, will be able to provide younger people with better information on developments in technology and on new crops. In Article 47, which refers to organic producers, there should be a small change here, Minister, as I have said again and in the committee, which provides that the producer of organic products can only enter the markets of the Region of Attica and the Thessaloniki Prefecture to sell his products together with other producers of conventional products. This should be abolished and allowed by the producer of organic products - which we do not forget are very few more in Greece - to be able to access all the people's markets. It is also something for which I have never understood the logic, no matter how many committees we have done. I do not understand why it is forbidden for the Chair of the Supervisory and Administrative Board after two terms of office to redeem his re-election. In other words, you are telling us that to a president who had a successful term in any way he has managed to make profits - and we have examples, as I have said, of forced cooperatives - it will be forbidden. We will play the krone - letters if the next one, Minister, is to be glutton or if he is a good man, honest to the farmers he represents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u39	We continue with the special speaker of the Democratic Partnership, Mr. Jelloney.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to understand how important the draft legislation we are discussing on the agricultural sector is, we must first of all respond if there is a need for a cooperative movement and collective forms of rural organisation in the current state of the country, particularly with the economic crisis and the problems that are created in the agricultural sector. I would like to say 'yes' because it is not possible to produce a strong agricultural production unless there is a possible cooperative movement at the same time. Otherwise we will be an originality, not only European but globally. Does today's cooperative, in the form we know him at all levels, perform its role? Unequivocally, 'no'. Do we know how the cooperative movement has been driven here? After a course of forty years it is inconceivable that we do not know the reasons for the cooperative movement, and we all say them: unstable institutional framework - six times it has changed in the last thirty years - tight state embrace, which acted as a belt to transfer the state's mandates to cooperatives, embrace party and partisanism of the cooperative movement, easy lending and non-controlling of money, mismanagement and abuses due to non-controlling. Does today's bill we're discussing solve all this? In fact, by studying the bill under discussion at first I assumed that it was rather out of total ignorance of the institution by the authors of the bill that came from such a bill. But no. This draft law reveals in the most obvious way the true political character of SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence, that is, it does not believe in the institution. Indeed, after having defrauded farmers and farmers with the election announcements, after having blocked any financial and investment activity with the capital controls, after having to date legislated a series of tax and social charges - that is, since you have taxed our export products - such as wine - after having made farmers forget the cost of production at the rate in agricultural supplies to 23% - and from now on to 24% - and especially its development component - that is, the Agricultural Development Programmes - that is, since you have taxed our export products - such as wine - after having extinguished the cost of production at the rate in agricultural supplies to 23% - and from now on to 24% -, since you have extinguished the possibility to one of the livestock farmers - since you have not control over the milk imports and have approved the OECD's surplus of 23% other agricultural supplies, and from today, since you have close the farmers's farmers' quotas to an increase of no more than they have been paid for them - since they have been paid off the farmers' income, as well as they have been paid for them, as part of the farmers's farmers' incomes money, as well as well as well as they have been paid out of them, as if they have been taxed and have been taxed, as they have been taxed and have been taxed, as if they have been taxed for their taxed for their taxed and have been taxed away from their taxed away from past. The conclusions are inviolable: You are reversing the primary sector and you want to punish what is productive in the country, dissolving instead of modernising, reconstructing an economic development institution that is a tool for the farmer, such as the cooperative. Instead of discussing today, after what the government has legislated and what will legislate on how to exalt cooperatives and strengthen them with fiscal and development incentives, as well as producer groups and interbranch organisations, in order to mobilise their members for a union of productive and commercial potential for better income and rural development, with this bill, which is governed by a strong state of affairs ineffective and disgusting, you are inactivating the cooperatives in our country, to control them or to close them down. What I am referring to is not a form of speech, because it does not actually promote any visionary, modernistic or innovative element of this draft law. Unfortunately, the bill under discussion was'saving the term and making the bill under discussion'. It is true that the collective organisations, as I said before, must take steps forward so that they can respond sufficiently to their mission. However, in ten years of their action many positive and negative ones can be blamed. However, no one can question their invaluable offer to the agricultural sector and the country. And this has been recorded and valued historically. And it has rightly been said that in order for there to be a strong production, there must also be a strong cooperative movement. Cooperatives are based on the international principles and values, which we neither ignore nor invoke, as this bill does. Firstly, we do not "we do" the Constitution, Article 12(4) and (5), when it comes to the autonomy and self-government of cooperatives, because it intervenes throughout the functioning of the board of directors, how it will be formed, what the representative general assembly is, when it will meet and impose a party electoral system. Cooperatives are not collectives or associations, but undertakings which have an economic activity belonging to the social economy and cannot be treated under this bill as legal entities governed by public law. And since it is in the social economy, it is indeed unprecedented for Parliament that this bill has not yet been passed by the Committee, that the Economic and Social Committee has not been consulted. Besides, how do you get it? Half of it would've been coming back. Thirdly, one does not put the signature on the administration now of a cooperative if he has only obligations, but no right and permanently jeopardise his personal and family property. In any case, what is provided for in Article 937 of the Civil Code must be clearly applied, otherwise there is a risk that no one would want to enter the administrations of agricultural cooperatives. The principle of equality between men and women cannot be violated with respect to quotas for women in the administrative boards. First things about the cooperative movement, as well as the anonymous corporations, as well as the commercial ones! The draft law introduces provisions which do not meet in international cooperative law and is justified not to be met, since the draft law effectively abolishes cooperative cooperation by creating an obstacle to their development by introducing selective cooperation between sectoral cooperatives. The contradiction with the sixth cooperative principle is obvious. Is it possible for business action to restrict the terms and conditions of business selection and cooperation? Let the authors indicate to us a state whose legislation exists correspondingly. Also, you take out the agricultural partnerships, where they have been compulsory through n. 4015, which you hold and do not recognize as cooperative schemes. Also, what do you want to achieve with the tight restrictions on the manager's definition or how much turnover the cooperative can do or who do you trade with? Maybe their economic failure and misery to have the final blow. What types of economic development are these? Where did you finally get them? Did you probably bring them to us from Korea? And I wonder, not only as a Member but also as a mere good-faithed citizen of the Hellenic Republic: all the things that you enter before us in this draft law can be related to the most democratic and free institution, where the cooperative is? I stressed from the outset the mismatch between the explanatory statement and the provisions of the draft law. The authors invoke the international cooperative principles in the explanatory statement, but unfortunately the institution does not know how to implement them in practice. That is why the proposed draft law is a poor stitching of provisions of previous legislation, which have worked to the detriment of the institution. Furthermore, it does not propose measures to modernise cooperatives. It does not solve the problems of agricultural cooperatives, and no one will allow cooperatives to be refined on the basis of the issues that concern them today. In order not to consider those claims to be vague, I would quote the issues that concern today the European cooperatives and cooperatives in our country, which ignore this draft law. Firstly, it ignores the introduction of agricultural cooperatives in the retail sector, secondly, their self-financing - that is, lending in a variety of ways of cooperative by its members, additional compulsory shares, optional, non-users of the cooperative services - thirdly, the greater opening up of the cooperative to the market and the co-existence with a view to reducing costs and investing. The draft law, with its limitations on the possibility of cooperation between cooperatives through local, national, regional and international structures, hampers the opening-up and co-operation of cooperatives (Article 31). Fourthly, it ignores the increase in the trade of cooperatives with non-members. The draft law, on the other hand, restricts trade between agricultural cooperatives and third parties. As far as the election of the institutions is concerned, you are setting the limit of 1/3 on crusade. Your main target is to check more through electoral processes and to party to the cooperative movement now. The proposed regulation distorts the system of the single ballot which was introduced for the first time by Mr von Wogau. 2810, by limiting the number of preference crosses put by the member when voting, and specifically you refer to one/3, as I have pointed out. I do not need to analyse more that this provision attempts to control the partitioning groups of cooperative farmers. As far as producer groups and interbranch organisations are concerned, two really important actions by farmers are dealt with in this draft law. Very superficially, I will only say that, for interbranch organisations in Spain, the bill on their operation contains more than seventy articles, while this bill, both for producer groups and for interbranch organisations, contains ten lines. It would also be original for you not to have an expansion of the state, a war of the day and an extra cost to our country's winter economy. Two funds are set up, one of which is the Agricultural Cooperative Education Fund, but another has the originality to pay and another to run. In order not to think, in fact, that I am only saying this, I would refer you to the comments of the central legislative committee that we received this morning. For the Fund, the following characteristics are indicated: ‘Where the fund’s principal resource is a percentage of the surpluses of ASAs and other aid originating from them, at the same time it does not receive any State grant, i.e. the fund has private resources exclusively, its subordinated status raises issues of compliance with Articles 5(1) and 17 of the Constitution’. At the same time, you are also recommending the Property, Gaia and Equipment Management Agency, new management boards, that is, a new one. The aim of the DIFF was to create the cooperative property. This article has been changed in accordance with Article 2/3 after the intervention of the Legislative Committee, which says again: "The provision raises issues of compatibility with Article 17 of the Constitution in so far as the generality of the corresponding wording may mean that the Agency intervenes in any way in private property. Therefore, it needs to be recast accordingly’. I would now like to refer to the dissolution, not to the abolition of the tertiary institution, the ideological and guiding instrument of the cooperative movement of the PASPEGI. The institutions are not to blame if you want to take vengeance against faces. Institutions must remain intact. Even in the dictatorship the tertiary ideology of cooperative organisations was respected. We are sure that this arrangement will be written in black letters in the history of the cooperative in our country. I would remind you and draw your attention to the seventeen representatives of the PESF at European level and European forums for the defence of Greek farmers and products. What happens once this instrument does not exist? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. With regard to the compelling of cooperatives, that is to say, the conversion of forced cooperatives and their associations into agricultural cooperatives, it is pointed out that the provisions of that article are controlled by constitutionality because, as you know, the Constitution allows for the establishment by law of forced cooperatives to fulfil the objectives set out in Article 12(5), and this is on the condition that those involved are treated equally. It has also been pointed out by the Scientific Service of Parliament that this provision reflects the generality and ambiguity of its wording. You insist on this provision bringing in a medium-sized position and risking cooperatives, which are jewellery, which are leading to the collapse of the market and at European level. In relation to Articles 25, 26 and 27, I would like to refer here to the workers in cooperative organisations, in particular to workers who, without their responsibility, have taken an intervention from the State with Law 4015, which has led a number of organisations to be wound up, at the moment, have received assimilation and compensation. And they're not many - four thousand, as you say - they're not five hundred workers. And it is not possible for the Greek state not to treat Greek citizens on an equal footing. A month ago with L.4364/2006, when we discussed in this Chamber adapting to the Greek legislation of a European directive, we made workers in insurance companies in liquidation priority over other creditors. I also tabled Amendment No 341 to accept that. And I wonder why you don't accept it when the Greek Parliament accepted it a month ago for the insurance companies in liquidation. And I conclude by saying that the Democratic Reconciliation cannot pass a bill cancelling an institutional, economic, social, developmentist, which is necessary, particularly today, because of the economic crisis, but also because of the economic situation in the country's agricultural sector. Instead of exalting him and making him the best use of it and making him a useful development tool, because yes, admittedly, he can offer much more to the agricultural sector than today, unfortunately this bill becomes the cafeteria that puts the end to our country's cooperative movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u41	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u42	Here you go, Mr. Vlavo. What do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u43	We were given the note...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u44	Any questions in relation to the Legislation to the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u45	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u46	You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u47	And less. So we were given the legislators. I see that in point 25, Mr Minister, you say: 'Article 43(2) is deleted...' and nothing else. In Article 43 yesterday you told us that the question of the length and horsepower of vessels, etc. is being removed. I don't see that. They're coming to another one? Have you made a mistake?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u48	He hasn't been there.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u49	The article's gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u50	The whole article has been retired.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u51	All the article you get back? All 43?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u52	Minister, you have the floor on the question, so that your answer can be recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u53	The specific article you are referring to, you know that it did not obtain the necessary majority at the committee meeting and in fact it was withdrawn from the draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u54	But this is where you bring...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u55	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u56	What refers to point 25, what is it then?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u57	Mr Vlao, I think that clarification has been given, the answer. It was withdrawn, as the Minister said. The special speaker from the Communist Party, Mr Moraite, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. At the time the bill comes into force, the measures in the third memorandum on farmers are being implemented through taxation and insurance. SYRIZA - ANEL Co-government breaks down poor medium-sized farms. It gives her the graceful shot, of course, with the vote of the other urban parties, which all together voted together in the third memorandum last summer. We call on the poor, medium-sized farms, with their grand races of forty days on the blocks, to rise up, to take part in the forty-eight-hour strike and together with the working people's movement to prevent, to put brakes on their own policy, in the slaughterhouse laws. We also welcome the mobilisations of the Samos farmers. We also call on the poor farm to isolate the fascist, criminal Golden Dawn, which is allegedly caring for local production, while hiding that the country's productive potential is being destroyed because of the capitalist organisation of production, the economic crisis, the European Union and Greece's unequal position in it. He's not on the side of the small- and medium-sized farmer. It seeks to improve the position of Greek capital in the European Union, which it basically accepts, as is the CFP. Diplomatically it speaks of the struggles of the people, while it defames, it attacks the trade union movement, which is fighting against the exploiters, because it is the Golden Dawn who is setting up slave trade offices for the big-workers that brings amendments to shipowners. With the bill that we are discussing today, you are going to conclude what the previous governments have left in the middle of the year, namely the satisfaction of the demand from the big farmers and businesses active in the field of production, standardisation and sale of agricultural products, with a clear aim of concentrating land, production and subsidies on a few hands of large-scale capitalist businesses. Your bill breaks down provisions of Law 2010/2000 and some of Law 4015/2011. You use the same arguments, that depreciation will be addressed, that resolution and adaptation will be made to healthy entrepreneurship. You are actually trying to modernise in the context of capitalist restructuring, in the direction of the implementation of the CAP, agricultural policy, cooperatives, which have been bankrupt and, most importantly, have been bankrupt into farmers' consciences. They've exhausted their role, so the system today doesn't need them anymore. That is why the bill places the main burden on producer groups, on agricultural partnerships, in order to better serve the interests of farmers. They will function purely on private economic criteria. The target will be the profit for the big farmers, for the big shareholders. Small and medium-sized farmers, stockfarmers, fishermen will be led to the shelling. Thus, the new cooperatives will become a feud for big farmers, businessmen. After all, that is the aim of the CAP 2015-2020. So, what are you doing? We have further armour of the bourgeois state in front of the new data that is being formed. Of course, as I said, you are preparing the ground and the bill is a tool for the passage of the anti-grass storm that comes through the insurance and tax system, through the implementation of the CFP itself, which cuts subsidies over five years, subsidies that are extensive with the new CFP, i.e. they will gather to the big farmers with large lots and the small ones will be cut off. It will change to the worst the already negative correlation that exists today, that is, 20% of farmers get 80% of subsidies. The subsidies will be collected in even less hands. This direction also appears through the articles of the bill. Keep the interbranch organisations per product or group of products. You also keep in Article 36 the sales contracts for agricultural products with the duration of the agreement in one year. The aim is to ensure the profits of industrialists at the expense of poor medium-sized farms. The dealers will step on the needs of the producers. They will seize their crops at a time when they will be in need of greater need and will take it from time to time, i.e. farmers will not be able to claim better prices throughout the year. Of course, we have cases where merchants do not comply with those agreements which, anyway, have low prices. We have cases throughout the country at milk prices to cow farmers and sheep farmers, who are paid with a thousand advances at a lower price than the original agreements. In short, what are you doing in this particular article? You have the wolf guarding the sheep. In Article 35, like the previous ones, you maintain agri-food partnerships. What are you doing? The infamous baskets of the region continue, which do not only give solutions, but are forgotten by mockery, carried by the previous ones from a region to a region with supposedly gifts for poor medium-sized farmers, but the treasure has proved to be carbon. Keep trying to fool. You are confusing and delusional that local products can allegedly solve the problem within the barbarity of this system, where there is the immunity of the big traders, the directions of the European Union and the World Trade Organisation, which are spreading poverty, the extinction. It's a recipe tested. It has been used in the past by PASOK and New Democracy with textiles, with the rearing of frogs, with lavenders, oreganos, with spoon sweets. All this proved to be a great lie. Neither these nor farm tourism has given solutions. The result is a further winding-up. The villages have become old villages. The draft law enables legal persons to participate in agricultural enterprises in production, i.e. S.A., who can become members of the cooperative - as to date - and the possibility of partnerships between agricultural cooperatives with business groups. Re-establish the membership of an investor, without, of course, the right to vote and to vote and stand for election. Reintroduce formal equality - a vote, one vote - of the members who existed and were abolished today, and had three votes. Of course, this does not change the content, because the upper hand will have it those who have greater economic power within the cooperative. You are introducing some new innovative control procedures. For example, the Supervisory Board, the obligation of the members of the cooperative management bodies with an annual turnover of more than EUR 2 million to submit an asset statement. Remove the PASPENS. Don't come back here. The position of the JRC is well known for these compromised leaderships and the role they have played all this time. Of course, we are coming back for the workers in PASPEGES and the other workers who, by the previous law, were on the streets. That is why we have tabled an amendment to which we shall refer more about tomorrow. Keep all forms that turn the cooperatives into anonymous companies, corporate partnerships, inter-professional partnerships, while you are still institutionalising DISCOUNT. What are you doing? You are creating a rural RIAD, which seeks to manage by concession, rental, co-existence, state and rural land and real estate - probably what remains of the clearing of cooperatives and of their associations, what the Agricultural Bank has not been able to get. In the explanatory memorandum to the bill, the orientation is clear, as the objective of business efficiency is again declared. At the same time as invoking the well-known ideas of a social economy, a cooperative idea, there is an attempt to ward off the fact that the overall rural enterprises described in the draft law will objectively move within the framework imposed by capitalist profitability, monopolistic competition. It is for this reason that the legislatures of such companies are ultimately transforming them into capitalist enterprises. The pretext that the bill we are discussing will solve the problems created by previous laws in 2000 and 2011 is a mockery, because it is moving in the same anti-agricultural direction as the European Union and the common agricultural policy. The effort you make and your anxiety seems clear. It's for you to take out the CAP's agricultural policy and pass in smoothly. That is why you are sowing confusions and delusional ones. Because you, too, have a gospel to your agricultural policy CFP. Any changes that you have made, Minister, on the previous laws, Law 2010/2000 and Law 4015/2011, and those which you have now made in your original plan, do not change the reactionary character at all, do not affect the core of anti-agricultural policy. This is confirmed by the life itself, which we have every day such an eclipse, which will continue with your own law in rural households. So, what's gonna happen? Those who so far have managed to survive will not withstand the new storm that comes with the bill, the new CAP and all the measures that the third memorandum brings. Poor medium-sized farmers, farmers and fishermen must draw conclusions from what they experience every day. They must not be delusional about the future that the European Union, the governments of capital in our country are looking after. In the face of this explosive situation they must create together with the working class, the wide folk layers, the youth front - a rift to overthrow this barbaric policy. He needs a common front, because the problems are in common, the opponent is in common. They must give perspective to their struggle, to claim solutions to their acute problems, to claim the development of the agricultural and livestock sectors for their benefit, so that they can live with dignity, in their villages, in their lands, to put forward the demands of the consistent agricultural movement, which they are responding to today, which give a breath. But in order to give a definitive solution to the sufferings of poor farmers, it must conflict with this policy and overthrow it. Once again through the latest developments on the future of the common agricultural policy, the JRC's position on the character of the European Union, on the anti-grassroots consequences of accession, and in particular on the common agricultural policy's policy, is confirmed. Indicate the timeliness of the JRC's position for release from the European Union. With labour power to become social property, industries, energy, telecommunications, public transport, land, infrastructure to get into production, central planning with an incentive to the nutritional needs of our people and to generally satisfy modern needs. Only in such a society can the farmer have a future, whether by working on large mechanised state agricultural production directly linked to industry, or by voluntary integration into the productive cooperative that will be supported by state trade. Only this society can respond to the violent catastrophe, to the unemployment the capitalist way of production. The small and medium-sized farmer, however much he works, cannot reach the reduced cost of producing the large ones. Solution for its survival is to gain the advantages of great production. This will be done by the socialisation of the great capitalist majestic property and the voluntary cooperativeisation of the small heirs. Consolidating land, farming activities means low production costs with state scientific and technical support for the production of good, quality and cheap products for the people's family. The farmer will be a link in this socialised form of production that will be working on a particular piece, which can live with hours of rest, with public and free quality health care, with the education of his children in children's facilities, with special care for the elderly, with holidays every year, with sports and cultural centres for the countryside, which is now devastated. Central planning, state regional specialisation based on social property and labour control will solve the problem of unemployment. It will give farmers' children the opportunity to choose another area of work. It will be completely different from capitalism to labour costs, materials, machinery, accumulation needs for future and upgraded productive growth, for social services, without considered them to be inconsistent, as is the case today. In this different way of producing, calculating costs and new stocks of products, our understanding of unilateral debt write-offs, unleashing from the European Union and any imperialist union is based on a drastic reduction in imported products, while increasing domestic produce, but also on mutual trade with all the peoples of the world. After all, it is time for everyone to think about and draw conclusions from the capitalist method of development from more than thirty-five years of our country's stay in the European Union. We call on the poor, medium-sized farm on such a road to focus its struggle and its struggle.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr. Moraite. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fifty-three students and apprentices and six professors from the Gymnasium of Polykastro Kilkis. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Catherine Markou, a special buyer from Potami, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u60	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the benefits of healthy agricultural cooperatives are multiple and concern not only their members, but also the whole economy. This demonstrates the many successful international examples, which could also be an inspiration and a source of good practice for our country. In New Zealand, the "Fonterra" cooperative brings together almost 11 thousand dairy producers in the country, with a turnover of 10% of the total GDP. In Messellen, Belgium operates one of the world's largest auctions of fruit and vegetables, with over two hundred employees and a turnover of 230 million euros from a cooperative producer organisation with over two and a half thousand members. And so in the Netherlands, in the "Blue Market", while the institution is highly developed and effective in Denmark, France, Israel, and even in the United States, the country of private initiative, capitalism. Unfortunately, despite the long historical tradition, since the Middle War, in the area of co-operation and in the Community tradition and in the spirit of Karabda, only individual successful cases have to be presented. I have been thinking of the Association of Thessala and S.S.P. Velvetou in Kosani from the past. These healthy and effective cooperatives, which, in the current institutional context, have not been involved in the trap of partyism and interests, but have managed to modernise, organise and overcome any strangles, should also have them as a bright example when drafting the bill, and let it be a minority. They should be the guide to a visionary approach and philosophy, which would promote the development and support of the cooperative movement, the reduction of bureaucracy, the provision of incentives and facilities, the cultivation of innovation and the verticalisation of production. Instead, we have a bill in front of us, which is an exercise in the procedures with exhaustive, bureaucratic, and also exceptions and loopholes, with interventions within cooperatives and without substantial solutions to the real problems. Unfortunately, the overall picture of the cooperative movement remains dramatic. We have most cooperatives in Europe, with absolute numbers, but with the smallest turnover and limited added value. The vast majority of cooperatives are inactive. Only 15% are active and many are just seals, for no reason of existence, apart from serving some local and party micro-interests. Of the few active cooperatives, only fifteen to twenty are economically sound. Most of them sink at the expense of debts, to the banks and to the state, as a result of maladministration. At the same time, the rural world is faced with the challenges and difficulties of the new globalised market and for agricultural products, together with the painful consequences of the economic crisis and the Memorandumary obligations. In this context we see the depreciation of the concept of partnership in the eyes not only of the rural world, but also of the whole of society, as an outbreak of corruption and mismanagement, since, over time, cooperatives were used as a party group, mechanisms for re-engaging political managers and managers - Community subsidies mediators. Collaboration, association is not an end in itself. It is the means to achieve certain benefits that each individual producer cannot pursue on its own. Just to say, the cooperative only makes sense if it is useful to its members. It requires faith and trust between members. That's the only way it can work. Faith it's better with the cooperative than it is from outside. We're not practicing the applied socialism here. The cooperative is a private company where collectively and individual benefits are identified. The main objectives are: to reduce the cost of production - the main factor of reduced competitiveness of Greek products - and to strengthen the negotiating power towards the oligopoly of industry, to increase the added value of products, through standardisation or processing, and ultimately to increase the profit for producers. In addition, cooperatives must be more than the sum of their members. It must be an engine to seek new opportunities, to better connect with the market and consumers, to innovation, to training and to expand cooperative activity. The question is whether this bill has something to add to the modernisation of the institution, if it can actually lead to the resolution of the cooperative landscape, for the benefit of farmers and society. Many of the bill is a string with minor amendments to previous laws, Law 2810/2000 and Law 4015/2011. From the innovations you had announced in the consultation, a few things have left. So the scope of the intervention remains small and limited. And what you are trying to do is actually to force the creation of medium and large cooperatives, of course forgetting the basic principle of cooperation, that participation is voluntary. The number of members is a characteristic example of this logic. You started out with ten members, you went up to thirty, and eventually ball sat to twenty, so without any justification and logic, when most European countries ask for 10 members. Yes, fragmentation is a problem. It reduces the effectiveness of the cooperative, but you cannot even impose it. The association is freedom. In any case, the international and Greek experiences show that the number of members is not a guarantee of efficiency. You have understood that market incentives and the ability of each cooperative to serve effectively and qualitatively the objectives of its members will tell how many members will eventually be assembled. It is right that there should be a horizontally low forecast, without exceptions, which facilitates the initial creation of the cooperative in any case and in every area, as far or distant as it is. Then, in order to combat corruption and economic problems, three levels of control are introduced: internal control by the Supervisory Board, financial and management control by external auditors, supervision by the Department of Economic Control and Inspection of your Ministry. In other words, you have passed from full immunity to the answerable grades, which remind party organization. And here, of course, we see that organisations with up to thirty members are excluded from all control procedures, in other words, the creation of larger organisations. You understand the contradiction with the preceding ones. Obviously there must be self-control but also supervision by the state, and this must concern all cooperatives. It is good that at least you have withdrawn the provision that it was talking about publishing balance sheets in the newspapers, which is not even the case in commercial enterprises. Another factor in the profitability of the cooperatives is the commitment of its members to deliver its production to the cooperative for marketing. That, as in the explanatory statement, is self-evident. However, with what you consider self-evident, enter an exception again. But if the cooperative works, won't each member deliver 100% of its production anyway, if that's an interest in him? You also introduce a series of other interventions within cooperatives, ignoring the principle of autonomy and democratic operation entirely: terms of reference, the number of crosses of preference, the single voter, the compulsory appointment of a Director-General and, in particular, by a specific procedure, the control of the business plan of the cooperative over three years and many other arrangements constitute excesses of constitutionally permissible state supervision of cooperatives. That is what the report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament says. That is what the Committee's report says, which should of course have been requested by the Ministry. That is what the bodies in the committee have told us. This discomfortful and heavy bureaucratic framework is accompanied by poor motives and facilities. You have indeed removed the tax incentives, saying that they will be discussed in the context of tax reform, without, of course, giving details. Finally, this bill also repeats the well-known pattern of the creation of various organisations and legal persons, without obvious usefulness, but with numerous administrative councils. We have already counted seven unpaid assignments to the Real Equilibrium and Equipment Management Agency with demanding the tremendously qualified qualifications, i.e. an IOI degree, business experience and administrative skills, even though your Ministry has a Real Estate Management Directorate. I assume you will follow the same method that you are proposing to cooperatives, to hire a director, who I imagine will be an open notice with publication in two newspapers. And let the administrative boards be paid out of the state budget, of course! You also set up a Cooperative Education Fund to do seminars after two years, with compulsory funding from the cooperative surpluses. Why? Are there no university and research institutes and schools, such as the neglected Aberofios in Larissa or the Mediterranean Agricultural Institute of Chania and the ELGO - "Dimitra" which can provide such programmes and, indeed, a high level? Or are the colleges you want to introduce in Article 44? What is needed and how much does this symbolic fund cost, as you described it? We will have the opportunity in the next discussions to look more closely at the other elements of the law that need clarification and the many unreasonable provisions and amendments that you have tabled. Before I close, I'll say two words about PASPEGES that you're removing in secret. Again, to punish the faces, you're hurting the institution. There is neither a transitional provision nor a provision on the clearance of the MAGP. What about her property, the workers, and the file, the know-how, the experience she has accumulated over the years? Also - and this is important - there is no provision for debts or any responsibility for administrations. What will happen after the day after the law is published and where will the law be published? Will we find ourselves in full resentment with what is happening in the other European countries? Will Greece remain without representation, without a voice in a series of European institutions, committees and working groups, such as COPA - COGECA or the European Economic and Social Committee? What about the various advisory committees? If you do not intend to cut off the Greek agricultural world from the rest of Europe and from the centres for creating a European agricultural policy, you are due to some clarification. Overall, instead of a reform of the landscape of agricultural cooperatives, we have a streak of previous regulations, with few and problematic innovations and many shortcomings, imperfections and contradictions. We have a bill that ignores the economic function of cooperatives, the need to develop automatic business activities, their place and potential on the market and that gives no solution to the real problems, rather than trying to impose tight supervision, without substance and without benefits. Instead of going forward, we're going back. We are voting against the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u61	Thank you, Mrs Marcus. Mr Papachristopoulos has the floor, a special speaker from the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u62	Mr President, I would like to thank you for having had a little accident and a little mobility problem. I'd like to speak from the seat.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u63	You're passing through. Of course, talk from there so you don't suffer this suffering. We're listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u64	Thank you. Because I believe that topicality cannot leave us unarmed before I come to my point, I would like to remind you of the four facts: Firstly, in today's statement, Mr. Juncker says that Greece does not need exceptional measures and plays dangerous games for anyone referring to Grexit games. Today's hot news: Klaus Regling's ESS is looking, according to "REUTERS", for a Greek debt relief solution. Thirdly, I would like to refer to the EULER HERMES credit reinsurance group, which sees growth in the second half of 2016 and increases the risk of the Greek economy to C3, by C4. Finally, let me remind you that Mario Draghi won the success of the negotiation last week, putting the country - and we all know it - in his quantitative relaxation, which means that if we handle this move properly, it is 18.5 billion. Because some had underestimated it. I'm coming to my point. The co-ordinations - because I have heard again, again, dangerous, destructive - are catalysts. Behind the pompous title 'Agricultural Bank', I would like to remind you: What did this bank do for the farmer, for the fisherman, for the farmer and for giving loans without guarantees? I would remind you of the thousands of three hundred borrowers who took five billion without bail. I can still remind you of one court, Mr. Musa, who was the right hand of the Miliacus. And I still remind you of the scandalous way this bank was sold at such a price as it doesn't - because it costs more - the Edward Lo building. I would also like to remind you - because I have heard too many people reminiscent of - the PASPEGES, SYDASE, GESSE, who are under control for those who do not know it. There was a provocative cover from the previous governments to control all three of these organisations, some of which are reminiscent. Don't do it because they're exposed. I also want to remind ELGA of the cooperatives. In our minds are the night deals, which some ten acres made a hundred acres, the ten tons of oil made them a hundred, the cooperative's head took the lion's share and gave crumbs to illegal farmers. Let's not chew our words. This is how cooperatives in the country worked for many decades. There is frustration and abhorrentness to the last Greek citizen who lives in the villages. I think most of us here through villages are and we know exactly what happened. I did not say that we should not criticise or say that all the cooperatives' problems were solved by this bill. I just want to remind you, tirelessly, that a complex of islands, the Faroe Islands - once it was a Danish colony, now it is not, it is a normal state - it covered almost 30% - take care of the revenues only from a product, tone, because the inhabitants of this island were working cooperatives properly, with absolute transparency. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] I would also like, ladies and gentlemen - and I will not eat you much time - to remind you that, apart from tourism, which is really heavy industry in the country, apart from transport, the message that has recently been sent to the port of Piraeus - and in which I welcomely wish to say that the previous governments have participated, I have no hesitation to mention something positive that our opponents have done - is that transport and transit from this port is not only China, it is India, it is Iran and perhaps other countries have added. Apart from energy, which is also on the periphery of the country's geographical position, Greece's position is privileged for too many pipelines, the primary sector of farmers, fishermen, farmers - not just farmers - is a revolutionary, truly, part and the rural economy, with appropriate management, could really contribute - because we are the fillet of the planet, we are the paradise of the planet - to take off the country. What do I think of this bill? I think it is a very positive first step. I would also like to remind you - because we recently felt the blockades from farmers on our side - that at that time we were a little noble, a little conscientious. Today I think we can say things by their name. I love farmers, and I think they really should have a better chance. It is the first time through this bill and almost all of its articles, which give farmers the opportunity to get into the country's economy and no one needs and above all the Greek countryside - which has almost been devastated - to relive. Already a large part of farmers see this bill positively, because I happen to speak. I'm still going to cafeterias, I'm walking where I need to, because I'm from village, and I'm from, like most of you, and I'm telling you, this bill works positively. And I want - something that I do not do often - to say that this Minister, the Apostle, has sat down very zealously and has made this bill. I could say details of too many articles. I don't want to do it because I don't want to get tired. We as Independent Greeks have made our remarks. It was a good intention of the Minister, who even accepted a point of order and withdrew an article without being so important. I would like to say, however, that it is a step forward and it is a tangible proof that this government is not laundering. It could well be that the Apostle, now that the strikes are over, back up. He didn't come back. I'll see you in a later bill. I would also like to say that the insurance and tax bill favours farmers. It's fair. He doesn't pet them. It's not Hatzigakis style, so we gave the five hundred voters. And he didn't - and he's honored - the Apostle. The register of farmers is almost door-to-door. I would like to remind you that from the six and a half thousand rural cooperatives - which some presidents were getting rich in - they are, in fact, ten to fifteen. And in the thousand twenty-four cooperatives working, they work negatively. Most of them will be seals. These seals were going to GSEE, SYDASE, GESSAE, government funding and go by saying. It was a rotten regime that had to change. We Independent Greeks are saying that we are voting in favour of this bill in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr. Papachristopoulos. Because I know the intervention you have made on your knee - and I wish you pass away - that you do not sit at the stand you spoke about, because I think it is at the expense of your leg. Until treatment you can speak seated from the seat. Mr. Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. The cooperatives have so far not acted in accordance with the rules of the free market. And this is seen by this bill. That is why we believe that we are not going to see light in this direction. But let's start with the facts. To bring to the House to vote on this bill, you have noticed the existence of a problem. The problem is clear - we agree on this - and you too note it, and that is encouraging. In general, we have from six and a half thousand registered cooperatives to operate only a thousand forty-two. The rest, about five and a half thousand, have in fact been nonexistent, as they have stopped working for some time. Their overcompensation is the huge one. Of the thousands forty-two-five or twenty-three, there are healthy economic data, while the others are either over-paid or at a loss of commercial activity. I am presenting myself to the Minutes, and it is a pro-government source, as you say, pro-government site is the left.gr. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Why, ladies and gentlemen, have we reached this point? The Government argues that there is a regulatory gap, which requires drastic state intervention. Did you, however, think of this mess that we are talking about here is due to excessive state intervention policy on cooperatives? In Denmark, for example, with one of the world's most developed cooperative movements, there is no special rural cooperative law governing the creation and operation of cooperatives. They are legally covered. In Denmark, however, 90% of milk and almost 100% of meat are moved by cooperatives. The cooperatives, in fact, served 36.4% of consumers in retail trade. I submit to the Minutes a relevant source. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Similar rates are observed in the Scandinavian countries as well. All over the civilised world, cooperatives are important productive units, which are normally integrated into the market, such as all branches, and that is quite simply because there is a high cooperative culture, they are not an extension of the party state nor are they considered to be a stepping-stone of the central political scene. And most importantly? They are not poles of party corruption, interlocutory and ruptured. So once the cooperative activity can be smoothly integrated into the market, like all other activities, where is the special regulation on agricultural cooperatives finally aimed at? Can you imagine that you are satisfying some party friends to calm down, in view of the insurance and tax changes you intend to bring us in the next few days? Clearly, the question is rhetorical, as their conclusions have already been reached by those who study logically and with clarity your legislation. It is incomprehensible to say that the success of this is a matter of additional and complex state regulations. We do not disagree with the concept of State intervention, anyone else, of course, must intervene. But for regulatory purposes, to exalt and prevent pathogens and not to create new labyrinths of disease. The existing legal framework has already been subjected to thirty-five amendments, which makes the operation of cooperatives defective and could be improved by only a few legislative interventions, not by abolishing the existing law and introducing new law. I mean, you're getting the opposite of what you want to achieve. It is worth noting that other typical market companies operate without commitments and indeed with a stable legal framework and I refer to Law 2190/1920 ‘About Anonymous Companies’. And you, supposed to be left-wing, seek to support cooperatives in a competitive disadvantage regime. The state has always seen cooperatives as party annexes. It has never dealt with them in technocratically, as organisations to market companies. On the contrary, the cooperatives were treated as an extension of the state and its customer pursuits. Do you think, then, that the problem is, in fact, incomplete regulatory intervention? This shows, as a minimum, ignorance not only of the market but also of the specific nature of agricultural production. And, apart from ignorance, it also shows a hint of perpetuation of the client state, as I have already mentioned. Do you remember that for many years the compulsory deposit of the cooperatives' money was in the Agricultural Bank, and even selflessly? Or did you forget that the cooperatives have been pushing - and I am referring to the last ten or twenty years - after a state mandate at a concentration of unsavoury products, without even being paid for by them? Do you know what the consequences were? Farmers in recent years have not felt cooperatives as their own organizations, have not felt welcome to their supposed homes. To be honest, it is also to some farmers. It is the fault of those who have disregarded their duties, the work and the progress of their sector and have tried to falsify themselves in society as parties - businessmen of foreign labour. The client system usually reached the boards of cooperatives, creating unprecedented interests. Let us look more specifically at some articles. Article 4 requires that a statute be drawn up and signed by at least 20 persons. This shows enormous indifference for some farmers, especially young people at age, who will not be able to reach this figure. At the same time, they lead small communities to local isolation. In all countries of the European Union, the minimum number of recommendations is below 10. You in this article only lower this limit to ten if the activity concerns organic products. This has no reasonable basis, apart from the personal services of various parties, which are part of your clientele state. Let's look at Article 8. Here it is pointed out that the member is obliged to deliver - without having clear criteria - at least 80% of his annual output in the cooperative. This seems to us to be an excessive commitment against cooperatives. The minimum percentage of production must be regulated by the cooperative statute and by its general assembly. What does the state have to define a centrally such thing? Do you nostalgic the concentration we've abandoned and abandoned him, and history has been abandoned for decades? That kind of growth you're dreaming of? With self-government in the economy and in the rural economy, which is the definition of the productive sector? We continue with Article 17. Within all the authoritarian framework that you are shaping, you are putting a quota for women. You say that the percentage of women candidates on the management and supervisory board should not be less than the percentage of women members of the cooperative. Ladies and gentlemen, on the market and science there is no gender-based separation. We're interested in man's ability and not his gender. Production and administrative capacities do not separate sex. Any such attempt to control the gender-based quota is totally unreasonable and irrational. So let free those who want and those who accept the cooperative members to claim his administration and judge their success with the result. In conclusion, I would like to mention that we are proposing a specific amendment as a restoration of injustice, on property offences in the period 1995-2012. In view of the lack of a transitional provision, a fairly specific scheme was still in force at the present time, with severe restrictions and risks of nullity. And this was mentioned for the purchases of the earth over the two hundred and fifty acres. This error meant limiting the right of ownership and creating particular problems for the fundamental principle of equality. Although this amendment was tabled late, I would ask the Government and the Minister responsible to accept it, with the sole aim of restoring parity. The Association of Greek Animals in the Memorandum submitted to the Committee on Production and Trade of the Parliament states: "As regards the bill on cooperatives, there was no substantial, organised dialogue with cooperative organisations and their bodies, which would lead to a simple, functional, respectful and legal framework." In practice, we are legislating for cooperatives without the cooperatives. In conclusion, as I have already noted throughout my references, these legislations do not go forward with the country. You consider yourself capable of adjusting up to the air we breathe. The reality is completely different and you have not proved so far that you are in a position to govern this country. In fact, we will vote against this bill at first, without that meaning we will not support the provisions that really aim to strengthen the agricultural sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u67	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, listen to what the situation is like, to make an agreement, so as to speak as many colleagues as possible. You have registered sixty a Member of Parliament. We got off with the special speakers. The Minister has agreed that the first four Members of Parliament should speak and then give him the floor. I now address the parliamentary representatives and make this proposal: Everyone can speak tomorrow morning in order to speak tonight with the time that we will have until 10 a.m., not the ten, which was the proposal initially, but to go to at least 20 colleagues. At the same time, I propose that Members accept a slight reduction in their time from seven minutes to five minutes, so that everyone else can speak tomorrow. At the same time, I would like to ask the Minister, if possible, although he was committed to tomorrow morning, even late in the evening, before we close, if he is ready to tell us some of the parliamentary amendments he may accept, so that you can have a better picture tomorrow, before you speak. If it's not, he'll call it tomorrow, starting the meeting. They have also come to support the ministerial amendments, Mr Alexiadis will always come and Mr Paulakis or is here, I do not know. Mr. Pappas has told me he'll be here tomorrow. Immediately after the Minister, I will give the floor to Mr Alexiadis, who is in the Chamber for five minutes, to support his amendments, and then to Mr Polakis, who has arrived for another five minutes, to support his own amendment. Do you agree with this proposal? In practical terms, I think we'll run out tomorrow from 12.00 p.m. to 17.00 p.m. Whole list of colleagues. I mean, you'll all speak with this proposal. Do we agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u68	And today, what time?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u69	At least until ten o'clock. I want to get to the 20th speaker. Although the proposal and the agreement were for ten colleagues, they would speak 20 colleagues tonight to ensure that the rest of them would speak tomorrow. We agree in principle and, if something comes up on the way, we change it. We didn't sign a contract. So the first speaker, Ms. Harula Kafantaris, should come from SYRIZA. Because it's five minutes, anyone who wants to talk from their place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I really think we are living a theater of absurdity in the Greek Parliament today. We are listening to the rapporteurs of the New Democracy and of the PASOK talking about state intervention. We hear them talk about partyism, about attempting to partyize on the part of the government and the Minister with this draft law. Who's talking about partying? Those who brought the cooperative movement and the cooperatives today into the state in which they are in and are we really coming to legislate again, to restore the healthy functioning of the cooperative movement? Mr Vlachos spoke and said about the Minister, in other words, to the government, 'you do not know from a private initiative, you want state intervention'. What private initiative? What situation has brought us here to bear on agricultural cooperatives around 3.6 billion, 1.5 billion on the poor Agricultural Bank, on the clearer? You're recovering 600 million? Debts in VAT, funds, about 1 billion and, of course, another 600 million? Ladies and gentlemen, our country really must at some point have a stable agricultural policy with a clear orientation in the Community framework that we are living in and, of course, in the specific budgetary circumstances that we are experiencing. In this context, therefore, this draft law on cooperatives is also in progress. Our country's productive reconstruction is mainly based on the agricultural sector. A subset of agricultural policy, necessary for its success, is the tool of agricultural cooperatives. Especially in the present circumstances of the crisis, the need for collective responsibility and the strengthening of healthy cooperative logic is not without them. But what cooperatives and what kind of cooperatives? We cannot say that from the six and a half thousand cooperatives only twenty are economically viable or, anyway, they have positive economic effects, while over a thousand are registered. Agricultural cooperatives are voluntary farmers' organisations and are intended to limit the exploitation of their members from large capital, improve their economic situation, reduce production costs. Agricultural cooperatives, as voluntary associations, presuppose the self-existence of farmers and their full, standard, at least self-determination, that is to say the full formal freedom to decide for themselves to participate in various collective economic organizations and activities. Small professionals, as farmers call themselves, because of the survival needs, have been led to the grouping in order to gain a negotiating power, which is the main cause of the cooperatives. Since the amphibians and symphonies of antiquity the renowned - worldwide at the time - a co-operative of "By the Vineyards" was created in 1778 in the Vineyards, which was dispersed in 1811 due to major market changes. After the break-up of this cooperative, there can be no real mention of a worthwhile cooperative movement until the Agricultural Cooperation of Almyros was established, the “Participating Agricultural Association of Almyros”. They followed a series of laws. The first is Law 602/1915, which was in force until 1979. Law 602/1915 followed by Law 2810/2000, Law 4015/2011. At the same time, large-scale mergers of agricultural cooperatives began. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But, to date, the policies they brought and the cooperatives here that brought them, the policies of the New Democracy and PASOK played permanent games on the farmers' backs and with improvisations, fragmentary measures, wanted to be pleasant and useful. They were trying at the lowest possible cost, and laws were passed to meet the demands of the European Union and in the Community's actions, but without real implementation. On the other hand, a number of ministers from these governments were playing games - and personally - and all of this brought us here. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would also like to say that there has always been a lack of a stable and consensual system of values and cooperative education and culture...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u71	And close with that, Mrs. Kafantari.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u72	You will allow me, Mr President, to have a minute more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u73	I've already given it. I let it go and it moves on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u74	... which promote collectiveism, aiming at creative socio-economic entrepreneurship through the form of the cooperative. I shall refer to Article 39 on the Cooperative Education Fund. It is important here, like the legislative improvements brought by the Minister, because this government is listening and listening to the public consultation that has taken place. And, apart from the issues he raises - the fact that the fund should finance training programmes, environmental issues, plant protection, etc. - I would like to mention that, in the light of the current circumstances, it is very important for farmers to be informed of the transatlantic agreements, TTIP and CETA, to know what that means and what the abolition of any protective regulations and barriers is there for food safety. I would also like to refer specifically to Article 2, which has something to do with...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u75	Finish it, Mrs. Kafantari.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u76	Mr President, I shall conclude. We were prepared for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u77	Yes, Mrs. Kafantari, but please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u78	Article 2, which concerns women's cooperatives, which is a very important issue, gives an indirect effect in favour of women, helps to strengthen them and aims through genuine incentives to participate in a professional process, ensuring equal opportunities, and there are examples at European level of women's rural and urban cooperatives, which exist throughout Europe.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u79	Please complete, Mrs. Kafantari.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u80	In conclusion, the last thing I would like to mention, Mr Minister, is that we have tabled an amendment on fishing vessels, on the lagoon. You have said that a fishing bill will come immediately. We would like to come immediately - I mean it - because the Fisheries Code has been in force for more than thirty-five years and needs to be modernised. Thank you, Mr President, and apologise for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u81	Please, but listen to something, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u82	I was the first, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u83	Yes, but if the first ten of them let them speak for seven and a half minutes, they'll be at the expense of the other colleagues. I don't have a problem. I'm not leaving here, I'm going until 22:00, not until 21:30. But either we did this to help you all, or, if the deal is going to be broken, then I will leave the seven minutes and I will not dig up here, because the first ones do not always think about the next ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u84	The first speakers, Mr President, have eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u85	Mr. Kegeroglu, eight never had one. Don't give up on that. Here, Mr. Andriane, you have the floor. You'll have a relative tolerance, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is certainly necessary to reorganise the cooperative movement. I believe that we all recognize in this Chamber that it is devalued, with the most cooperatives being seals and indebted ones. But there are also cooperatives and cooperatives, where excellent work is done and operating as a model. I think that, like all of us in this Chamber - or even the vast majority - we agree on the causes of this disgrace. We have also heard in the committee representatives from bodies - with whom we do not belong in the same political area and some belong to your area - to codify these causes properly. It is the state cycling that caused producers not to view cooperatives as something of their own, the constant changes in legislation, the party interventions, which have in many cases transformed a useful institutional tool for primary production into a means of serving micro-party purposes. This problem therefore needs to be tackled and the objective cannot be left to the creative forces of primary production through the removal of bureaucratic obstacles. I would like to bring for example, Mr Minister, OPEKEPE. In Argolida Nafplio, where we have this Service, this important structure for the service of farmers, is in place because of its subsistence, with two permanent members, who really exaggerate themselves and make superhuman efforts, which help two contractors through the OAED. But they cannot respond to the heavy tasks of either the checks or the internal work they have to do. That is why you need to see these structures, these bureaucratic processes and serve such services with the staff required to serve farmers and citizens. The same is true, of course, with ELGA. So there must be a way of dealing with the work of the farmer and the farmer through ensuring a strong and modern institutional framework. The current government begins with a bad position, because, despite its election promises, the rural world sees that, instead of dealing with the problems, these are increasing and growing. For years, farmers have been giving a daily survival battle against foreign and often unfair competition, the high cost of production which is even more burdened by increasing VAT on agricultural supplies and fertilisers to 23% - and 24% - the low prices of the producer, increases in insurance contributions, increased wine tax, delays in payment of aid and compensation. I hope, Minister, that the second instalment of the basic payment will be paid by the end of the month, as you said, because farmers will not be able to make Easter. They also have to deal with the institutional insecurity and the inability to dispose of their products. In Argolida producers estimate that thirty thousand tons of oranges are still left in trees and the prospects for absorption are not good. All of this is now coming to add new burdens from the current government, the tax, the insurance, with contributions of 20%, an insurance policy which, apart from farmers, also affects professionals and scientists, since, for example, the issue of contributions to young professionals, young scientists, you consider it a debt that the insured must pay back in the future, so that they can retire. There are also other individual negative developments, such as those concerning milk and yoghurt, which I believe, if these developments occur, there will be another blow for Greek farmers and for producers of this Greek product. In this context, therefore, there is a bill that does not respond to the needs and problems of farmers, farmers and fishermen and does not come to strengthen the development prospects of the primary sector, as does not help the development prospects and the delays observed in the development projects that have been auctioned, such as this work of the Palais in Argolia, which is necessary for farmers to water their farms and their production. I said earlier that examples of successful operation of cooperatives exist. We have heard the Committee of the Regions at a recent meeting of such cases. We could also draw good practices from successful models that exist in other countries, such as Belgium, Denmark, the Netherlands. So, almost throughout Europe, cooperatives play a very positive role, both for primary production and for the national economy and for local communities. This does not mean, of course, that we should or could copy self-determination forecasts and institutional arrangements that apply elsewhere, in foreign institutional environments, with different history and features, but we could certainly draw ideas, proposals and practices. Instead, we have a bill without a developmental targeting and philosophy, without ultimately changing the dynamics it needs to change for the better a situation that we all recognise needs to change. We have a bill that moves in the same direction as the problem at the outset, the direction of state suffocation, excessive interventionism in internal operation, hostility towards private initiative and creativity. It is a bill, and this must be stressed, which actually transforms cooperatives from private-law enterprises to public law, with all that that implies. We believe, of course, in the control of legality. We believe that a well-functioning institutional framework is absolutely essential so that the sustainability of cooperatives can also be guaranteed the benefit of producers from their participation in them. However, the institutional framework that it needs is what will release creative forces and not encroach on them in the trap of bureaucracy, an institutional framework that will perceive the environment in which agricultural production is moving and does not impose existing structures and procedures, which remind us of last century's publicity.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u87	John, get in that for this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u88	I shall conclude, Mr President, immediately. An institutional environment that allows innovation, rewards positive initiatives and encourages self-energy, when it has a democratic background and when it produces beneficial results for all farmers. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating is management and not radical. It does not face the acute problems of the rural world or open up streets to exploit the great potential for growth...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u89	For this. How's the New Democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u90	...they do exist in the primary sector. For these reasons, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy is voting against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u91	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, at this morning's meeting, the Prime Minister referred to the processes of the centre-left space and complained that they did not include him and his Left. He has, of course, said to all tons that he does not belong to the centre-left. At the same time today he told us that the centre-left should include the Left. We agree with both. But who Left, Mr. Tsipras? The one with self-interested authority, or the one with last year's laughter, led the country back? Do you call ‘Left’ the opaque procedures and derogating project assignments and, of course, these intakes carried out by way of a derogation from the AACC? What kind of left is it that adopts or even tolerates Cypriot methods, with which the Left has always been in conflict? Which Left, Mr. Tsipras? The one who intervenes rawly in justice, or the one who intervenes on the lists of molecules in competitions, or is the one who breaks into the meetings of the institutions to enforce what he wants to do? Is it the left who governs without a plan for the country, the one that hits everything productive and creative there is in this place? You are increasing insurance contributions for farmers and you are looking after an allowance instead of a pension. You are over-taxing the agricultural sector and production in general. Is it the left that burdens the low and medium-sized layers by increasing indirect taxes? You agreed tonight for 24% VAT. Is this the left which imposes excise duty on wine produced in our country at the same time as exempting big businessmen from the excise tax on gas with an amendment of left-wing Members? Is it the Left that gives millions, hundreds of millions of millions in seventy-seven great-speakers whose names you keep as a seven-speaking secret? Is it the left who for five months leaves unpaid workers in the 'Romokaterio' and for many months unpaid workers in social structures? What kind of left is it that demolishs social security, which even endured the hardest conservative policies of the past? What Left is she on the left about the situation in Idomeni, Piraeus and the Greek? Is this on the left constantly referring to the Pharmaceuticals Accident and inhibiting the four hundred dead, including many children, in 2015? Gentlemen of the government, in the fifteen months that you've been in power, you have proved that if there's nothing you can't bike, a process or an institution, you're pulling it out or destroying it. With this Madour's Left, Mr Tsipras, we really have nothing to do with it and we do not want to have anything to do with it. In 2011 the PASOK government introduced to the Greek Parliament a policy to highlight the potential of Greece and the regions. Among other things, the product basket and the new establishment of the agri-food partnership for the development of the agri-food sector in each region was established. It is the productive and creative community of each region in which, in addition to regional government, producer groups are involved, cooperatives, chambers, private companies of the primary and secondary sectors and other stakeholders. It is the combination of forces that every place needs to make the jump forward, to get the country out of the misery of recycling measures and recession. The agri-food partnership created in Crete is an example of good practice. Within a short period of time it has multiplied its members, and today it has on its assets a hundred and fifteen members and eighty certified businesses. The main axes of the activity of the agri-food partnership include, inter alia, certification, provided the conditions are met, the standard products, the certification of the catering areas, hotels and restaurants with the "Cretan Cuisine Quality Mark", the certification of the Cretan products branded as "Cretan Bakaliko", the certification of visiting wineries, an action that is in progress, the promotion and promotion of the agricultural food products of Crete and something very important, the interconnection of the primary sector with tourism, the agri-food sector with the millions of visitors in our country. At a meeting of the representatives of the agri-food partnership of the Region of Crete, the Vice-President of Lionis and the regional advisor and the chairman of the agri-food partnership, Manolis Hnaris, with the Deputy Minister for Rural Development, presented and discussed the great work that the partnership is doing in Crete. The same meeting also raised the question of amending the institutional framework for the possibility of agri-food partnerships in the regions to do more than was given to them by the previous law. I read from the press release: "The Minister, Mr. Markos Bolaris, after congratulating the Region of Crete on this project, which is first in Greece and is a new modern view of the development of the agri-food sector, stressed that this approach is capable of offering the necessary dynamics so that the products of Crete are in the majority certified for their quality and are traveling with added value and under the quality mark "KRITI" on the most expensive shelves of international markets. He promised that as far as the request for a change of institutional framework is concerned, he would support the effort to widen the scope. Unfortunately, today the government is recommending that agri-food partnerships die. After mentioning some of what the previous article says about the possibilities of agri-food partnerships, it says that they cannot in the sense of promotion, promotion, etc. to include a number of actions that effectively remove the enormous potential of this institution to highlight the products of each region.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u93	Mr. Kegeroglu, you must end up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u94	In the Committee of the Regions, Mr President, where the regions come and show us their activities, apart from the Region of Crete, Mr Agorastos of the Region of Thessaly, other regional authorities, started and spoke about their work from the agri-food partnership, from this institution that the government is today abolishing. Do you have that right? Do you have the right to drown the creative forces of each region? You don't have it, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u95	Thank you. Mr. Ahmet Ilhan has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u96	However, such expressions as 'Cypriot methods' and so on, Mr President, I would ask whether they are or will not be spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u97	I said to make an intervention a little humorous that we are talking about agricultural cooperatives and not about political cooperatives, but I let it evolve so that we don't have convergings.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u98	That's right. You always do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u99	From there on, if he wants me to delete them, I will gladly delete them, but he must tell me. You have the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the area of Thrace has perhaps been the most clear example of moral depreciation and economic plundering of large cooperative associations and factories set up in the region since the 1970s and have given for some thirty years the development of the primary sector, jobs and prosperity to a large number of producers. With tolerance and sometimes the strengthening of the state, a closed system of cooperative operations was structured without democratic control of the decisions of the administrations, without accountability, without financial transparency guarantees, with an unacceptable system of indirect election through representatives of the members of the administrations that ensured the continuation of the same peasants - trade unionists in the administrations of the cooperatives that many of them never gave a say in justice about the consequences of their actions. The cooperatives made out of the sacrifices, properties and work of pure farmers many decades ago ended up becoming rhetorical mechanisms of "loser", enlargement of the wider public sector, and were identified in the consciousness of society by the money-sharing scheme against the restructuring of agricultural production in Greece. The crucial question, Minister, is: What cooperatives do we want? Who will these cooperatives serve? How will they be built? What are the results we expect from their establishment and operation? Our answer to this question is that we want healthy, sustainable cooperatives following conditions of transparency, accountability, social control, which will serve the real interests of farmers and operate in the context of healthy competition and the private economy, in order to defend their members' incomes as players in an extremely demanding international environment for the marketing and movement of quality agricultural products. You, Minister, do the opposite. You insist on the existence of a special law on agricultural cooperatives with state intervention, with exhaustive regulation of certain issues, such as the formation of the Board of Directors, antiquities, several windows and exceptions. But cooperatives are not the exercise of procedures and bureaucratic arrangements. The cooperative wants to be productive and profitable to its members. We must not be afraid to say that, that is, that cooperatives in fact must make profits. The question is whether this project that this government brings is taking steps to actually lead to the restructuring of the cooperative for the benefit of farmers and society. The response of all actors is no. We saw the committee. Of the innovations you had announced in the consultation some things were indeed very nice. But a few things have left, Minister, unfortunately. At this point I would like to table in the Minutes the proposal for this bill of the Thrace Smoking Association, which I believe is worthwhile. [[At this point, Member Ilhan Ahmet submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Ladies and gentlemen, despite the announcements and fiery reasons of the old cut of policies on the need to stimulate domestic production, this government has unfortunately not taken any real care to strengthen the agricultural world. You electioned these. Finally, as a descendant of Thrace and having a special interest in producing tobacco, I would like, Minister, to tell you some things. First of all, I would like to say that if tobacco is not used in addition to pillar 2 on arable land, it will not be a matter of simply extinction, but of a social group with all the consequences that might result from this. In the final negotiations on the new CAP, you know that for reasons of great socio-economic importance, it is possible for tobacco growers to be given indirect support. Of the total available available in pillar 2, amounting to EUR 2.2 billion, the sum of EUR 3 per kilo in order to keep these people in this area, it is in line with European practice that barren areas when they are monoculture must be supported. You need to take care of it. Minister, I really want you to visit Thrace. How is it possible for a tobacco grower with a EUR 5,000 income, with a zero allowance, to live? Is it possible for twenty-five thousand people to give up? Is that the government? Please tell me what the ministry thinks. These days all brokers want to buy tobacco. More than we MPs turn the villages. Why? Because all the large tobacco industries, such as the 'PHILLIP MORRIS', are looking for the Basma type tobacco to buy them. Are there going to be insurance handles from you? So there will be no application of the guarantee letter law? Are we going to leave tobacco producers at the mercy of these companies? What are you thinking? It is not under this legislation, of course, but in general your Government and the Ministry have completely left the countryside, especially tobacco growers. Notable and I'm ending with it, Basma Xanthi is the only area left in Greece that grows tobacco. In other areas, the wine variety of Virginia and the other varieties ended. The Basma type smoke that so much we advertise represents about 3.5 billion taxes in the Greek state. Why would we give up these people? If after two years we don't have culture, what happens? Greece won't lose money from this? Mr Minister, thank you very much and I want you to give some other response at some other stage.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u101	Thank you, too. It closes the fiveteenth with Mr. Ioannis Karagiannis. The Minister will then take the floor, Mr Apostolos, and then Mr Paulakis will speak to defend his amendment. I will give the names of the colleagues who will follow to inform them, because a lot of them are not in the Chamber. In Stepma, Mr. Koutsoukos, Mr. Manatis, Mr. Balauras, Mr. Diaras, Mr. Tasoulos, Mrs. Iglesis, Mr. Kasapidis, Mr. Papaleou and Mr. Yoyakas, who is in number 15. I hope that we will go by 20, but by 15 I have also given the names for the Members to be notified. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the essential approach and objective criticism of this bill must, in my view, focus on three questions: Firstly, if this is lawful with the basic principles and values of cooperation, as established in 1995 at the Manchester World Cooperatives Conference. Secondly, if it supports the development of cooperatives and cooperative entrepreneurship. Thirdly, if it promotes the social economy as a decisive factor in the development of primary production and the country's new agri-food model. The answer to the first question is positive and there is no question of it. The new draft law is not only legitimate with the basic principles and values of co-operation, but it comes to restore their lost value after many years of co-operation with specific policies in our country. It comes essentially to correct the causes of the failure of the cooperatives in Greece. And what are these? Firstly, antiquated legislation. The legal framework for cooperatives has so far been a key focus for policy-making and, as it has proved, manipulation of cooperatives, especially agricultural, used as a policy instrument with mainly party and non-transparency processes. Secondly, the opaque and, in many cases, corrupt business dealings of co-operatives with state and parties. Thirdly, the reassurance of members and cooperatives in the policy of subsidies. Fourthly, the lack of cooperative education. Fifthly, the absence of strict control mechanisms. Sixthly, the lack of long-term strategic planning and export policy geared to market needs. Seventhly, the lack of modern methods of organisation and the separation of elected administrations with the necessary technology management for each modern business. The above reasons have come to mind that one out of seven people on the planet is a member of a cooperative and that there are a thousand five hundred cooperatives, of which nine hundred thirteen in the European Union, with a total of three billion euros. The second original question is about supporting cooperative entrepreneurship by this bill. Where does the opposite result from? Ladies and gentlemen, we must not forget that, regardless of its legal form, a modern business will be able to survive within this competitive environment, it will have to satisfy specific consumer needs, have modern organisation, internal control, competent and dedicated executives, strategy and objectives. Who is preventing a modern partnership from being organized in this direction? Unless necessary and necessary checks are considered problematic, which would call into question even the internal control department of listed public limited companies. Who really prevents the creation of social economy business rings for both economies of scale and for reasons of extroversion? But what business partnership are we talking about today, when the turnover of the remaining cooperatives in Greece touches 900 million and their debts exceed 3 billion? How will some of them be reorganised without serious business plans, control and search for responsibility for acts and omissions by members of boards and directors-general? The third original question is whether this bill promotes the social economy at a difficult time for the country and how this space can play an important role in development. As modern cooperatives were born at the same time as the birth of modern capitalism, so now the crisis will become an opportunity to regenerate the social economy. The social capital may be low in Greece and there may be a lack of consistent web, which is necessary for cooperatives, but the recession and the under-tonned business activity create gaps for the development of new cooperatives both in primary production and in cooperative faith. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say that no regional development model is lacking in the social economy area. Support for our national products and the promotion of the comparative advantages of the Greek region cannot be carried out without modern cooperatives and producer groups. The country's new agri-food model with the production of high-priced and quality products cannot include businesses in the central economy for the benefit of producers and consumers, in particular with the possibilities offered by the new CAP. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your attention. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u103	Me, too. Minister, you have the floor for eighteen minutes, please. You are an experienced colleague and I hope that is enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u104	Ladies and gentlemen of PASOK, it is certain that when the Prime Minister spoke about the Left, he did not mean your Left of the International Monetary Fund's governance... [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] ...and not, of course, your Left, as expressed in the cooperative space all these years. Ladies and gentlemen, believe me that it would be very different if we had even few organisations in the rural area that could defend him. The government had no reason to bring this legislation in. We have other priorities, many other issues, but reality is different. Agricultural cooperatives with your own, colleagues of the New Democracy and PASOK, laws - wonderful laws, as you said - went bankrupt. In addition to a minimum of exceptions, they are unable to offer the minimum service to their members. This alone made it necessary to adopt the new law, how much more so when you know that we have before us a programme for rural development, we have too many issues that we definitely need to have a strong cooperative movement. Of course, you are responsible for the situation and you know it. And instead of helping to rescue and rehabilitate what's even left of this institution, you chose the sterile opposition. You'll tell me that most of the space operators have reacted. Ladies and gentlemen, the present situation, which is represented by the operators, also has a huge responsibility, either because they have served or because they have tolerated it. We'll see you? That's the way it is. In fact, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you have called on the institutions to listen to the situation in which cooperatives have been responsible in recent years, PASPEGES. Didn't you blame them for mismanagement and diversion from their roles? You know, of course, that those of you who have not dared this function for years, we have done so within a short period of time. You didn't have the courage to do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u105	You're confusing the institution with faces.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u106	We are abolishing its illegal funding for over 40 million euros in recent years, because our country was in danger of having other charges in breach of European law. We called on the property to be transferred to Thermi, because it was violating the concession terms and subscribing it by collecting more than EUR 500,000 per year. This money now comes to the public.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u107	Charakopoulos started this. Be fair.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u108	So you knew all of this and insisted on supporting an institution that the members of the board of directors are leaving today. You're accusing us of dismantling the operation of the cooperatives. Really, which cooperatives do you mean? The nonexistent? I told you - and I repeat - of the six and a half thousand cooperatives, with different names, organisations in the area, today only twenty are economically viable. These, like some others who don't exceed 50, keep them, help them. But for the others, what do we do, watch them like this indifferently? Did we break them up? Have they not contributed to the fragmentation of the cooperative movement, to alienating producers from their organisations and above all to the prevalence of mismanagement, waste, to the dismantling of a large part of the money managed by them? In fact, I have not heard you say any of the representatives, especially the parties in the former coup d'état, about their overdue debts of more than EUR 3 billion, while at the same time asking us for EUR 600 million from the European Union to be charged against them. Where will this money be collected from, for example, the 100 million of the Near Package that was given in 2008, the 500 million of the New Democracy and Morais package of the party you co-administered together - and there are responsibilities - which were given in 1992 and 1994? For this management, do not all these executives and you who have given this aid without the approval of the European Commission? Whilst, if you did this - even if you were to do so - you could really haunt the necessity that existed at the time and do not today have the great problems of confrontation. Of course, for this policy - and for your officials and yours - there may be other responsibilities, other than politicians, because omissions are made and I repeat that. Did you believe that all these debts can be served through false sustainability? Why did you make such a thing to serve your own working fathers. Or do you think we can do something like this today? Ladies and gentlemen, much of these debts relate to public loans guaranteed. This means that any settlement of their debts also requires a settlement of the guaranteed loans, which can only be done under special laws or ministerial decisions and, of course, only after the European Commission has been approved, so that we do not have new allocations. Do not tell me that these are fine letters, because I will tell you that for the 100 million million of the 'Near' package, 100% of which had the Greek State's guarantee in 2013. But, because, as I said before, the aid was found illegal, it is not possible to break the guarantee. Tell us, ladies and gentlemen, how are we going to resolve these ferocious ties that you have inherited us? How can it be possible with plastic viability to serve so many debts? Mr Karayannis mentioned four times the overall turnover of the site. Do you realize that this is how there can be an economic viability study? Because, ladies and gentlemen, you are accusing us of interference, we are telling you that for us the role of the state in this area is the creation of a stable environment in which democratic institutions will function, of course, in accordance with national legal provisions and European regulations. I read a small passage from the approach adopted by the institutions in the draft law. I do this, not because I have the need to congratulate the institutions, but to see how the things you yourself can't see! Refers to the quote: “This law introduces several modernisms. It replaces previous provisions and has the quality to be clear. This law simplifies and facilitates the creation of cooperatives and other forms of agricultural organisations." Even these institutions, which you and we know and experience, can say two words. Could you not say a word that there is an attempt here to organize the space and get rid of all the things that the space has experienced so far? It does not allow me time, but I want to mention this: I cannot understand your view that the majority should not elect all the administrative bodies. We have brought the crusade of 1/3 for the simple reason that the space can function democratically and create administrations that can and can respond to what we call 'democratic function', but also agree at the same time. You want 50%, because you have learned to create such majorities as Mr Papadopoulos said in committee: how many are the members of the board of directors? All ten to be on one side. That's what you want to do!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u109	Download paradoxical lists. You'll have to download orders then.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u110	That's what you want to do. Because you do not want in a society to link solidarity, mutual trust and transparency to them. You want solid, manipulative majorities and we do not agree with these regulations. It is quite a different approach. We, ladies and gentlemen, want the composition through democratic dialogue, in order to build a wide and strong administrative majority, for the benefit of all members of the cooperative and not a closed unit. Ladies and gentlemen, we have not wanted to condemn the hundreds of years of cooperative operation and the six laws that followed them all these years. There are provisions that have been tested and endured in time, by all laws. These, the worthy, have been maintained. But the laws - in fact, I am talking about the last - 2180/2000 and 4015/2011, with about thirty-seven amendments that have been tabled, unfortunately, have not been able to prevent the total collapse of the cooperative movement, and that is why they are changing. And like the original law, n. 602/2015, it did not contain any provisions on the coordination of cooperatives, so now it was considered appropriate, as was then appropriate, that this organization should emerge through a wide, serious dialogue, all the primary cooperatives, on the form and role that this central organisation will represent them. For a cooperative movement that tries to regenerate through a period of mistakes and unscrupulous strategic choices, which led to the decline, the only solution is for its members to choose democratically the new shape, which will guide it and represent the new path of the cooperative space. It is the duty of all cooperatives to discuss and agree on the next day. You still think - I told you in committee, I will tell you here - the PASPEG trips to the various agencies. There will be representation through the space through these processes, which will really be the one giving and fighting in the spaces abroad that it needs. Not to mention the battles you have fought with the Council of Agriculture Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. As long as I can inform you that at the time our country had the presidency in the Agriculture Council, the initial agreement on feta was signed, without the Greek Presidency knowing it, and today we are going to block the agreements and fight them. In order to find out how, in difficult and critical issues, this defence has been the case. You have reacted to the office of Presidents in the cooperatives, which will be up to two consecutive, from now on. Listen: We want to prevent the occurrence of statusal phenomena, which identified a collective institution, such as cooperatives, with a person for a long period of time - and we tell you this - as capable and active as this person is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u111	Since the previous ones were failed. Can we get the losers back?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u112	It's a matter of perception. We therefore clearly say that the long-term stay of administrations in cooperatives has been accompanied by markedly negative results and bankruptcys. And that's what we're gonna stop. We want to achieve, by means of state supervision, the operation and alteration of the administration of these sites. At the time of Communism, ladies and gentlemen, because you have constantly mentioned it, even if we had the opportunity, we do not want it. Because, quite simply, this period has passed now. Dive it up and the sooner you digest it, the more useful you may be, especially in this particular area. Do not seek persons who have been corrupted through this procedure. We therefore want to highlight, through our new approach, strong agricultural cooperatives and producer organisations, in line with their international cooperation principles. To this end, we are making use of the nationally and Europeanly tested method of the register, which is becoming a key tool for the recording and evaluation of cooperatives. We are recommending a person of private law, of a non-profit nature - and we stress that - and this is about cooperative education and training. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that - and especially the rural area - we want to restore what has been missing for many years, cooperative training and education. That's our target, and don't put any more thoughts on it. You mentioned in particular the body which wants to make use of the agricultural land, the public's agricultural property, and - I would say to you - more extensively in public space and, if possible, to incorporate private land into the effort. Do you know that at this hour from the eighteen and a half million acres that the Ministry has - because that is how the evidence shows - only the two hundred seventeen thousand are clean and we can use them to serve what we say? And what about the purpose of this body? The aim is rural activity. The aim is to see how we put special young people into agricultural production. Does it bring to your mind this thing that we want to put in the HR, do we want to put out sales procedures? We've made that clear. And because the pain caught you, you say we want to set up within a night of so many people. You with "GROEN" caught a night with two hundred and fifty people. We, by regulation, dismantle the 'GREEN' because it offered absolutely nothing. That's where the party clientele was. You won't see cases like this in us. So support an effort, which really wants to help the rural area. Ladies and gentlemen, you have not understood that for us cooperatives are not just economic units. And the cooperatives were deported to our country not only because of their economic weakening, but because they were in practice socially questioned. They were unable to meet the demands of the times, the demands of the farmers who participated in them and, above all, they were unable to play a social role. Their social role has always been exhausted in funding, which did not respond to their possibilities and serves purposes - which you very well know - through the workers who managed these fundings. From now on, the state will recognise and defend the existing cooperatives, which will be founded on democratic organization and operation, and their legitimacy will be guaranteed by the universalist - I repeat, the universalist! - and active participation by producers. In this context, our bill is moving. We will say more tomorrow for individual articles and in particular for amendments brought by our Members, but they are necessary to move forward in this area. You see, Mr President, what is constantly being sought is when the payments are to be made, what will be done, and so on. I would therefore like, as they hear us from farmers, to tell them that the payments will be made within the year that we promised them. And to be clearer, more than 650 million will be directed to the rural area of the Great Week and concerned with 'green', they concern the rest of the basic aid and concern the balancing especially of the smaller Aegean islands. We - as we commit - through the battles we are giving to the difficult conditions that the new CAP has created us, are consistent and continue to serve the area. We're going to fight for the rural world. We have a great deal of time ahead of us and keep in mind that these battles will be fruitful and we will not be in the process of discussing the same thing today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u113	I assume that in the phrase that you said about the amendments 'our Members' amendments', you meant the Members of the Greek Parliament as a whole. I note that because I have seen that there are others who have tabled amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u114	That's right, he said. It's a complicity, he said it was fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u115	Tomorrow I will see how many will be accepted by the government MPs and how many of the opposition. I guess it was a horrific mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u116	That's right, we'll see tomorrow. Let's see how the game is played.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u117	Mr President, of course the Members. I did not mean 'our Members', but, in general, the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u118	Okay, I'm making the clarification because I've known you from the past, and I appreciate you and you know it. Mr Alexiadis has the floor. Come and see you once, Mr Alexiadis, here in front of the Stepma. Your amendments are unavoidable. I hope that five minutes will be enough for you and perhaps it will also be a wider acceptance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u119	Sure. Very briefly, these are the amendments tabled by Mr Juliarakis and Mr Tsakalotos, but because of the responsibilities which are in the negotiation I have come to explain them. It is the amendment with a general number of 345 and a special 48 giving the possibility of retroactive effect of decisions adopted under Article 20 of Law No.4354/2015 on the compensation of work in excess or supplementing compulsory working hours for the staff of legal persons governed by public law and private law, in order to enable the payments relating to the first half of 2016. Since those legal persons who were unable to draw up their budgets in a timely manner, the relevant decisions of the boards of directors were delayed and, consequently, published, the proposed regulation for 2016 became necessary. This regulation deals with the question raised at the time of application of Law No.4354 concerning compensation for overtime work for the period prior to the adoption of the relevant decisions of the relevant management boards. A large number of demands have been made in this direction for this amendment from the health sector, which relates, above all, to this sort of normalization. More details on these matters may be given by the person responsible, Mr Paulakis. In addition, Amendment No 347 and Amendment No 50 - which introduces the maintenance of payment of the allowance in the case of the granting of legally adopted licences, since these have been granted in order for the State to meet its basic obligations, such as the necessary rest period, the protection of maternity, family and childhood, the needs of the retraining of officials, etc. Therefore, the adoption of the above licences cannot result in a negative impact on the remuneration of the staff member. The purpose of this arrangement is to restore the beneficiaries of the benefit of dangerous and unhealthy work, which had been put outside the scope of the applicable provision. They are effectively restored as beneficiaries mainly women with maternity leave and suffering from severe and incurable illnesses, e.g. Mediterranean anemia, which requires frequent blood transfusions that take compulsory days of leave due to their state of health and which lack payment of the allowance without significantly burdening the budget expenditure. It should be noted that the payment for those who receive a trade union licence is expressly prohibited, as is also the provision that the obligation to align the relevant regime with European legislation is still in place until 31/12/2017. On the issues of this second amendment, we have had too many requests from the health and local authorities. It can be explained more by Mr. Paulakis. I would ask that they be accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr Alexiadis. Mr. Paulakis has the floor. Because it's four in one, there's gonna be a tolerance of time, but it's good to collect it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u121	Yeah, I'll be brief. Thank you very much. I would also like to thank the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development, which has accepted the tabling of this amendment, because they are regulations which they solve - I am talking about the amendment with a general number of 344 and a special 47 - many serious problems that have arisen in the attempt to put this amendment back to us for a year in the health sector. In particular, Article 1 of this amendment clarifies and clarifys the provision of Article 97 of Law No4368 on the major issue of private storage, feeding and cleaning facilities in hospitals. We are clear - because individual contracts have been launched, rather than against attempting to prevent these contractors from leaving hospitals - that the insurance coverage of the natural persons who contribute to these bodies will be in IKA - EAF, that a ceiling on the expenditure of these contracts is provided for each natural person and that the benefits are those provided for on the basis of the single wage bill in the public sector. In other words, as if he were a civil servant, he will take this money with reservations about the IKA - EBRD, labour and employers' contributions. This is an urgent regulation, as it will also cover contracts which have already been concluded at the time, during which there has been a confusion in explaining the terms of which they were subject. Article 2 of this amendment solves an issue that concerns about six hundred agricultural doctors who participated in the notice of agricultural doctors on 29-1-2016. As you know, the law of the parallel programme abolished the compulsoryity of the farmer before the start of the specialty and transferred this requirement before the examination. These six hundred people, therefore, bring them on an equal footing, whether they were agricultural or not. Because they applied for six hundred for about three hundred jobs. We give them the opportunity, in other words, to submit their papers and, like the other colleagues who now do not have to start agricultural - and for the main part of specialisation, as can their colleagues from now on and start specialization. Secondly, with paragraph (c) we are able to second agricultural doctors, as we have transferred this possibility from the Ministers to the governors of the healthcare regions, in order to cover needs and gaps which exist either in regional medical establishments, in health centres or in hospitals. There was an empty law in this provision, which we also cover. We are also giving them the opportunity, once they can be seconded to hospitals and the needs of hospitals, to participate in the pay of additional newspapers, the well-known 9%, which has not covered them so far. Because in fact, when you offer work and do more on-calls than the seven mandatory, since there is the possibility that hospitals have such resources - and they now have, because they are funded - rural doctors may also be able to take part in these on-calls. With Article 4, we resolve an issue, which concerns public IEK Nursing, which came from the abolition of EPCs by law of 2013. In the law passed in 2014, practically, there was a piece of staff left by the EPAs that were abolished in the air. We provide for this staff to be arranged and for these organic posts to be transferred to hospitals or to the DIEKs that have been left. This solves an issue concerning these people who were on the air. With Article 4 of the amendment, we are legalising the costs of the ICMs and hospitals incurred up to 31-3-2016 in an extension of the previous period of up to 30-6-2015, so that a smooth supply of hospitals and health centres can continue. It concerns cases which have expired. After all, they buy at the Observatory's levels and prices on the basis of the decisions we have made in the parallel program. I come to Article 5, which is a very great innovation. It solves a serious problem. It starts from the health sector, but we believe and want to extend - and the Ministry of Administrative Reform - to other areas of the public sector, because it will have a real beneficial impact on the functioning of the public sector and on the recruitment process. What does Article 5 say? In fact, we say this and I will say it with one example: for a nurse who is working today in a state hospital or in a health centre, if there is a new notice, as it was in November, in which he has the constitutional right to submit his papers and understands a position in Chalkida, what has been happening so far is that he was leaving the state of Nice and went and took the place in Chalkida. His place is empty, not covered. So, you get one, you lose one, you're the same. In other words, the nine hundred and eighty-five, let's say, which we announced in November, may be 15% of those who are already serving. We therefore give the possibility with this amendment to cover the position of a staff member who left Nice, from the final list of rankings of the notice made and to give retrospective effect to the November declaration - the 4K and the 5K of the nine hundred and eighty-five seats - because, despite the Cassandras, these people began to be appointed to the hospitals. Article 6 provides that there are three provisions concerning the EEA. A new way of clearing has begun, where there will be a great deal of satisfaction with the EPPY providers. This year it starts, now. January for the first time is cleared to 100% of expenditure and not an advance payment of 90% and 10% in time and, in two, three, four, five years, you are running my legs! We give the possibility of clearing up with a sample check and a procedure agreed with the Court of Auditors and, in fact, supplementing this with the first paragraph. The Court of Auditors Commissioners want, if necessary, to have access to the complete physical documentation and not only to the 10% we control and statistically clear the liquidation, or not. Also, because for the first time we set up a drug negotiation committee, which started working, we predict an administrative elimination penalty from the positive list of medicines to a company, which we will tell them "Come to negotiate the price of your medicine" and doesn't come. Because we are very busy here in Greece and some drugs, which elsewhere pay 20,000, we pay for 50,000 and 60,000. So now we're starting to negotiate. I want to open a parentheses here. A front is being created by both Portugal and Italy, with the intervention of Andreas Xanthos at the recent Council of Ministers, for joint negotiation and joint front with pharmaceutical companies, in order to achieve a pan-European reduction in these prices of medicines, which are unacceptablely high in many things. The third paragraph of Article 6 also provides for accounting. In other words, we are eradicating from the EEA debt to the hospitals the amount by which the hospitals were financed from the state budget. To give you one example, this is a debt of the central government, which is a fictitious one. If I operate in a hospital and do a buffalo and put on a grid, this grid has been purchased from money that the state budget gave to the hospital. However, the hospital asks the EEAY for a closed integrated hospital, including the price of the grid used for me and bought with other money. So what the hospitals took from the state budget and have invoiced it as a closed unified hospital to the EEA, is extinguished equally. This eradicates about 3 billion central government debt. Article 7 covers an empty law that was in existence for the recruitment of ancillary staff to the EAW, where there was no denomination that subsidiary doctors would be covered by the staff of the EAW. Article 8 gives an extension - small, but it is necessary - to some hospital boards, until the end of the quarter of the extension and cannot meet. It does not concern many hospitals, but it is some and we are giving an extension of the term of office of the staff members of the boards until the new governors and sub-commanders are placed, which has already begun and will be accelerated rapidly in the next few days. That's all. Indeed, the two amendments of the Ministry of Finance are very good. The first concerns the approval of overtime...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u122	All right, we've heard that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u123	Just say...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u124	I've left you twice as much time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u125	You're right, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u126	Mr. Ioannis Koutsoukos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr President. Fortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister for Rural Development preceded us and told us how he fantasizes that he is left. The accident, however, is that it is the Minister who is responsible for the development of the country's primary sector. I would invite Mr Papachristopoulos, the rapporteur of the ANELs, who told us that he was going to the cafés, to go to a café in a rural area to tell them why they are left-wing. Because, Minister, I do not think there has ever been a left who places taxes and increases contributions to farmers. You discovered him. Also left that increases the cost of production is your invention. Ladies and gentlemen, the left that abolishes a historical conquest of farmers, the OGA, which we made in 1997 a main insurance fund and we protected it from the Memorandum policies, can it be proud? The left man who accepted the milk of eleven days, and in any case we'll have a yogurt of dust, what kind of left is it? But can a left man be impeccable? Proud of the feta? Does not Mr. Apostle, his old friend, was Mr. Vangelis Argyris, his acquaintance, what battles were fought by this party to secure the feta as a PDO product against all competitors? Can a left man tell us that now democracy has come to the country? Well, didn't you understand, Minister, when the 'GREEN' was abolished? What part did you play then? What positions did you take when we tried to clean up this vicious regime that was created? In any case, the left-hand, ladies and gentlemen, does not break down but builds and recognises any institutional interventions which were of a democratic and collective nature. Minister, it is our law that cleared the cooperatives - seals, which pulled them out of a patch - they were turning the seals to the asshole - a process that formed associations and so on. What position did you take when we brought the law? The left man must recognize at least the record. You're telling the law. Recognize that we did it and recognise the major institutional changes, that we got rid of the ELGA and that the ELGA is now healthy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u128	You put it in the general government debt and entered the IMF.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u129	What did you say, Mr. Comrade? From the ELGA, did we enter the IMF? Yes, sir! Do you hear, Minister, what the majority Members say? From the ELGA, we entered the IMF. When there are people in this Chamber today, ladies and gentlemen, who say that due to the fact that we cleaned up the ELGA and made it financially self-powered, it can pay on time for farmers, that was our crime and we entered the debt, how do we get to know from there? Ladies and gentlemen, if you were to ask the regions of the country that come to the Committee of the Regions, which I am participating, they will tell you that their first project, starting and ending in relation to support for the agri-food sector in their region, is the basket of products, which is based on the agri-food partnership. Mr. Kegeroglou mentioned in detail what the Region of Crete has done: With certification in consultation with the hoteliers. We've been told by Mr. Katsifaras and other regional officials. Why are you deceiving them, Minister? Why don't you let them develop their activities? Is the left one who does not allow the cooperatives to develop and puts them in a narrow shoe, where 80% of production has to go to the cooperative, so it cannot work if it does not, and so it does not intervene where the farmer is currently suffering, namely in the field of handling supplies, in order to reduce production costs, since you do nothing? Are you not telling me, Minister, on the issues of education and training, that we must set up a central mechanism, a state-owned unit or release this activity into cooperatives? I, ladies and gentlemen, could say a great deal about the fact that this bill, while it could be a positive development in the field of organisation, because we need the organization of farmers in the face of the crisis in the agricultural sector, in fact it will become the graveyard with the constraints it puts and the central state interventions. This is our objection. Do you not tell me, Minister, what interests do you serve by abolishing the forced cooperatives in Chios and Samos? Can you tell me what caused you by the mastic of Chios and the wines of Samos? You tell us here, colleagues will find out. And can I tell you something else, Minister? Someone who could have reasons with some faces at PASPEGES is me, coming from the party that her president resigned to fight the law of ours. Do you remember that? But it is not your fault that the highest expression of farmers, representing our country and negotiating in the institutions of Europe, nor can you deprive the agricultural cooperative movement of the highest expression. And in the end, what's your fault? Why don't you deal with these issues? I, ladies and gentlemen, could deal with a number of issues which would be the subject of a serious and substantial debate, but, unfortunately, there is still a misery going on here. Where there are institutions that are not complete, instead of facilitating their completion, we come to intervene inside their operation and create a new vicious circle that takes them a step further. This will be the result of your bill, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u130	Mr. Maniotis John has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, this morning Mr Tsipras complained to us that we did not include him on the centre-left side. Yes, we do not include him on the centre-left, because the centre-left has the left component and the administration Tsipras is not left because it has nothing to do with the left. It has nothing to do with Leonidas Kyrikos the administration of Tsipras. It has nothing to do with Michael Papayannakis, the Tsipra government. It has nothing to do with real leftists, many of whom, we have relatives, grandparents and left-wing fathers, but who did not cash their children and grandchildren their struggles with their grandparents and their fathers with public appointments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u132	You're telling me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u133	He didn't show you. He said in general.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u134	You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u135	He went to create a misunderstanding, and I solved it before it started.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u136	Good. Thank you very much. That is why Mr. Tsipras, his beloved Mr. Kammenos, cannot belong either to social democracy or to the central left. These are the answers. Why the Left is not a governance which is making a deeper focus on the justice that ignores and leaves the independent authorities, a so-called Left that makes direct awards and protests from the Public Contract Authority that 70% of the awards are not passed on from it. And, of course, the left is not the one that the creators and producers of any innovative product, which is the middle class, sends them to Kaidas. And most of all, the left is not the party, which increases the most unfair horizontal tax, which is VAT. Why if this recommends Left, then what happened in 2014 with VAT reductions, what is it? So let Mr. Tsipras' complaints to himself, his history of the mirror, his partners, who have already chosen them as Ministers and then come to make complaints to anyone else. And above all, the left is not a rule of incredible lies, ideologies, demagogues and populism, which has mainly deceived and above all the farmers we are discussing today. It is not left to rule, which increases VAT on supplies from 13% to 23%. It is not governance left, which increases the tax from 13% to 22%. It is not on the left that this governance, which increases the tax on wine and the only competitive agricultural processed product, is no longer competitive on the markets. And I'll tell you something, Minister, from my place, from Argolida. You know now, with all you've accomplished, how many acres does an orange producer want to live? He wants at least forty acres. Half of the orange producers have to leave their land, because with all you have done, with the "Anabalos" that you do not go forward while we left him ready, funded with the study and work ready, with ELGA and OPECPE, which you leave them, no longer makes sense for a farmer to fight to stay down. I shall now come to the bill, which we are discussing. I want to be very honest with all of you. I've been very concerned about whether our position is right. We will vote against your bill, because we say it's state-run, because it gives rise to unbearable stateism. I'll tell you something that might seem strange. In my perception of things, perhaps there is no need for legislation on agricultural union, there is no need for legislation on agricultural cooperatives. What are the agricultural cooperatives? They are farmers, producers, professionals, but they are private enterprises in the social economy. Denmark, why doesn't it have a law on cooperatives? The European countries, which have a serious trade union, why do they not have a special law? Why do they only work with the laws of the rest of the companies? We - because there have certainly also been major mistakes in the past - have come to the situation in which we are now in. Instead of releasing the healthy productive forces of farmers who want to open up markets, process their products, have marketing, move forward for those who want and those who match, start and put restrictions. Why, Minister, have you made it from thirty to twenty? Why at least twenty farmers to make cooperatives and not three that Belgium says or five says in the European directive? Why do you have to decide how to make their election ten people who will make a farm cooperative? Why do you have to tell them how and by what procedure they will choose, if they want to choose, their director-general? And why the director-general and not the marketing manager? Ladies and gentlemen, questions are now beginning to get too much. Do you know why these questions are raised? Because there is a completely distorted, misguided, ill - I mean it politically - backwards addressing the big problem called 'farmer union'. The only solution that can be found in this area is to leave the forces without any state intervention and what creative, innovative, extroverting and exporting to support it, to make good examples for all those who do not want to follow. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u137	The Chairman of the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs, Mr Balaurras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a word, a value, which has tormented all Europe and Greece. I would remind you that the first collaborative scheme in Greece in the 18th century was the Vineyards, the Association of the Vineyards. The words 'cooperative', 'cooperative', therefore, in England, Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands, have a serious situation and a great deal of market penetration. A lot of big businesses, even banks, are cooperative. Here this value, this idea, which shoved thousands and millions of people in Europe and Greece, as I said, was deceived, humiliated, eradicated and left the ashes, ashes of corruption, with lushives, with fatal money moving in unknown directions, i.e. a party that was inextricable, a party that finally perfected the word "cooperative". Finally? We'll see. However, I myself, elected in a rural area, in the Prefecture of Ilias, when I first came down to a Member, said the word 'cooperative'. I realized the farmers were getting plucked. Some were bored, so I realized it was a communal mistake to say the word "cooperative" and I started to say "cooperative arrangements". Unfortunately, this is how the previous governments have done, with this great party that they have set up in this area too. The bill, in my opinion, is intruding. It's a serious incision. It may not have had the boldness it was required, but it is of paramount importance and that is why I am calling for it. I cannot comment here on Mr Kegeroglu, who, on the occasion of a draft law on rural development and the structures of agricultural production, spoke about ghebaceous methods. I fell underneath. The President has justified me. He said that this phrase was unacceptable. He has left and I cannot say any more, nor am I interested in talking to Parliament like that anymore. I would like to address the Minister, Mr Apostleu, and say that he dared another matter. He daring for the amendment that we tabled thirteen SYRIZA Members for land workers, for irregular immigrants who are working throughout the country. I have evidence and important contacts from many aspects, and as a Member of Parliament now, but also before the movements that we were going to support these people, the irregular immigrants, who lived and continue to live, unfortunately, in terrible conditions. And especially when control of IKA's mixed scale or anyone else was coming, they dived like the messengers on the channels and reminded me of Savvopoulos' song "who breathes with reed" so that control of them does not take them away from work - these little money they took - and at the same time they were afraid of deportation. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall end by dwelling on three points concerning the amendment. It restores the human dimension of the worker. It's very important, it's very important to me. Secondly, employers will respect the laws completely from now on. There will be respect first of all for the workers, but also for the payment of the legal share, as well as for the benefit and payment from the bachelor. I say it is a benefit, because it will go to the company's expense and therefore be less taxed, it will be profitable. Ladies and gentlemen, I congratulate the Minister once again, because we are fifteen months government, and they are the ones who have accepted this important regulation, which humanises employment relations and gains moral advantage the product that producers make throughout Greece. We will no longer say 'true and blood'. We will talk about a product that is tasteful, nice and at the same time good-looking. It will not shed blood any more on the amendment that has been made and will go through the Greek Parliament. I also call on the other parties, at least this amendment, to vote on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u139	Thank you, too. Mr. Georgios Diaras has the floor. Because we arrived at 22.00 hours, five more colleagues will speak. It will be Mr. Tasoulas, Mrs. Inglezis, Mr. Kasapidis, Mr. Papaliou and Mr. Yoyakas. Let us delay this evening, so that other Members can speak tomorrow too. You have the floor, Mr. Deiaras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, the word "cooperative" was heard by a young child, a student in primary school, when in the village a literary teacher, exiled left in a mountainous village at the time, gathered the aggressors and told them "to withstand a partnership". He gave them the statutes, helped them. His name is Takis Capone. Indeed, he taught me and my small poor village endured and had a cooperative when other large villages had no partnership. So I learned the value of 'cooperative'. I cannot answer a few questions raised by the two PASOK colleagues who have spoken. They asked if he was a left man who puts taxes. I would also like to ask: are the social democrats who have broken up the country's economy? Are social democrats, with or without introductory terms, even new type, those who are fully integrated with aggressive capitalism? Is there a way left to the government without taxes to pay pensions when all the funds' reserves with their policy have disappeared? There are undoubtedly different ideological and political approaches to the issue of agricultural production, as well as to the organisation of the economy and society. One policy stimulates insurmountable competition in a main political choice, speculation as the only incentive to activate the factors of production. These policies of so-called neoliberalism, whether they say it openly or they cover it, support the large multinational enterprises, but not the many people, not the farmers. They support the unconscious market which leads to the absolute sovereignty of enterprises as the multinational company called "MONSANTO", which controls a large worldwide part of agri-foodstuffs and evolves into a global seed monopoly. There is no worse dependence of the country and of the farmers than that of the seeds. We already live it, and as long as the years pass, it will be stronger. The right-wing policy, expressed by the New Democracy, like the right-wing European People's Party, supports a disastrous transatlantic agreement for farmers between the European Union and the United States. That deal is called TTIP. I want the farmers to know that name, because that name of the agreement will be heard in the coming months and years. It will change the structure of both the economy and society if it is signed. Of course, this agreement is also based on a part of European social democracy and our PASOK. This agreement, which must not be passed by the European Parliament, by TTIP, threatens domestic agricultural production and, in particular, small producers, who will not be able to compete with large US and Canada, which is like a new common agricultural policy, more extensive but without subsidies. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] The survival of the small and medium-sized farmers is linked to their integration into healthy agricultural cooperatives. The real defence of society in the organisation of production is the so-called social economy, as are the agricultural cooperatives that we are discussing today. This perspective is supported by the political ecology and the modern left, i.e. SYRIZA and the Economists - Greens - who I express and represent in Parliament. In the process of discussion of the bill and at the hearing of the bodies, the Minister improved many articles, as should be done in democratic dialogue. Minister, with my colleague Mr Panjah, I have tabled an amendment to ban the captivity of coarse marine species for subjective public spectacles. It was abolished, as we know, the torture of the bear by the bear but not the dolphins. I believe that this amendment could be passed by this bill, although you have told me that you would like the Minister for the Environment to bring it. Also, Minister, I would like to mention two other issues: to be clear that the separate people's markets of bio-culture and support for sustainable agriculture will be maintained by us and, secondly, that the abolition of the four forced cooperatives will not be concluded by this law. That's my opinion. Cooperatives like the Crocorn producers of Kosani, like the mastics of Chios, must remain. The success of the cooperatives' foundation depends on the survival of farmers and on the country's food self-sufficiency. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u141	Thank you. Ioannina's colleague Mr Konstantinos Tsoulus speaks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u142	Mr President, the cooperative bill, the seventh draft law on this subject, after the first of 1915, is completely anachronistic. And it is absolutely anachronistic, as was the country's Prime Minister in the morning who spoke and expressed his sky-sucking question, because we are talking about the security of the country, and we should discuss the economy and investment. As if the security of the country had nothing to do with the economy and investment. As the security of the country and of the citizens is not a prerequisite for the economy to thrive and for investment. As anachronistic as Mr. Tsipras was in the morning, making this question, is equally anachronistic, and this bill on cooperatives, at the time when the country needs to be colluded, not to say headlines, in relation to times. The government, however, today - which is the product of the wrath and frustration of the world and not of its appreciation to you - creates a backwardness in everything, baptizes them "left" and "sympathetics" and goes for this backwardness, when it is clear that even the 1915 law was very pioneering compared to what you are doing here today and you are trying, through this law, to subject basic assumptions of economic performance to the human species. It is impressive to say that all civil law in a country, which is free and not totalitarian, is based on three positions: it is based on the freedom of contracts, it is based on the institution of property and it is based on the institution of succession. All three institutions, ownership, hereditary succession and freedom of contracts, go back to human nature. They don't go into some ideology, they go back to the human nature of creativity, the feeling that something belongs to me and the feeling that, after my life, what I own hereditary will be transferred to my children. These motives have nothing to do with ideology, I repeat. It is about human nature, which is intertwined with the propaganda, with creativity and with the interest, which the 'Left of Envy' - which you represent - has turned it into a hustle, a hideous monster, as if no one in this country is in his interest. We have described interest as some monster. We are introducing in 2016 laws that abolish the freedom of contracts and define cooperatives, legal forms where the law, the Ministry of Agriculture, describes how the elections are to take place, how the ballots will function, how the Minister of Agriculture determines the type and minimum content of the contracts by type of product, winning and repealing this decision. Where are we? Are we in a revival of Soviet perceptions? We're in a revival of naive perceptions, I'd say? Are we in a revival of unrealistic perceptions? All of this together compose the reason why, as the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Vlachos, has rightly argued, we will not vote for this anachronistic bill. And because you spoke - and the report says - about how the cooperatives were created in Greece, I would remind you that an elementary regression to history shows that the cooperative system in Greece was created by the Eleftherios Venizelos Government and by the National Bank, because the National Bank of Greece at the time and Eleftherios Venizelos wanted the latifs to be burned, when the big bricks were burned to support small private family farms. The characteristic of this method is the fact that 70% of cooperatives created in Greece from 1915 to 1920 were creditworthy. 30% concerned the production and distribution of products, because what burned the farmer at that time was a lack of credit. It should be noted that the 50 cooperatives of 1915 became a thousand six hundred in 1920, but 70% were creditworthy, because the main problem was funding. So, since 1915 in 2016, we have seen that this is a bill, which - I repeat - creates a Soviet-type, communist-type, cooperative-type ideoleptic organisation, while all this is being released and farmers are being allowed to develop their entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u143	Mr. Tasoula, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u144	It is therefore an anachronism, which we will not vote on. Proof of this anachronism is the sad image of the judges, where the rural world does not show the slightest interest and does not invest the slightest hope in this so-called pioneering initiative of yours, which, however, is deeply left-wing, deeply anachronistic.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u145	Thank you. Mrs Catherine Iglez has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not respond to the anachronism and so on, as Mr Tasulas has said. It's his opinion. Anachronism for me is neoliberalism, which he and all the rest of the New Democracy party embassy. Socialism is not anachronism. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is an important initiative by the government, which newly sets a key pillar in the country's productive reconstruction, the cooperative movement in the rural area. The history of rural co-operation is a long time and is a basic expression of the social economy in our country. With the arrangements of this bill, the agricultural cooperatives are given the role that suits them and emerges in a key pillar of the development of our country's agri-food system. The current economic landscape is bizarrely different but also'very identical' to the development period of the first cooperatives. The first agricultural cooperatives were called upon to deal with prejudice, shameful gain and tortoise. Today, the doctrine of the free market, along with the absence of controls and a legislative framework, is intensifying the already difficult position of producers. However, farmers are still looking through the forms of the social economy to strengthen their position in society and the market. This is why the strengthening and expansion of healthy and strong cooperative production and processing schemes, as well as the development of alternative distribution and trade systems, are a key lever of productive reconstruction and rural development, while at the same time a process of degradation of the neoliberal model of production, which is anachronistic. The arrangements provided for in this Legislation on democratic participation and the establishment of compulsory disposal through the cooperatives of the largest volume of their members' products are key elements in the efforts to restructure and regenerate agricultural cooperatives. Furthermore, in order to avoid pathogens that have been developed in the past, an important role will be played by strengthening the control and supervisory role of the National Register of Agricultural Cooperatives. It is important to abolish cooperatives - seals, to clear registers of members of active cooperatives, but also to regulate their debts, after auditing and management. Legislation, therefore, with a view to strengthening the role of the farmer - producer in the value chain of the product he produces - I consider it of paramount importance and the proposed amendment to the producer markets. This is a market structure that strengthens the producer-consumer-intermediate relationship and stimulates local production and local consumption. This is an aspect of the market, which previous governments have stubbornly refused to regulate, obviously serving as an entrepreneur from those of farmers and consumers. Colleagues and colleagues, in our country today, operate 50 producer markets, the markets of the farmers, which involve at least five hundred rural families and serve tens of thousands of consumers. In fact, we are the only country in Europe that has such a large number of markets for bio-growers and that is an advantage that we need to highlight and exploit. I believe that these markets should be provided for in their own right. The establishment of the producer markets is an essential measure to restructure the current oligopolistic structure of the food market, as well as a lever for rural development and the country's productive reconstruction, with a view to protecting the nature and health of consumers. I would also like to point out, since I am a woman, that it is particularly important and symbolic that the provisions of the draft law on women's cooperatives are laid down. Strengthening the economic role of the rural woman through collaboration gives the necessary tools to upgrade her activity and continue actively supporting the rural family, contributing to family agricultural income, but also maintaining and highlighting the tradition of the place. Ladies and gentlemen, we need productive cooperatives present throughout the production process. We want cooperatives to interact with society and be part of it, but at the same time to be counterweighted by unreasonable competition. It is important, therefore, that we have the possibility of creating these economic conditions, which will enable small and medium-sized farmers to ensure their sustainability in the globalised economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Englishie. Mr. George Kasapidis has the floor. He is Parliament's fragrance. For those you don't know, when he comes down, ask him to tell you what I mean. Let us also make some advertising to Members of Parliament!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u148	Obviously, Mr President, you mean the cultivation of the roses we are doing in Kosani and starts in a week from now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u149	In the broadest sense, therefore, 'if we don't play our home...'. Let's play it a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u150	We must invest in such efforts and initiatives that unite and erase the gray from the landscape, which, unfortunately, has prevailed in the country in recent years. We hope that such initiatives will be based, which I hope will be the subject of another debate, ladies and gentlemen of the government. After all, we have asked for a discussion on development issues and prospects in the country and for us to be chaired by Mr Kaklamanis, because he supports these initiatives on his part, which are of real interest. There is also a real interest in the bill, which we are discussing, for cooperatives, since we are talking about an institutional structure for rural areas, which, in fact, gentlemen of the government, you have received in its bad hands. No one said it was the responsibility of the SYRIZA government over the 15 months for the bankruptcy of the cooperative movement. We have heard the Minister raise the tone, as if he does not have the authority to do that, which most of the colleagues in this Chamber, over time, are asking. So now it is an opportunity, with your own government - which you have promised, in the run-up to the election, to give the prosecutor's findings of monitoring within the PASPEGES, from 1994 onwards, for information to the House. We have asked for it on several occasions. And to be fair, this was an initiative launched by the Minister of the New Democracy, Mr Charakopoulos. I am delighted to see you as well, but we do not see results. Take it out in public, let people know what it was for, and the cooperative movement went bankrupt. However, we have also heard about other battles to be fought by the government, with regard to the 3 billion, the 100 million loans and the 500 million debt gifts and the other 3 billion debts. No one prevents you, gentlemen of the government, from getting to the point of view of this, which the Greek people are asking for. Electorally, the current Vice-President of the Government, Drasakis, has also committed himself to the corresponding control over the "sea-sea-savings" of 40 billion who are burdening the country's debt and are part of 50 billion of the banks' recapitalisation. And for that, no reason after the election. So the losers are the ones that are not given. And, unfortunately, this is the second battle that I have written to you now, which has been lost because you have not given it. With regard to the bill, I would like to highlight some ideological inconsistencies identified by a text reader, who brought us as a reform bill, which exalts and strengthens the cooperative movement. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, it does not agree with the spirit of the Left, with which you were struggling to support the non-preferential, farmers, small and medium-sized, unemployed, professionals and private entrepreneurs. Here, then, enter the institution of the optional portion, which is defined by law as having to give it privileges. Secondly, the optional share - held by a private or legal person - can also be a fund from abroad, which participates not in a transaction in the cooperative, but invests in the prospect of a cooperative - from the taxation of its interest, which is not the case for the normal shares of farmers. Interest is due from the cooperative surpluses, which is not entitled by the producer, except if the board of directors decides, and also if the holder of these optional shares is exempted from liability for debts to third parties, which is not the case for the main producers. This is where private capital is clearly favoured in relation to ordinary farmers, which is completely contrary to your ideology. But here, you probably overthrown it. And a second inconsistency of your ideological inconsistency is that while you have fought against flexible forms of work, Minister, with this bill you are introducing part-time work and part-time employment with a service card, in Article 48, for small businesses, which can hire workers with such contracts. So what is the Left's ideology to protect small and weak farmers? You are defenders of these interests, which you fought as opposition. Finally, you have not spoken, Minister, about the data currently existing in the agricultural sector. It erases, destroys the country's cow-food industry and you have not given a single battle in order to be able to secure this industry, which will literally disappear within the next two or three months. Here, no reason. And because you stressed it and stressed it again that you will fight the agricultural sector, I was sincerely afraid at some point. Because - I say - the battle you are going to fight will be like the one you were giving before the 2015 referendum? The measures, which you said, proposed by the creditors, for the purposes of harmonising the taxation of farmers with the free traders, to increase the rate of taxation from 13% to 26%, to increase the advance payment of the tax from 27% to 100%, to double the contributions of the OGA, to reduce and abolish the refund of the excise duty for farmers - which you then opposed as opposition - you came and voted as government. I only counted you five battles, which you either did not give or lost. So, Minister, it is better - as the wise Greek people say - that a great deal of talk do not eat! For all this and for what our rapporteur has pointed out in relation to interventionism and the government's desire to control some way and manipulate the cooperative movement, we are opposed to this initiative by the Government and we are committed to bringing as a government a purely liberal bill for cooperatives, which frees these healthy cooperative forces creatively for the benefit of our national economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u151	Close, Mr. Kasapidi.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u153	Mr President, please, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u154	Wait a minute. We will close with your own intervention, Minister. Mr. Kasapidis will remain in Athens. I won't let him go out to hear what you want to tell him. We're done with Mr. Papaliou and Mr. Yoyakas. And because my friend Mr. Papadopoulos is worried, we start tomorrow morning at 12 noon with Mr. Arahovitis, Mr. Papadopoulos, Mr. Zaybek, Mr. Manios and Mr. Karasmanis. I'm telling the first five.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u155	You know, Mr President, because I have a problem tomorrow, or if I get five people back or today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u156	We can make the change tomorrow and go after 13:00. Don't worry, all right. Mr. Papaliou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u157	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, from the Members of the New Democracy and PASOK and what we have not heard this evening. We have heard about Soviet-type arrangements, we have heard about North Korea and of course what they are not - as they said - left. They have not, however, told us what they are themselves and what they are proposing. They did not propose anything and, unfortunately, for them what it is, it is reflected in their works and their days and in the situation that they inherited us in 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, the time-consuming problems of the primary sector in our country are well known. In recent years, however, a number of factors have contributed to further weakening the agricultural sector and by extension of cooperative organisations. In particular, the most important factors are the globalisation of markets and the ruthless competition, the commitment of the country to the CFP initially and the new CFP below, which, unfortunately, operate unequally for the products of the South and, more recently, the neoliberal choices with indicative parameters to increase the cost of production of Greek agricultural products, the reduction of incomes and the lack of liquidity. At this point, it should be stressed that there has been a catastrophic abolition, divestment, the sale of ATE. Other important factors which have contributed to the deterioration of the situation in the agricultural sector are the dependence of cooperatives on the revenues generated by the management of subsidies, the lack of sales networks resulting in a significant fall in sales, the generally misassessment of markets, the mismanagement and an inadequate administrative organisation and the lack of training and training of cooperative staff and their management bodies and, of course, the mismanagement of cooperatives in general. In our country, despite the passions of the agricultural sector, this remains of primary importance and is considered the main sector that can ensure the country's exit from the crisis by serving food security and the development of the national economy. It is a key area of development combined with others, in particular processing, so that agricultural products are given added value and export orientation and, of course, tourism. All these sectors can transform the Greek economy from postoperative to production. In addition, targeted incentives and therefore investment in the primary sector can stimulate the development of the Greek region, job creation and the fight against social inequalities. In this context, agricultural cooperatives, which are a lever for the development of small and medium-sized farmers and a stronger negotiating force, can contribute to increasing and fairer distribution of agricultural income. The draft is part of a series of government legislative initiatives aimed at returning the country to sustainable development. In particular, it is an attempt to restructure and reconstruct the agricultural cooperative movement as a means of reconstructing and developing the dynamics of the agricultural sector, based on a number of principles such as: the constitutionally established principle of the cooperative, through which equality is guaranteed, which must exist between the members of the agricultural cooperatives and which is expressed as a proportion between members, share and vote. It is also based on a series of evaluation guidelines, which are compatible and adapted to the Greek reality, voluntary and free participation, democratic administration, so that all members are free to enter into agreements with third parties and develop a development strategy without relying on subsidies and privileges, information, education and training, so that all members, farmers and rural women can make an effective contribution to the proper functioning of the cooperatives, to cooperation between cooperatives in order to strengthen them and finally to interest in the community, which means cooperation with the local communities to which they must invest economic and socially. This bill, ladies and gentlemen, seeks to reverse the current situation of agricultural cooperatives, which are devalued economic and social. It brings together all the legislation, maintains effective regulations while introducing new regulations for the proper functioning of cooperatives from now on. For example, the abolition of the structure and structure of the cooperative movement and instead the creation of levels that correspond to the current data and current needs. These are linked to the globalised environment and the functioning of the rural economy, which impose other forms of organisation and operation of the cooperative movement. In this context inter-branch organisations, rural partnerships, sectoral national agricultural cooperatives, agri-food partnerships at regional level.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u158	Mr. Comrade, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u159	... producer groups, protection and management groups of products or foodstuffs with a protected designation of origin, with a protected geographical indication or other products, which incorporate the guarantee of traditional specialities and of women's cooperatives. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is an important link in the chain of the government's legislative initiatives towards the institutional reconstruction of the country, which together with the socially just productive reconstruction has been announced and implemented by the government - step by step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u160	We are closing with Mr Vassiliou Yoyaka as far as colleagues are concerned. The meeting will be closed with a short speech - a reply from the Minister. Mr. Yoyakas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u161	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the problems facing the rural world are really, really, they are explosive. There's no doubt about that. That was what the Prime Minister said a few weeks ago during the peak of agricultural mobilisation. But the question is. What does the government do to solve these problems? What's he doing to breathe the farmers' income? What does it do to reduce the cost of agricultural production, which makes agricultural employment inconsistent and leads to the abandonment of agriculture? In order for a rural cooperative to be productive and rewarding, at least two conditions are needed. One is to allow it to function freely from State intervention and the other to be treated by the State as an undertaking. This means more opportunities for self-financing, respect for administrative autonomy, more cooperation at local, regional and national level, which will enable costs to be reduced, to be invested and to improve the competitiveness of agricultural products. Unfortunately, this approach does not exist here. One would say that once again the government shows its suspicion, if not its disobedience, to private initiative and entrepreneurship. It treats agricultural cooperatives at best as bodies of the social economy and at worst as a political motto. This perception is reflected in various parts of the bill. Why should a rural cooperative be set up by at least thirty members, when in many countries of the European Union - such as Italy, Spain, Denmark and Belgium - the minimum number is between three and five? Obviously we want cooperatives with many members. But this will arise, because the members themselves have realised that their union means power, not because the law imposes it on them. Why are those members of administrative and supervisory boards stopping over two consecutive terms? Speaking of state intervention, there is also an international patent. Cooperatives are required to register in the relevant register to submit an operational plan for three years. On what criteria? How is the confidentiality of the plan guaranteed against competition? Are those who are already in the register going to submit a plan or not? What flexible framework does the government speak of when it is required for agricultural cooperatives to absorb 80% of each member's production? Let each cooperative choose whether to provide for it in its statute. Less cooperation ultimately means fewer possibilities for penetrating cooperatives in retail trade. In the wrong direction, too, the abolition of additional compulsory shares is also moving. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear from the above that our farmers unfortunately do not have much to hope for in this legislation. Also in our region, Mr Minister, we have a number of problems with milk, with farmers, which has already emerged from both our selective colleague and many of our SYRIZA colleagues, the co-government. The bill therefore leaves many of the major problems of the cooperative movement apart. They are problems that keep their development potential down. There is no solution to the demand from cooperative organisations, to exploit the mortgages and the productive properties that had passed in the hands of the Agricultural Bank. It does not deal with the uncontrolled oligopoly on the agricultural supply market and the unbearable cost of feedingstuffs carrying out the cost of production. Unfair practices are not treated in the supply chain of foods that inflate retail prices, nor frustration in food or the Greekisation of agricultural products. There is no incentive for the cooperative to use the residues of agricultural holdings in order to produce ‘green’ biomass energy, which may be another source of revenue. In short, it is confirmed that the government cannot give hope to the rural world, who has realised that despite the Prime Minister's prediction the resurrection of the Greek economy will not come along with this year's Easter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u162	Before I give the floor to the Minister, in order to avoid any problem, I will tell you that the Bureau has accepted Mr Papadopoulos' request tomorrow that his name should not be given in accordance with the order which he is second, because of personal impediment, but when he returns to Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u163	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u164	The Minister has the floor for two minutes to answer Mr. Kasapidis. Don't "light any fire" me, I tell you in advance, to be explained.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u165	It's not my intention. I just want to say to Mr Kasapidis that the files concerning PASPEGES existed in the Ministry of Agriculture and in the Government of New Democracy. You could have asked them. At this point they are already in the hands of justice, and as you can see, they have now taken a certain path. Justice itself manages these files. We're waiting. The second thing I want to say is that you're talking about fighting...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u166	This does not, however, prevent a request for documents to be sent to them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u167	I didn't say...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u168	I say so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u169	I didn't say I didn't give, just let him know where he is...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u170	That's why I made up for it. I didn't say you said you weren't giving. We both understood as old.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u171	I understand, Mr President, and I know where I am going. The second thing I want to say about the battles is that we have a difference, Mr Kasapidis. You follow us, bearing in mind that 'they will not fail', because you are simply aware of the fact that you did not fight for too many issues, while we are fighting, even if there is something to gain, and you know that there is no Council of Ministers that does not come up with an issue of our own that we are shouting. It does not mean that we will win everything, because you have created us a situation like this from previous years, which you realise you have already set the outcome. But hope is dying lately, and we will fight until then.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u172	Mr President, I request the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u173	Wait a minute, Mr. Kasapidis, and we're closing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u174	For a minute, Mr President, and thank you. On the first point raised by the Minister, I had asked your predecessor, Mr Tsataris, as the President said, for a request for documents...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u175	I can assure you that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u176	...which you have received, but I've been waiting for a year. I have also asked you two months ago a question about the animal disease anticipation, which has affected the whole country, and for a month and a half, you are not answering us, Minister. As regards the battles you have fought, you will either give or win, last year you gave the battle battle, as you said, which, if they were to pass those measures, would be the gravestone of agriculture. You came and introduced them all fifteen. So we don't oppose you,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u177	All right, don't do a second placement now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u178	...you're playing alone on the field and you're playing autogol!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u179	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u180	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u181	Minister, we're not taking it now, Ping Pong. You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u182	Only for these battles last year, wait now when the tax and insurance bill comes and you'll see how much the rural area has won.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u183	Well, what can we expect? We saw it, it's posted. What should we wait for? More to wait? Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your cooperation and the rest for the help. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-20-S2-commons.u184	With the consent of the House at 22.34' the meeting for tomorrow, Thursday, 21 April 2016 at 9.30' on the subject of Parliament's work: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent debate and (b) legislative work, continuation of the debate and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: "Agricultural cooperatives, forms of collective organisation of rural areas and other provisions".
