ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-12-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I wish we had a good year. Before entering the agenda, I would like to make a few announcements briefly on the grounds. The following letter came from the Deputy Secretary-General of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group: 'Honourable Mr President, As you are well aware, on Sunday, January 10, 2016 New Democracy elected its new President, according to its Statute. The President of the Party was elected directly by MP II of Athens Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis. I would ask you to make this letter to the House.' That's what we did.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-12-S1-commons.u2	Other announcement: The Standing Committee on Social Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: "Definition of a revised European Social Charter". And the last announcement. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and with Mr v. 3126/2003 "Prime responsibility of the Ministers", as in force, in the 8-1-2016 criminal court proceedings concerning the former Foreign Minister George Papandreou and former State Secretary for Foreign Affairs Mr Andreas Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-12-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: "Furtherance of the Agreement between the Government of the Russian Federation and the Government of the Hellenic Republic on the procurement of Defence Materials". The bill has already been passed in the Standing Committee by a majority. It is introduced to the House in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of this agreement. So does a colleague want to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-12-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-12-S1-commons.u5	Mr Pafilis from the JRC, who, if I am not mistaken, had voted in committee for 'the present'?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-12-S1-commons.u6	Yes, 'present'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-12-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Palphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-12-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, we want to explain why we are voting 'present', starting with an agreement on military equipment between the Hellenic Republic and the Russian Federation. We want to put our objections to the general framework, which is being carried out by the armaments, which are also defined by the defensive dogma of the Armed Forces, from their mission and, above all, by the alliances in which Greece, namely NATO and the European Union are joining, and the commitments resulting from them. No one can seriously argue that there are no commitments in the armaments sector, in addition to all others, from NATO mainly, and secondly from the European Union and obligations of our country. That is why, because there is, in general, a claim that it is possible for a NATO member country to have the possibility of an independent policy on the use of the Armed Forces and on equipment, we say that this is a myth. Once it is part of an alliance with such strict commitments that exist - and I can say too many examples - you cannot have an independent policy nor the doctrine of the Armed Forces yet. For example, 40% of the Armed Forces must be at NATO's disposal. I'll see you in the next bill. 8% must be immediately ready for use and use in the interventions and wars that NATO is launching. The same happens with the equipment. In addition, to enter some additional details, the requirements of the alliance for co-operation and synchronisation in exercises with the other partners are known. It is also known - and I do not want to say examples - that there are many times coercion in countries - and in our country - to obtain weapon systems, which mainly meet the needs of NATO alone or only the needs of national defence equipment, as they are called. This also applies to this agreement. And if someone says "you know, we take from a country that is not a member of NATO", that's not true, because most systems - the weapons, not all or perhaps the most important ones - are codified by NATO and can generally cooperate in harmony with NATO's own weapons systems. We are therefore saying that the systems ordered do not cover national or only national needs, but mainly cover or cover up, and - as anyone wants to do - naval and Euro-Union needs. With this in mind, therefore, in the wider political context and not with the agreement, which has no particular problems, in addition to some of them, which are not important, we cannot vote for it and vote 'at present'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-12-S1-commons.u9	Minister, would you like to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-12-S1-commons.u10	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-12-S1-commons.u11	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-12-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I listened carefully to the objections on the part of the rapporteur of the Communist Party of Greece. I would like to assure you, Mr Pafile, but also all my fellow Members that the equipment needs that exist are described by the Staff. You're right. Previously, there were times when armament needs were not described by the Staff, but by whether the representatives had close relations with the ministers concerned, armaments managers or related persons. That is why nineteen cases of armaments are now in justice. This has stopped. Now I can assure you all and ask the House for control. I call on all of you to attend the Ministry of National Defence - and the Arms Committee and the Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs and also individual colleagues - to come to us on any matter involving equipment or the operation of the Ministry of National Defence and to be informed. We let the Staff choose. After choosing the Staff, then the process comes to the Greek Parliament, to the Committee on Armaments, where the military leadership is the one, which answers Members' questions. I would like to tell you that from the files that we opened in the General Secretariat for Equipment, it is true that, unfortunately, the letter of guarantee lacked in them. These cases went to justice. In most cases the compensatory benefits not only had not been realised, but most of them were so grey, which led to justice in conclusions and a reference to political leaders - which is now also requested by a document from the Ministry of Justice from the Ministry of Justice, by the prosecutor of corruption - but at the same time they also created clear relationships for the payment of commissions. This time is over. This agreement, which we are bringing today, is an agreement that we did not sign. Signed by Mr Avramopoulos as Minister of National Defence. It is the solution to this phenomenon, which we have seen in the past. Transnational agreements. Transnational agreement with the United States, transnational agreement with Russia. Transnational agreements with other countries. And here I would like to tell you that the issue of procurement has to do with the development of our defence industry, with the first of the state industries: the Hellenic Defence Systems, EAB and those industries, which, unfortunately, with the policy of previous governments, were closed down and could be productive, such as the Epirus Industry, the Thessaloniki Vehicle Industry. The policy, which we have drawn up, is now to represent the Greek defence industries at every visit of the political leadership - whether mine or Mr Vitsa - abroad and, at the same time, with us being the SKEY, that is, private Greek defence industries. I would like to assure you that, in the last four - five trips, which have been made - with the last one in India - very serious agreements have been signed which help to develop both the public and the private defence industry. Greece now plays a very important role. You said about the role in NATO. I will tell you that we are not committed by NATO to materials that come from non-NATO countries. Most air defense systems come from Russia: S -300, TOR - M1.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-12-S1-commons.u13	They're coded by NATO. They're working together.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-12-S1-commons.u14	No, it's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-12-S1-commons.u15	Bring us evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-12-S1-commons.u16	They're not coded by NATO. They are autonomous systems for which we control the source codes. It is true that they are protecting, of course, because we are members of the alliance, and allied installations. So the S-300s shouldn't cover Souda's defense? If tomorrow they hit Souda, the non-genus, they're gonna hit her, because it's the base of NATO? A Greek base will strike. A Greek place will strike. So S -300, they create this umbrella and cover Souda and as a Greek territory and as an ally base, without meaning that the control of these media has NATO. And when we ask for an exemption from the embargo...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-12-S1-commons.u17	Souda's beating!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-12-S1-commons.u18	You're welcome. I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-12-S1-commons.u19	Souda has been hitting all wars so far. No one's hitting her.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-12-S1-commons.u20	Souda informs you that at the moment it is covered by S-300, which is a non-Natural weapon controlled by the Greek Armed Forces. And that explains to our allies in NATO and the European Union that Greece, having to operate with different systems, has in its possession and systems, which are indeed part of the country's defence, but at the same time offer services to allied installations without having interdependence. At this point I will tell you that Greece, having a very important geopolitical position, particularly in the South-East Mediterranean, on armaments issues, is entering into agreements with third countries such as Israel, such as Egypt, such as Arab Emirates. I'll be in Jordan tomorrow. And Greece has an opportunity, which gives it the right, as a NATO member country, to make co-productions with countries outside NATO, giving the certification of a European Union and NATO country and product. So I can make it to you more lyrics. If tomorrow - first God - we agree to India's offer for "ARTEMIS", where Greece will give the firearm, give the barrel, and create a system along with the Indian steering system, which we will co-operate here in the Greek Defence Systems, this weapon system will have the certification of both the European Union and NATO. And that is the great thing that third countries want cooperation, particularly with the state defence industry. I therefore believe that, in these matters, this very abadiz that we have to be a member of both the European Union and NATO and, at the same time, maintain serious and consistent relations with countries outside NATO, enables us to develop our defence systems. I would like to tell you that there is a great deal of effort now to make available very large quantities of ammunition, which are not used, paid by the Greek people and found in the warehouses of the Greek Armed Forces, despite the fact that many of them - most of them - have expired to 45% or 50% of their value. We've already been in contests. We have already been sold - and that is where we cover large gaps in the Ministry of Defence's budget - in Arab Emirates aircraft missiles which expired in 2015. We are now moving on with Egypt to give hundreds of old tanks, the BMP -1, which the Greek Armed Forces and the Greek Army no longer use, and at the same time to give ELVO work for another hundred, which will result in seventy-two new ones being given to Egypt. For submarines - to produce submarines in the Greek shipyards Scaramaga, which is being handled, I remind you, at the moment, the Greek Navy - have shown interest in India, Poland, Egypt and other countries. So in this great effort, which is a national effort, I ask all my fellow Members to cooperate. We are prepared to inform you of all this and, at the same time, to conclude with these cases, which each armaments system was hiding and a secret. Transnational agreements, full transparency for involvement in all the Court of Auditors' conventions, and at the same time, most of all, the control of the House and the Committee on Arms, which can also be accessed as a political leadership with Mr Vitsa at the Ministry of National Defence of each Member and every party to have access to this information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-12-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: "Following the Agreement between the Government of the Russian Federation and the Government of the Hellenic Republic on the procurement of Defence Materials". Asked by this House: Can the bill be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-12-S1-commons.u22	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-12-S1-commons.u23	Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of National Defence: ‘Consolidation of the Agreement between the Government of the Russian Federation and the Government of the Hellenic Republic on the procurement of Defence Material’ was accepted, in a single debate, in principle, in writing and by a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-12-S1-commons.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-12-S1-commons.u25	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Wednesday 4 November 2015 (morning and afternoon), Friday 6 November 2015, Monday 9 November 2015, Wednesday 11 November 2015, Thursday 12 November 2015, Friday 13 November 2015, Monday 16 November 2015, and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-12-S1-commons.u26	The minutes of Wednesday 4 November 2015 (morning and afternoon), Friday 6 November 2015, Monday 9 November 2015, Wednesday 11 November 2015, Thursday 12 November 2015, Friday 13 November 2015 and Monday 16 November 2015 were validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-12-S1-commons.u27	With the consent of the House at 18.36 hours the sitting on Thursday, 14 January 2016 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: topical questions.
