ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-19-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION REQUESTS FOR APPROVAL OF BULGARIA Discussion and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament, Mr Alexandros Meikopoulou, Mr Ioannis Dedes and Mr Ioannis Sahinidis. The competent Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced its report of 12 April 2016 that the members of the Committee proposed by a majority that Mr Alexandros Mikopoulou's immunity should not be waived. The relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced its report of 12 April 2016, according to which the members of the Committee unanimously proposed the waiver of Mr Ioannis Dedes’ immunity. The relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced its report of 12 April 2016, according to which the members of the Committee unanimously proposed to waive the immunity of Mr Ioannis Sahinidis. Under Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, the House does not enter the substance of the cases, but only investigates whether the act in respect of which the waiver of immunity is sought is linked to the Members' political or parliamentary activity, to prosecution or to prosecution or to prosecution, or to action, conceals political feasibility. In accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, Parliament shall also decide on an increase in the hand or on the request of the Prosecutor in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 108(1)(b). The floor shall always be given, on request, to the Member to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates. I would remind you that, in accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents of 23 March 2005, we have agreed on applications for waiver of immunity that the House should decide by roll-call vote. The vote, in which each colleague lists his name, his constituency and the parliamentary group, to which he belongs, will be registered in the respective Minutes. We are responding to the provisions of Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, which requires a clear vote. After the debate on the cases of today's special agenda is concluded, we shall proceed to a roll-call vote, as I have described. The first case concerns Mr Alexandros Meikoulou. The second case concerns Mr Ioannis Dedes. The third case concerns Mr Ioannis Sahinidis. Is there a colleague on the first request asking for the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure? Nobody. Is there a colleague on the second request asking for the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-19-S1-commons.u2	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-19-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Deed, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-19-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-19-S1-commons.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, there is no immunity for the mob!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-19-S1-commons.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, while I was a director at the CSD hospital, I had to submit the first of these statements to the Prosecutor's office. Therefore, either because of poor or poor information from the hospital administration at the time and on how, but also as regards the place of submission, I put my statement, myself and my wife, my family's assets, namely, and sent it to the Athenian Prosecutor, as mentioned in the referral from the hospital administration. After a year and a few months, I was asked by the prosecutor to apologize, because I did not submit a statement last year 'from now on'. I directed directly to the prosecutor at the address I had sent the statement 'from where you were,' and they said: 'Sir, not here. You will go to Piraeus 207, where the Service of the Criminal Corps is in charge of Economic Crime." However, I submitted the copy of the declaration at the time, which I submitted by post and went to the audience. The debate and the attempts to apologize to the audience have, of course, been postponed twice. Since then I have become a Member of Parliament, and now I am referred back to committee. But because it is not a political matter, I would ask that my immunity should not be lifted, Mr President. This, of course, is a matter for Members to decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-19-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Deed. Is there any colleague requesting the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure? Nobody. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on applications for waiver of immunity is adjourned. There will be a roll-call vote. A list has been drawn up with the names of colleagues for whom the waiver of immunity is sought. Every colleague will vote next to the Members' names on whom the waiver of immunity is sought. Any colleague who votes in favour of waiver of immunity takes note of his preference next to the Member's name and to the column 'NAI', that is, to say, to the prosecutor's request for the waiver of immunity. Any colleague who votes against the waiver of immunity takes note next to the Member's name and to the 'OHIM' column respectively. Any colleague who votes for the 'PPROVAL' takes note of it in the corresponding section of the vote. Each Member will put his name, his constituency and the parliamentary group to which he belongs and will sign it, because the vote is rolled out in accordance with Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure. Then, with his name on the list of colleagues, he will give the ballot to colleagues. Georgios Psychogios from SYRIZA and Apostolos Vesiropoulos from New Democracy, who will monograph it and announce that the MP voted. After the end of the vote, the votes will be counted by the Members I mentioned, as will be the result of the ballots, which will be recorded together with the voting protocol in the Minutes of today's sitting. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-19-S1-commons.u8	The House has agreed. I would like to inform you that letters or fax numbers have been sent to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70A of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, in which they give us their vote. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament are invited on the list. Anastasia Gara from SYRIZA and Ioannis Kefaloyannis from New Democracy. Until the Members arrive, I have two communications to this House. The Standing Committee on Production and Trade submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food 'Agrarian cooperatives, forms of collective organisation of the rural area and other provisions'. The Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice also submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior and Administrative Reconstruction of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic, the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on the establishment and operation of a Joint Contact Centre for Police and Customs Cooperation. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-19-S1-commons.u9	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-19-S1-commons.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters by colleagues, Mr Alexios Tsipras, Mr Georgios Stathakis, Mr Mustafa Mustafa, Mr Georgiou Panjas, Mr Andreas Michalidis, Mr Ioannis Drasakis, Mr Panagiotis Skourletis and Mr Gerasios Balaura have been sent to the Bureau. These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not taken into account in the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-19-S1-commons.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-one students and three educational sessions from the High School of Chania Crete. We welcome them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned, and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-19-S1-commons.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of a roll-call vote on the request for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament. A total of 189 Members voted. In favour of the waiver of immunity of Mr Alexandros Meikopoulou, namely 'NAH', they voted 12 MPs. Against the waiver of immunity, i.e. 'NO', they voted 176 MPs. Vote "PARTS" 1 Member. The request of the public prosecutor was therefore not accepted. In favour of the waiver of immunity of Mr Ioannis Dede, namely 'NAH', they voted for 79 MPs. Against the lifting of immunity, namely 'OH', they voted 107 MPs. They voted for 3 MPs. The request of the public prosecutor was therefore not accepted. In support of the waiver of immunity of Mr Ioannis Sahinidis, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 183 MPs. Against the waiver of immunity, i.e. 'OH', they voted 4 MPs. They voted 'WHITE' 2 Members. The request of the Public Prosecutor was therefore accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-19-S1-commons.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Thursday 11 February 2016 and Friday 19 February 2016 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-19-S1-commons.u14	The minutes of Thursday 11 February 2016 and Friday 19 February 2016 were therefore validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-19-S1-commons.u15	With the consent of the House at the time of 19.20' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday, 20 April 2016 at 10.00, on the subject of the House's work: a pre-dated debate, in accordance with Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, at the initiative of the Chief of Officerial Representation and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, at the level of party leaders, on the security of citizens, in accordance with the special agenda distributed.
