ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to announce to the House the issue of Thursday 28 January 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Laris of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Anna Vageias to the Minister of Environment and Energy on the protection of the forest of Saints Theodoros in the local community of Rapsanis, a municipality of Lower Olympia of the Municipality of Tempus. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under No 439/25-1-2016, a topical question by MP II Athens of New Democracy Mrs.Akaterini Papakostas - Ironropoulou to the Minister of Finance regarding the implementation of the decision 2194/2014 of the Board of Directors. to re-establish the remuneration of Armed Forces officials. 3. The question by No. 435/22-1-2016 of the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Pappas to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the "private of Thrace Muslims in notices of recruitment of health personnel of the Ministry of Health". 4. The question by number 434/22-1-2016 of the F' Vice-President of the Parliament and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Health, concerning the problems of working the Cardiological Clinic of the Rhodes Hospital. 5. The question asked by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the closure of the "SOFTEX" plant in Botanic. 6. The question by No 429/19-1-2016 of the Athens MP, Mr. Theocharis Theocharis, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the resolution of the "SAPIS" Group's problem and the determination of the time schedule for the payment of the compensation to the beneficiaries. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos asked the Minister of State about the validity of the polls. 8. Under number 431/21-1-2016, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Association of Centres Mr.Theodoras Megalonikou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the recognition of three thousand degrees from Greek colleges and universities abroad. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy regarding the immediate treatment of the arbitrary issue and the lifting of the hostage policy of the owners of arbitrary buildings. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 440/25-1-2016 of the Member of the State of New Democracy, Mr Dimitrios Stamatis, to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, concerning the abolition of barren air services. 3. The question by No 436/22-1-2016 of the Member of Parliament of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism about the "explained and unjustified increases in fuel prices for Greek consumers". 4. The question by number 433/22-1-2016 of the Member of the Democratic Incorporation PASOK - DIMAR Mr Michael Jeleigh to the Minister for Rural Development and Food regarding the eligibility conditions of the beneficiaries of the associated rice aid. 5. The Question No 432/22-1-2016 by the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism on the deadline for updating the files of outstanding applications of borrowers in accordance with No. 3869/2010 and the time limit for the provision of the detailed payment statements. 6. The 349/5-1-2016 topical question by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of Health, on the "private of Thrace Muslims in notices of recruitment of health personnel of the Ministry of Health". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 408/18-1-2016 by MP Arcadia of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR. Mr. Olysseus Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the progress of the projects to make use of the former airport of Greece. 8. The 374/11-1-2016 topical question by MP Argolidis of the Democratic Association of PASOK. - Mr Ioannis Manniatis, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the implementation of the provision of nr. 4162/2013 on the establishment of the EGF (National Social Solidarity Account). 9. The question asked by MP Magnesia of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Konstantinos Steerios to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the problems of workers in ContiTech IMAS S.A. in the First Industrial Area (BIPE) Volos. 10. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the immediate reopening of the recycling plant in Heraklion Crete and the reintegration of workers from WASTE SOLUTIONS. 11. The question by No. 409/18-1-2016 of the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks, Mr. Vassilis Kokkalis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the need to maintain the PPC sub-office in Tyrnavos, Larissa. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Council Directive 2011/99/EU of 13 December 2011 on the European Protection Order, Council Decision 2009/315/JHA of 26 February 2009 on the organisation and content of the exchange of information from the criminal register between Member States, and Council Decision 2009/316/JHA of 6 April 2009 establishing the European System of Information on Criminal Register (ECRIS) pursuant to Article 11 of Framework Decision 2009/315/JHA. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting of 25 January 2016 to discuss this draft law at a meeting. I therefore propose that the draft law be debated in a uniform manner. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u2	The House unanimously agreed. Before giving the Minister the floor, I would like to say that two amendments tabled by the Minister have already been distributed to the parliamentary groups. It is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since they have previously participated in the educational programme "1974: The restoration of democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-seven students and students and four teachers attendants from the 2nd General High School of Amarousi. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Also, as Parliamentary Representatives, SYRIZA was appointed by Mr.Femelos, from New Democracy, from Golden Dawn, from the Pappas, from the Democratic Assent of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Theocharopoulos, from the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Karathanasopoulos, from Potami Mr. Theocharis, from the Annells Mr. Papachristopoulos and from the Centroon Association Mr. Karras. The Minister has the floor, Mr Paradulopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today the main subject of the debate in plenary is the incorporation of a directive, a decision and a framework decision concerning, as you know from the discussions in the committee, the establishment of a European protection warrant, as well as cooperation with an exchange of information on the criminal record of the Contracting States. In short, I would remind you of the basic content of the directives and decisions. I would remind you of exactly what the legal corrections were, which were the result of the debate here. I would like to inform you of two amendments which have already been tabled and which will be supported today for the first time as late. One of them is mine. The other will be supported by Mr Stathakis. I would therefore remind you that the first directive concerns the European protection order for citizens who enjoy this protection under measures imposed by the criminal court in case they are to be moved to another European country. Of course, the measure is mutual. It may be citizens who move from our country to other European countries or the other way around. I would remind you that a protection warrant is not established on the basis of this directive, nor is there any procedural legislation in Greece. But there are cases in our legislation where, in imposing restrictive conditions during the proceedings or in dismissal on terms after the sentence, conditions can be imposed on the defendant or convicted who are relevant to the protection of the victim of his actions and usually include avoiding any harassment or even contact at a distance which may be dangerous at the expense of the perpetrator, who has the relevant obligation. These are already provided for in our legislation under general conditions and conditions of dismissal. If they are imposed and are to move the protected citizen to another country, then the European arrest warrant will be issued to accompany this obligation to another country, and vice versa can happen if the move takes place to our country. As you know, the Directive lays down detailed rules for the implementation, acceptance, the institutions issuing the relevant warrant, either in one case or in another. I think it has been explained in detail that they also include the restrictive nature of the measures and also the more specific ways in which they can be taken. Decisions subsequently concern authorisations for the exchange of information on the criminal record, called the ECRIS. It is also a legislation which facilitates the existence of information exchange mechanisms. This is a text in which, in the debate that has taken place here quite thoroughly, some legislative improvements have been made thanks to the contribution of Members. The legislative improvements made are the ones concerning the prosecutor to whom the application for a European arrest warrant is sought or rejected. We have predicted a legislative improvement that if the request for a European arrest warrant is rejected, then the person responsible for judging will be the prosecutor, who is to a degree higher than the one who issued the European arrest warrant, i.e. the prosecutor of the Ice Bay of Appeal, depending on the step in which the body which they rejected. In some other cases we have specifically defined the details, which should be mentioned in the European Arrest Warrant. With regard to the correlation in the list - which has been established - of crimes provided by Greek criminal law with the criminal law of other countries, we have tried to make the provision of a little more flexible, providing that not only in rare and exceptional cases, but in general also in specific cases, when the characterisation of the crime is not entirely consistent with that of the Criminal Law of other countries, then a correction can be made to ensure that it is clear. Finally, following these legislative improvements, which have already been signed and submitted, we have proceeded on the basis of these comments and discussed in one or two others, those which have clarified what the draft law means, drawn up on the basis of the directive, when it comes to and in cases where the information can be used. I am referring to the framework decision, which concerns the criminal record and other purposes. There has been an observation that this is vague and that the other aims should now relate to the administrative and criminal proceedings, and an observation made at the end of the debate - by Mr Karras if I remember correctly - was the penalty imposed on the perpetrator, who would infringe the measure, which has also been imposed and covered by the European arrest warrant. The debate here concerned the possible application of Article 182 of the Criminal Code, which in these cases provides for a sentence of up to six months, or is the choice of another provision, which could be malicious. The regulation that I am proposing to you at the moment is to reach an interim solution, not to refer to a specific other article, to state that if there is a breach of the specific conditions and possibly a local approach to the victim, the penalty is up to two years, that is to say, more than the six months provided for in Article 182 until now in the plan, but not a felony. These are the arrangements which have all been put to your attention and which have been discussed. I am simply presenting the last of the legislative improvements, which I have just announced.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u4	Two amendments have been tabled, one of which has been tabled by me, and I would like to put them to you and to talk about their content. Of course, they are being tabled late and I understand that procedurally this is a problem. However, I will try to explain their content and convince you that I believe that this is a piece of legislation, which is an amendment that is technical and does not create any particular problems at the moment. This is, therefore, an amendment which proposes reforms in Article 7a of Law 2882/2001, namely the Code of Forced Properties of Real Estate. This legislation, of course, has been in existence since 2001, and this provision, Article 7a, stipulates that in the event of major projects, then it is possible to follow a specific process of shorter expropriations, which has the only following changes, in relation to the legislation that has been in force so far: It is foreseen that the court responsible for their enforcement is the only appeal, instead of the three-member court, which has been foreseen until now, because there is, in practice, a difficulty in finding a court in certain areas of the country, known as the three-member court. There is a shortening of the time limits involved and a ban on postponement to the first debate. I would remind you that the regulation of Article 7a provides for the possibility of temporary expropriation of immovable property without awaiting the procedure for determining the compensation which may be followed later. This was already provided for by Mr von Wogau. 2882. What is added, therefore, is the change of the competent court, some acceleration of the time-limits for additional parties and the inability to postpone, which also has a substantial reason. This lies in the fact that in these trials the parties are usually many in number, numerous in number. A health problem, for example, may arise from a party or a lawyer, a legal representative - and that is the rule - and if there is no such ban on deferral, then it is possible to go too far. For the importance of this regulation, I would also like to remind you that speeding up the expropriation procedure is particularly important, so that our country in the major projects, which are part of this process, avoid paying criminal clauses, which are very high, as our country's experience has shown in previous major projects in the Olympics, etc. Then, for criminal clauses, up to EUR 400,000 had been paid. In our country and the need for large projects to be carried out quickly is great but also the economic weakness in paying criminal clauses in case of delay - due to expropriations - is very important. I therefore believe that there may be consensus on this issue, which is - as I have explained - technically and in detail and not on the whole conception of the institution, and that is why I support this amendment. The next amendment will be supported by Mr Stathakis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Minister. We are now entering the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, I would like to take the floor on the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u7	Mr Stathakis, you want to support the amendment. Please, the Minister for Economy, Development and Tourism has the floor, Mr Stathakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, an amendment has been tabled which seeks to do two things: On the basis of the recent meetings of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency and the public interest in the smooth operation and upgrading of the functioning of the Competition Committee, two essential things are proposed - and, of course, the recent communication from the Committee of Independent Authorities on how to administer the independent authorities, in particular the competition authorities - which have been void and which will strengthen and shield the administration and functioning of the Committee's institutional framework. The first issue concerns administration. The incompatibility, which is part of the recommendations, of the membership of the Competition Committee with political persons from Parliament or the Government and the European Parliament is being introduced here. As you will see in the layout, there is "up to a degree of affinity". I propose that "c degree" should be removed - I will bring about a legislative improvement - and that will become "a and b degree of affinity with persons who are members of the Greek Parliament, the European Parliament or the Government". Secondly, a age limit is introduced, seventy-three years for the President and seventy years for the other members. I'm going to disciplinary matters: The Competition Committee is the only Independent Authority, which has not incorporated what is in place in all other Independent Authorities, RAE, ETT, RAS, etc., as there was a presidential decree setting out the disciplinary framework of the Committee, which has been pending since 2011, has never been adopted. In fact, this is where the same disciplinary procedure is introduced to the other independent authorities, with particular care that the university professor involved in the disciplinary board should have specialisation in criminal law or in economic science, should not be directly involved in the process and the competition industry. The disciplinary procedures are the same. There is a change, but I shall withdraw, in order not to be considered to be more extensive changes. The mobilisation, activation of the disciplinary procedure so far, is made by the Ministerial Council to all the independent authorities. This is where the Minister can mobilize it. I'm withdrawing that. The Council of Ministers will do so, as will the other authorities. We shall now go to the second section, which concerns the immunity of the committee's functioning to the legal advisers it recruits. Here, there are some procedures for shielding the operation. Firstly, there is a maximum fee - in any case, it does not go beyond what is currently happening - the EUR 20,000. The incompatibility of the representation of the committee at the same time and the same company of the other party shall be introduced. Not to be, of course, a member of an anonymous company, a board of directors. Foreign lawyers should not take a case against the Commission for two years after the end of the case. There is a strong protection for commercial secrets, which are imported around - in a number of articles - as a Code of Conduct. The term of office of directors and heads of directors shall also be reduced from four to three years. These are the basic arrangements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, may I have the floor on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u11	You have a minute, Mr. Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, two amendments are being tabled at the moment. They were filed at 11.45 p.m. They are late amendments to the directive that we have today. And we see here - on the issue of the Committee on Competition, for example - substantial changes that have not been discussed in the committees to bring the amendment. They have not been discussed anywhere and we are now being called upon to study all this data. In fact, we are hearing from the Minister at the moment that he will bring about a legislative improvement and that he will withdraw a provision from his amendment at 11:45, which says that the Minister will do so and not the Ministerial Council. At 11: 45, it was not understood and is now withdrawn from the late amendment that came in this process. Please, it is not reasonable to legislate in this way. Take them back at the moment, so that they can be discussed properly and be able to present our views, because it is quite serious about how the competition authorities function and how the Competition Committee operates.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u13	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u14	Mrs. Tindemans, would you like to speak on this matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u15	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u16	Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'll agree. We are very surprised to see that an amendment is being tabled at the moment specifically for the Competition Committee. I will say that there are also some photographic devices in there, which will be discussed within a short time. It has absolutely nothing to do with the subject of the draft law which concerns the transposition of a European directive. It contains very substantial provisions for the functioning of the Competition Committee and therefore I do not understand why time cannot be allowed to go on to discuss them in the light of the procedures provided for in the Rules of Procedure of the House. After all, we also have Friday's part-session. Therefore, at least the minimum time could be given so that all parties can have time to study in depth the provisions you are proposing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Famelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. We must admit that we are particularly impressed by the strong reaction of the Parliamentary representatives and on the part of the Democratic Alliance and on the side of the New Democracy, which suggests that they are not present at the meetings of the Committee on Institutions and at the recent meeting we had here in Parliament, when the issue of our small brewers has dealt with us all very much. So there is a very serious issue that either we have to recognise or we will do what we do not know, and the whole market in our country is aware of it. We must ensure that the Competition Authority is independent, that we institutionally shield impartiality so that there is no complaint which affects the functioning of the Committee, that independent authority and the market, while at the same time ensuring free competition and the functioning of the institutions. We therefore believe that, as a result of the maturity of Parliament's procedures in itself, this amendment is coming. This amendment, contrary to the proposal put forward by Mrs Kerameos, does not have any photographic provisions but incorporates into national law provisions and legislation and the European framework, which gives us such directions. In practical terms - to say this on a point of order alone, because I will go into substance later - provisions that apply to other independent authorities are also applicable to the Competition Authority. And I ask: does anyone have anything to fear from the impartiality and independence of the Competition Committee? We think that this is for the benefit of the country and must be discussed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much. Mr Theocharis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Mr President. In fact, it is also a question of the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, who told us that he was cutting himself off to ensure competition. And it's about to fix competition at 11: 45, because at 12:00 we're voting! There's a limit to clandestineness! There's a limit to incapacity! We cannot introduce delayed amendments, which we withdraw two minutes after the Step of the House. This is a defect in Parliament! You cannot expect Members to work out, to read out amendments that will be voted on in fifteen minutes. All this is crocodile tears of SYRIZA. There is nothing to do with competition. These are impotences! We are sure that there are photographic devices and we will have to examine them thoroughly. We cannot consent to such a process that comes to the footsteps of the MDGs. You have made Samara's government look like a harmless lamb with the PPAs, with the late, with the overcrowding procedures... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] You'll hear them no matter how much you don't like them. ...and now with late ministerial amendments, which are withdrawn by the Minister himself. All these amendments must be withdrawn. Thank God, there are bills tomorrow, tomorrow - every day you also bring us a bill - where they can get into one of them so that there is time to be worked out by the Members of Parliament. The MPs are not government officials! Finally, the legislative authority must gain from the executive the due respect it deserves. Please retire immediately!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u22	Thank you. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. I will not dwell on the substance of the amendments tabled - not because we do not have an opinion, we have to look at them - but on the subject of the procedure. It is indeed unacceptable. This process of yacht - which our people say - emerged yesterday under the Greek Convention - Canada. An amendment to the composition of the PSE also came out of nowhere and the procedure had been initiated. Nowadays, the same thing! Where's this story going? In fact, since the Step of the House, the Minister is absolved of aspects which he put forward in the amendment. It's unacceptable! You've really taken the doggirl from the previous ones. What the previous ones have done, that is, exactly the same procedure is followed by the government here. We, at least, cannot accept it. We denounce it as an unacceptable procedure. As far as the substance of the amendments is concerned, we will take a position. We have a position for both the independent authorities and the Competition Committee, but we will see them more specifically and we will be placed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u25	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Kegeroglu, Mr. Theocharopoulos spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u27	Just a minute, Mr President, on a personal point.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u28	For personal? Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u29	Mr President, I asked for the floor on personal grounds because a few minutes ago Mr Famelos came and threatened me - I am sitting here - saying 'now we're going out, I will show you'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u30	Lies, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u31	So Mr Famelos, in the presence here of colleagues, said these words, stumbling and showing his true self. Please, Mr President, threats to this Chamber by Members who respect freedom of expression...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u32	The debate, Mr President. It seems that Mr Kegeroglou's ethics and ethics is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u33	First of all, I'm not finished, Mr. Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u34	It's not over, Mr. Femmelle, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u35	The government's subordinate MP in what the government says, regardless of whether it is by violating the Rules of Procedure or by any other rules - even those the party itself believes...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u36	Please, Mr. Kegeroglu, no designations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u37	It's a political designation. He's a government culprit.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u38	Hey, no! I would ask that we erase this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u39	No, Mr President, more must be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u40	Please, Mr. Famele, do not go on with the episode.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u41	No, Mr President, I will speak. It is a cowardly symbol of what Mr Kegeroglu is doing and I want the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u42	Please don't give this episode any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u43	No, Mr President, I would like the floor to recall in plenary.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u44	I have the impression...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u45	It will be recalled in plenary, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u46	I have the impression that you and Mr Kegeroglu must withdraw from each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u47	I didn't do anything, Mr. President. I shall mention exactly what I said, Mr President. I want to explain to withdraw.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u48	All right, we don't have to keep this episode going. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u49	In an inappropriate way, Mr Kegeroglu was put in a particularly insulting position, with an expression that I demand to withdraw within Parliament. He referred to the terminology 'little'. So I told him that we are going to go out to explain to me who is "little" because I will bring this back to the level of Members' ethics and to the Committee on Ethics. I would ask you, Mr President, to protect me because he has said so and is recorded in the Minutes. I demand he retires. I have no other issue with Mr Kegeroglu, because he does not honour the role of the Member.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u50	The designations must be withdrawn, on the one hand, for the decency of the Members themselves and of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u51	The "government subordinate" is when....
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u52	Ridiculous!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u53	Please! The matter is closed. Mr. Carras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u54	Yes, Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u55	Now if you lick, to become Minister, that's another matter. It's none of my business.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u56	So, that's how you became and you know how...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u57	Please! It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u58	It's none of my business.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u59	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u60	It's none of my business. He threatened me in front of everyone. Trumpoo!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u61	We're not going to fall to your level!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u62	Please, ladies and gentlemen! Here, Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u63	I would once again like to ask Mr Paradise on the subject of the procedure on the amendments. I have also referred to a previous debate, which in the same way has been delayed by amendments of a tenth or a half hour ago, and I have reminded the House of the provisions of the Constitution, which provide protection for the Member. How, then, they protect the congressman, Mr. Paradoxopoulos knows better. The MP has unlimited opinions and votes, is not bound, is not imprisoned, is not arrested. What does that mean? A combination of the unrestricted opinion and vote means that the time needed for the Member to understand the content of the amendments must be allowed to compare the provisions which are introduced as young people with those already in existence, so that he can decide consciously and exercise his right legally and constitutionally. The Rules of Procedure of the House therefore, when it requires that amendments be tabled in due course before a specific deadline, while the delays are only exceptionally allowed, protects the Member and the possibility of carrying out his duties. We therefore believe that these two amendments, which are imported, need a study. I shall say that and I shall end, Mr President, that there can be no amendments a quarter ago. In a previous bill there were twenty-eight amendments brought by the government. For God's sake - Mr Stathakis, you have also brought amendments at that time! - not to be able to legislate and become subject to adverse comments and comments because we have not been able to understand? I will ask for the amendments to be withdrawn. I am not speaking on the substance, like Mr Famellos. The time will come for that too, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u64	Thank you too, Mr. Carras. This issue, you understand, will be discussed at the Conference of Presidents. We'll move on to Mrs. Kozobol.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u65	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u66	You want to answer that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u67	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u68	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. I certainly do not want the process or the role of the Member with whom I myself have been honoured. And I understand the comments by colleagues very well. What I asked was simply your understanding of the fact that at least the amendment, which deals with expropriations, is of great social and economic importance. It is technical, it is a reform of certain procedures, on the basis of a procedure or an institution already provided for in Article 7a, which is unimportantly expropriations, and it can relieve the country of high criminal clauses, which it is very difficult for it to pay and speed up its projects. If that is what Members can understand at the moment by reading the text - of course they find it just in front of them - because I think it is simple, they can vote on it. Otherwise, I withdraw it and will certainly return in the near future. What I wanted to say is that I understand the subject of surprise. I believe that it goes beyond the urgency and simplicity of these arrangements. As far as I am concerned, I would say that we need to see this more relaxed, not only because of prehistory, which is long but also because of the fact that many times there are points of contact but also because it does not have the same meaning as in the past the issue of the relative nature of the amendments. In the past it was impossible for the lawyer or judge to find arrangements, which are irrelevant to the main content, when his material was purely paper and written texts and the FEK. Today, because of the Internet, this issue has lost its intensity previously. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u70	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Kozobol, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u71	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u72	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u73	I'm sorry about the cameras. I really mean it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u74	I'll explain it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u75	Explain it. I would very much like to hear what the photographic provision is, especially when all the administrative measures do not apply to the already serving members of the Competition Committee. From next term. So there's nothing photographic about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u76	We'll explain it, Minister. Take a look down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u77	I know the cameras very well. So that's true from now on. Secondly, I assume that photographic is not raised to be a relative of a and a degree with political persons. That's what the committee says. However, the Committee's instructions...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u78	All the independent authorities put it in.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u79	Of course, whatever you want. All you want!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u80	Is there another independent authority?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u81	And the agencies.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u82	I suppose you and your relatives have been raising issues lately... [[Noise in the Chamber]] So here we say that the Competition Committee cannot have a relationship with government officials and MPs. I think you will welcome it and vote with enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr Statakis. Mrs. Kozobol, I'll give you the floor... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, Mr. Theocharopoulos. There's the event we're going to continue with. It is a day of memory of Greek Jewish witnesses and Holocaust heroes. So, depending on what, I might give you the floor. If the event starts, you won't start, otherwise, you'll be interrupted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u84	Mr President, I have not completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u85	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u86	So if they are considered, from the point of view of counter-population, I will obviously withdraw them so that we can discuss them. If they are not photographic and you consent to the idea that they are the changes that need to be made, they are of a procedural nature, they strengthen what we want and they raise no question of substance, then I think we can continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u87	But there's a bill coming, Minister, Friday. Why don't you bring it on Friday so that there can be a debate and a timely statement?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u88	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point we will interrupt the sitting for a while on the legislative work and enter the special event for the memory of the Greek Jewish witnesses and heroes of the Holocaust. The President of Parliament will take the floor, Mr Nikolaos Voutsis. Ladies and gentlemen, we are interrupting for five minutes so that the event can begin.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, during the legislative work of today's Parliament, it has been decided by the Conference of Presidents to hold a special event on the day of remembrance of Greek Jewish witnesses and Holocaust heroes. I would like to inform you that in 2004 with Mr v. 3218 was designated the 27th January as the day of remembrance of Greek Jewish witnesses and Holocaust heroes and in 2005, on 28 February, there was the presidential decree for events held on 27 January throughout the country, a day of remembrance of Greek Jewish witnesses and Holocaust heroes. These decisions were too early, I can also say a precursor to relevant international initiatives and decisions, before the UN decision on this issue. So today we are doing this honour and it is a truly excellent honour for all of us, and for Parliament as a whole, but also for every one of us, a man and a woman MP who we are at this time of the House, to host here men and women who have been survivors and survivors of this dramatic situation, which has been sealed in the past century and who at the same time represent - some younger ones - collectors who have referred to these dramatic events. On behalf of the government, since I have just spoken, the Minister will make a relevant speech. We shall, however, begin this event, and I hope that what I will say will also be expressed by the whole of Parliament's wings or, in any case, by the parties that are here today, they are present by their representatives and indeed by the way I see them, and by the heads of parties. Today the Greek Parliament of Parliament honors the memory of the Greek Jewish witnesses and Holocaust heroes who were murdered in the Nazi concentration camps in Auschwitz - Birkenau. In addition to the six million Jews in Europe, thousands of resistance fighters were killed, including Greek and Greek women, as well as a million Roma, two hundred fifty thousand natural or mentally disabled and nine thousand homosexuals. Among the six million Jews in Europe who were victims of Nazi atrocity, sixty - seven thousand - one were Greek fellow citizens, men, women, children and the elderly. The presence of Jewish communities in Greece has been located since the 3rd century B.C. Their historic route is undeniable, as is their contribution to the economic, commercial, scientific and cultural activities of the country. During the Holocaust, the disasters and human casualties of Jewish communities in many cities in Greece had no precedent. It is estimated that the Jewish community of Thessaloniki, one of the most prominent in Europe, measured losses of 94% of its population. From the persecutions and death, neither were those who had been MPs of the Greek Parliament in the constituency of Thessaloniki, in honor of which a special event was held Saturday in the hall of the Municipality Council of Thessaloniki. The names of the members of the Greek Parliament who died are: Alauf Daniel, Ventura Zack, Kazes Michel, Gateni Leo, Bensanzi Mindes, Sisak, Sulam David, Chenio Albert. These MPs ended up at the same time in 1943, and one of them in 1942. They were professionals, traders, journalists, insurers, printers, from all the social stratification of our country back then. They were our colleagues who are among the victims of the Holocaust. The memory of all of this is today, together with many other countries in the world, members of the United Nations, who established in November 2005 by Resolution 60/7 today as an International Holocaust Victims Memorial Day. We also honor the Greek citizens of the Gentile Laws who have saved at the risk of their lives, persecuted by their nazis and partners. So together with the victims, we honour the memory of our three hundred and twenty-seven fellow citizens, who officially bear the title of Law. Like today, on January 27, 1945, the Allied Forces, and in this regard the Red Army, invaded the concentration camps in Auschwitz - Birkenau, releasing the incarcerated prisoners. The Greek Parliament, just a year before the UN resolution, introduced January 27th as the Memorial Day of the Greek Jewish witnesses and heroes of Holocaust, by voting for n. I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether he is prepared to take part in this debate. This House, in its 18-11-2015 unanimous decision, re-established the Intergroup Parliamentary Committee on the Claim of German Debts, as a follow-up to the respective committees that operated during the two previous parliamentary periods, which is already meeting and aspiring to present the first results of its work during the current parliamentary term. Ladies and gentlemen, study and contact with the history of the Holocaust is our duty and duty, not only in terms of self-evident return to the millions of victims, but also in terms of the need to educate today and future generations, especially today when the Nazi ideas seem to be finding new fans, today that refugee flows are increasing uncontrolledly, today that are building walls at the borders of the European states. I invite you to keep up a minute's silence in memory of the victims. [[In this respect, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks ……]] Immortals! [[Applause]] I would ask the Minister, Mr Friend, to speak on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Greek Jewish survivors or descendants of Holocaust survivors, 27 January was internationally established as Holocaust Victims Remembrance Day with a UN resolution in 2005, sixty years after the end of World War II. A similar decision was taken in 2002 by the Member States of the Council of Europe on the initiative of the Ministers for Education. The date is symbolic. On 27 January 1945 the Soviet army arrived in Auschwitz. The liberators saw only seven to eight thousand who had reputably survived, while a few days earlier the camp had been evacuated by fifty - eight thousand prisoners, who, in a course of death, were driven to other camps inside Germany. On 27 January, therefore, the release of forced labour and extermination sites, where nearly one million Jews and communists and other dissidents, gypsies, prisoners of war and homosexuals were killed, were mentioned. In Auschwitz II Birkenau huge gas chambers and hangers, in which since 1942 Jews have been exterminated from all over the occupied Europe and among them, since the spring of 1943, the Jews of Greece. The term 'holocaust' states the total destruction, the murder of nearly six million Jews in Europe by the nazis. It was a genocide, that is, the premeditated attempt to wipe out an entire people. The project dictated by racial ideology, anti-Semitism, was carried out methodically by the nazis, with the help of political bureaucracy, the German war machine and the complicity, consensus, or under the indifferent look of observers in Germany itself and in the occupied Europe. Neither the human pain nor the countless suffering that people have endured in their history are classified. The historical peculiarity of the Jewish genocide, Shoah, lies in the Nazi will to wipe the Jews out of the face of the earth. To implement this unprecedented decision, the Jews were sought, separated, displaced by trains in concentration camps and murdered, innocent, men, women and children, condemned for their origin. As a historical event the Holocaust was performed by certain victims and had specific victims. It was not inevitable, but not a historical accident or simple episode, without deep roots in anti-Semitism. The understanding of this story leads us to assume the responsibilities which we are currently responsible for in the field of education and the cultivation of consciences. We do not seek to draw up arguments that serve political identities. We wish, however, to conceive the depth of a painful history, in which bravery and solidarity often clashed with micropsy and betrayal, to reflect on the good and evil manifested in the great moments of history, but also in its small daily life. We will never be redeemed by the weight of the past unless we face the human barbarism that is recorded in history, never outside it. The Holocaust has had a global impact, but it has contributed to civilised Europe and it is primarily concerned with it. In Europe, the project of a new order of things was invented and implemented, based on the hierarchy of the so-called 'genders' and the domination of one on others, by the murder of what was considered different. In the heart of Europe, the gradual implementation of discrimination, displacement and extermination of the Jews was acted. Greek history is part of this European and global history. The Jewish communities in Thessaloniki or Yannina were almost completely destroyed in our country. All Jews were rescued in Zakynthos, many in Katerini, Volos and Athens. Some have fled, others have ensembled with the rebels, some have been hidden because of the solidarity and solidarity of our fellow citizens, others have betrayed them. However, the rule from the Twinmotich to Crete and from Corfu to Rhodes was the violent uproar, the displacement of the camps of the third Reich and the extermination of the Greek Jews. More than seventy - five thousand Jews lived in Greece before the war. When Greece was released, fewer than eleven thousand had survived. January 27 is a memorial tomb for all those killed, without even having the fate of a grave on earth. But it also honors those few who survived Nazi barbarism. Their suffering continued for years after their release from the camps. They were often treated as indestructible, responsible for their destiny, buffaloes. Yet they, despite the pain of losing, despite the countless difficulties, managed to regain the chopped thread of their lives. The heavy shadow of the Holocaust covers European culture. Survivors must have seen that with their testimony they have helped to gain consciousness of the huge breach that has occurred in our culture. As European citizens and with our ex post knowledge we are dealing with the distance that separates us from their sufferings, while their faces and voices remind us of the moral burden of events and their consequences. But we all have to think well and the path that led to the Holocaust, especially now that racism and anti-Semitism are again showing up in Europe. The smoke of the creams was the end of a course that began in words, words that differentiated people, who stigmatized those who did not belong to the majority, who asked ordinary citizens to despise, spit and cause suffering to their fellow humans, because they were not people, but parasites or antisocial elements that infected healthy society, words that started as viewpoints of some extremists, but which sprinkled the seed that it sprinkled, when the economic crisis crushed society and filled people with despair. We must all think that words have consequences. When the extreme right-wing German organizations, such as the Steel Helmets, who were the precursors of the Nazis, proclaimed that the Jews infect Germany and that they have a great influence to reduce, did not mean physical extermination in the death industries of all men, women and children who were Jews. When German doctors talked about the - in introductory terms - 'life that is not worth living', the German citizens themselves did not imagine that this would mean physical extermination of older people and patients with mental delay or serious disabilities. The Nazis proceeded to the extreme logic and consequences, using the well-known German methodology and efficiency, this ideology of parasites that contaminate healthy society and life that is not worth living. Therefore, let us not underestimate the importance of these words when they are heard and unfortunately heard either outright or disguised, even today. From this step I also have to say to the Greek anti-Semitisms, who do not lose the opportunity to question patriotism of the Greek Jews in any possible and unlikely ways. The blood of the Greek Jews was spilled for the freedom of Greece, as was the blood of the rest of the Greek citizens whenever the country needed it. Greek Jews, when referring to themselves, use the surname "homosexuals" and themselves define themselves as a religious minority. And how could it be done differently when they live in these soils from antiquity? Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Education, Research and Religion has proceeded with concrete actions, in cooperation with the Greek Jews, to safeguard our historical memory, but also to provide the opportunity for teachers and students to understand the importance of the Holocaust for global and Greek history. The Holocaust has been included in school books, while the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs co-organises annual seminars to train teachers for the teaching of the Holocaust. It also supports the annual visit of non-Jewish students to the Auschwitz Museum, one of the most important initiatives of our Ministry. In 2015, it was first organized, with the cooperation of the General Secretariat of Religion and the Jewish Museum of Greece, a student video competition on "The Holocaust and the Greek Jews". We are going to repeat it this year. School initiatives are also supported for cooperation with foreign schools aimed at holocaust and genocide. Such cooperation was implemented in the 6th New Smyrni High School with a school in the United States of America. For the first time since 2007, the Ministry of Education issued a circular this year for the Holocaust Memory Day, which is read today in all the schools of the country. On this occasion, I must congratulate the President of the Parliament for his current initiative, which is an honor for the Greek state, the Greek Parliament, the Greek history and the Greek Hebrews. Ladies and gentlemen, today we inaugurated the monument of the Greek law of the Nations. The example of these non-Jewish Greeks, who in the Occupation, risked their lives to save the lives of the Jewish Greeks, is a light of hope that firmly shows the way of virtue and democracy. Let's follow it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u91	Mr. Philly, thank you. I would like to inform the House that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has made such publications, and you have recently received the relevant books. As I would also like to inform you that as a parliament we will participate with sponsorship in the formation of a permanent monumental site in Auschwitz, which will be precisely for the victims of the Greek Jews, who left their lives there. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, the special event for the memory of Greek Jewish witnesses and Holocaust heroes has been completed and we will continue with the interrupted legislative work. So we're interrupting for five minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, we are going back to the debate on the bill. Mr Tindemans, before I give you the floor both Ministers want to place themselves on the amendments, so they will also have the floor. If you then think that there is a question, you will have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u93	It's not just when it comes to the subject. It has to be done anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u94	They'll tell us. Please, Mr. Paraskevi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u95	In view of the procedural difficulty, which has been pointed out here, I think we can withdraw the amendment on expropriations. I would ask Members, however, to study it as quickly as possible - it is very simple - so that it can be reintroduced as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr Stathakis, you have the floor too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u97	In the same spirit, I will withdraw the amendment to the Competition Committee, which will also be tabled immediately for discussion, probably in the first bill, which is possible at the end of the week.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u98	Please, Mr. Dendia, you have the floor. How many minutes do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u99	I will not be late, Mr President. If you're kind, I need three minutes. Mr President, first of all, I welcome the withdrawal of the two amendments. What I do not like, however, is the reasoning for their withdrawal and in particular the nomadic statement by the Minister of Development, Mr Stathakis, on the amendment to the Competition Committee. I would like to explain - and I say it now - that there is no misunderstanding about the position of Officerial Response - that withdrawal does not lift the offence. To show delayed amendments to an independent authority - and it is apparent from the Minister's statement that it will bring it back not on its own, but by design and by attempting to control the independent authorities - it does not honor the government or parliamentary morals and does not benefit the political system and society. In particular, within this amendment, there are clearly photographic and entirely unconstitutional provisions. I would therefore like to ask the government to demand - if you like - that these provisions should not be reintroduced. I think, Mr President, that the government is struggling through the difficulties it faces in implementing any policy, in self-regulatory solutions. That is what is being observed here today. I would ask, therefore, that, if you wish, in accordance with the constitutional order, these amendments - and in particular the amendment concerning the independent authority - should not come back. There is no need to consume the time of the National Representation for provisions which will in any case be offended to the Council of State, cancel, ridicule the legislator and eventually lead to a confirmation of the government's tendency to arbitrary.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u100	Please, Mr Stathakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u101	I'm really surprised by Mr. Treasury's placement. I refer him to the strict European Union directives on the composition and independence of national independent authorities. If he wants to defend first or second-degree relatives, if he wants to defend a committee which is the only one that has not provided for disciplinary procedures such as all the other independent authorities or raises some issues of authoritarianism and control, which I am surprised to see, he can do. It will, however, do so in the debate on the substance. You have the time to prepare yourself, to get into the matter and to see what are photographic provisions, what are the procedures to strengthen the immunity of the Competition Committee. You will agree with us that this immunity is needed by the Competition Committee if you are informed of what has happened recently in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency. I imagine you'll end up agreeing with us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u102	Thank you very much. Mrs Kozobol, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u103	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under discussion seeks to incorporate into our national law a directive and a decision, Directive 2011/99/EU of the European Parliament on the European Protection Order and Council of Europe's decisions on the organisation and content of the exchange of information from the criminal register between Member States. Both directives are moving in the context of strengthening the European security state through the promotion of cooperation between European countries. The order for judicial protection based on a judicial decision issued in another country than that which is implemented and imposed specifically - and restrictively in the law - which refers to prohibitions on the one against which it is directed, is issued when there is mobility of persons in European countries. This is provided for in order to protect the victim, in cases where it is judged by the investigating authority or by a council of the court that the approach of the defendant or the perpetrator to the victim could create risks of a new criminal behaviour. However, the problem arises as to what happens if the victim of a criminal act moves to another European Union country, in other words how the need to protect him will be covered. This need is to cover the European protection order. It is therefore aimed at protecting citizens through the mutual recognition of criminal court judgments. A mechanism for mutual recognition of decisions taken in criminal proceedings is created between Member States of the European Union and concerns measures to protect victims of criminal acts. The relationship is two-way. It works in cases where our country is required to provide judicial protection to a person who comes to our country from a country where restrictive conditions have been imposed, but also where the Greek court has imposed conditions of distance, abstention between a victim and a different country where the victim is established. The directive also provides for the adoption and implementation of the European Protection Order. Conditions are laid down for its application, formula and content. The procedure for issuing this European protection warrant is also provided for, but also for that authority, which is the prosecutor of the place of residence of the protected person. The prosecutor is responsible for recognising the foreign decision, but he is also responsible for issuing and transmitting the European protection order to another Member State to be enforced. The Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights shall act as an alternative to the transmission and receipt of the relevant orders. The public prosecutor is responsible for issuing the European protection order, but he is not obliged to apply this European order. It shall, however, monitor compliance with the law as well as the fulfilment of the legal requirements. The person causing danger shall be heard under conditions. The European mandate shall be issued only if there is a legal decision prohibiting a person from entering, contacting, and approaching the protected person. In other words, it has a very specific and clearly defined scope of the law. The Directive also provides for procedures for the transmission and extension of the mandate - if necessary - and for its renewal if necessary. Likewise, the prosecutor of the place of residence of the protected person may, on a reasoned request, refuse recognition of the protection order. In such a case, the protected person shall be entitled to appeal within 10 days of the date of the decision of the Advocate-General or if the decision of the rejection has been adopted by the Advocate-General before the Advocate-General after the legislative improvement made by the Minister in the course of the preparation of the draft law. Thus, the protection order ensures that the right of citizens of the European Union to move and move freely within the territory of the Member States is exercised, enjoying their right of protection on the basis of a judicial decision issued in another Member State - from what they are staying, without having to do the same procedure twice. The second part of the draft law to be passed seeks to incorporate the Council of Europe's decisions on the organisation and content of the exchange of information from the criminal register into Greek law. Such a legislative framework has been ratified in our country with v. 4212/1961 and has been incorporated into our national law by 20-4-1959 European Convention on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters. Articles 13 and 22 of that Convention provide for the exchange of information on criminal records. However, by modernising the communications systems between States, these provisions have been found to be inadequate. The need to improve these provisions has led to the specific decisions of the Council of Europe and the European Criminal Register Information System, ECRIS, which is already in place, has been organised. In the above decisions incorporated into our national law, rules are laid down in the draft legislation under which the evidence of the conviction of a national of another Member State of the European Union in the Member State of its nationality is transmitted, the obligation to retain this information and the clarification of the methods to be followed when requests for information from a criminal record are submitted. Thirdly, the implementation of the single information system of the European Criminal Register, ECRIS. The responsibility for the application of these procedures and the characterisation of the crimes lies with a committee set up by the Ministry of Justice, the Department of Criminal Registry, which is headed by a prosecutor, who has even been upgraded after the Minister's interventions and legislative improvements. That committee shall set up a list of crimes in order to make appropriate correlations with crimes from other countries and shall be informed by means of information relating to the nature of the conviction and the legal characterisation of the act. Data on translation are also available to facilitate implementation. The application of the Legislation on Cooperation in the Criminal Register leads to the reform of a single article of the Code of Criminal Procedure. It is Article 574, which refers to the elements necessary to personalise a person, so that the relevant arrangements can be implemented. It is laid down how the Greek Central Authority sends information to the other Member States on the convictions of their nationals in Greece, as well as any subsequent amendment or abolition of such information. It defines precisely the content of the transmission document and Greece's obligation to maintain the information transmitted in a similar manner so that, if necessary, relay them. It is defined that the requests for information in criminal proceedings addressed to the Ministry of Justice by natural persons relating to persons who are nationals, residents of other Member States, or who have been sentenced to them, are handled. This mechanism aims, inter alia, to ensure that persons convicted of specific offences, which entail a ban on a given profession, do not exercise it. For example, the ban on exercising a profession related to the supervision of children by a person convicted of a sexual offence against children. The way in which the competent Greek authority responds to requests from other Member States and requests are divided into those requested outside the criminal proceedings and within the criminal proceedings. The relevant deadlines and how to communicate shall be set by completing a specific document prepared by the European Criminal Register Information System. Finally, we must not omit that additional rules are laid down for the protection of personal data transmitted between Member States in the application of the law. The general rules on the protection of personal data, as already laid down in the framework of police and judicial cooperation, apply to this matter and are complemented by the rules laid down in this draft law. Personal data transmitted for the purposes of the criminal proceedings may be used only for the purposes of the criminal proceedings and in general all data may be used only for the purposes requested by the requesting State. Finally, the obligations of the competent authority for the implementation of this draft law are laid down, such as the drawing up of lists of criminal offences, penalties and security measures provided for in the Greek legal order, the explicit indication that the provisions that specifically regulate information from the criminal register continue to apply, as well as the necessary amendments to Article - as I said - 574 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. In conclusion, it is a matter of modernising and improving the existing framework for the exchange of information contained in the criminal record, synchronising the system with other Member States, with greater protection for the movement of personal data, since the exchange of information will be done electronically through a specific programme to those individuals who have access to it, which will be certified for that reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Kozobol. Mr Georgiotis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this may be a different day for Parliament, for the practices of good legislature. From what Mr Stathakis, the long-term minister, left behind, the two amendments - one and the other - will probably not be discussed today. I would like to point out that this is really a positive development in the practices that we used to date. I think it should also be a principle on which we can reach agreement and indeed start good legislation practices. Of course the amendments are necessary, and of course some of them have an urgent nature, but you understand better - and because of your capacity - that when we abuse this issue, we raise issues of credibility, we raise issues of feasibility. To be fair, Minister, I should like to say that your amendment, on the expropriation code, which I happen to know in my legal capacity, has indeed been in the right direction. I have handled a matter of expropriation to a large project of the Kilkis prefecture, where the 7A process was very useful and with the improvements you have brought, I think it will be even more useful. But when such an amendment is tabled at 11.45 hours on the day of the debate, we start with a question of credibility. So I think that at least it should be on the issue of the future and the relevance of the bill, that there should be consistency. Of course, I must also comment on the other amendment, which brought about very substantial arrangements for an independent authority. And, of course, the first question, which is raised in a Member of Parliament, is 'why now, why now, for the time being, why in an unrelated bill and why only on an independent authority?' Here we are talking at some point about the rules, which must govern all the independent authorities, on the obstacles that may exist. However, this should be done in a coordinated debate, with the time and the opportunity to place all the wings of the House. So let us think that your current energy is in the right direction and we hope it will continue. The draft law and the incorporation on which a very substantial debate has actually been held in the committees and in which we have made a point, which has been accepted by you and incorporated, as you have made some changes, I have only two things to say. It is an incorporation, which is not typical, which, as I have said to the Commission, will substantially improve the quality of life in the first place of the citizens of the European Union and then the process of exchanging information in criminal matters. In the first part, in fact, we have the regulation of extending the protection of a citizen from one Member State to another in relation to a decision of a criminal nature by the State of origin. We have to make it clear that the possibility of protecting with the provisions of civil law exists, they are separate. We are talking here about extending protection, resulting from a criminal decision. The second part relates, in essence, to the electronic recording and exchange of information in relation to the convictions of a citizen. This is not only important in the immediate and credible way in which each Member State and any administrative or judicial authority can be informed of the criminal record of any citizen entering that country. It also gives us the possibility, where there is a ban on exercising the profession, where there is a question of crimes against minors, of preventing the host State from making progress and of doing so in any procedure, in relation to the non-existence of a profession in that country or with any other consequence envisaged. I therefore believe that these two incorporations are absolutely positive and will indeed improve the relationship between the citizen and the State and, more generally, the lives of the citizens of the European Union. In conclusion and by stating that we are voting in favour of the bill, with the amendments, as you have brought it, and integration, let us hope that we do not have to talk again in this Chamber about delayed and unreported amendments. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u106	Thank you very much, Mr Georgioda. Mr Papatheodorou has the floor from the PASOK - DIMAR.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, first of all I should like to express our satisfaction at the withdrawal of the two amendments, which have been made on your own initiative in many cases. That's what honors you. I would also like to express our satisfaction at the fact that today was a special day and I do not think that we should have used political controversy on the way this House operates, nor on the fact that both of the amendments had a content which requires greater study and, of course, debate. There is legislative work in front of us and we will be able to discuss it. I come to the draft law, which we are discussing today. I would remind you that we have stated from the debate to the Commission that we are in agreement in principle and also with the articles, as well as with the legislative improvements that you have brought to the Commission. We will stress that by incorporating the directive and the Council's decision into our national law, the building of European anti-crime policy is being strengthened and the European area of justice, freedom and security is being strengthened. The provisions of the first part of the draft law include in Greek legislation the European Parliament Directive 2011/99 of the European Union concerning the European Protection Order. In particular, the object of these articles is to recognise in Greece the European protection order issued in another Member State - a Member State of the European Union and to provide for measures to protect a person from a criminal act of another person or a threat to criminal action of another person who may jeopardise his or her life, physical or mental integrity, dignity, personal freedom or sexual integrity to continue his or her protection in Greece. The concept of terms is defined below, as well as the competent authorities for implementation. The prohibitions and restrictions on its adoption are specified. In my position today, I will mainly focus on the second part of the draft law, which concerns the incorporation of Council Decision 2009/316/JHA, on the organisation and content of the exchange of information from the criminal register between the Member States and the European Criminal Register Information System, known as ECRIS. We shall be referring in full to the articles relating to the general principles, which include a better understanding of the text and concern the subject matter of the directive and the definition of the competent authorities for the implementation of this directive. Article 22 describes the procedure for the transmission of information by the national central authority to the central authorities of the other Member States and provides for the transmission of information to the Member States on the condemnation of citizens, even when the convicted citizen is a Greek citizen, that is what we consider to be in a positive direction. Article 23 describes the content of the transmission and the information which must be transmitted together with the copy of the judgment. I believe that it strengthens the process of exchanges of information and better knowledge of the convictions that have been made in other Member States. Article 31 provides that the national central authority is to draw up lists of offences provided for in the Greek legal order. We agree with the legislative improvements that you have made in this bill, as well as with the proposed and main penalties and security measures. It should be noted that by a decision of the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, a three-member committee is set up with responsibility for updating national lists, as well as for providing clarification that existing provisions governing information exchange, come from the criminal register and are included in bilateral or multilateral agreements between states, are still in force. The object of this chapter, as a whole, is, because of its serious importance in building a European anti-crime policy, to be in a very positive direction. The ECRIS system has been in place since 2012 in a number of countries such as Belgium, the Czech Republic, France, Germany, Spain, within the framework of the ‘Net of Criminal Registers’ programme. These countries have already made the electronic exchange of information on citizens' criminal records. This successful project has also created the need to extend the ECRIS system. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] In the past it was common to adopt decisions by national courts on the sole basis of previous sentences, which had been registered in national criminal records, while there was no knowledge of the existence of decisions in other Member States - Member States of the European Union, so that the work of justice is not facilitated or there is no knowledge of a previous judgment. The ECRIS has contributed and contributed to the improvement of the exchange of criminal records information between European States, since it now provides the opportunity for the electronic interconnection of criminal register databases between all Member States in a direct, similar and effective way through an electronic system. The national judge, the prosecutor, each administrative authority shall have access to the criminal record of each European citizen, irrespective of the country which issued the judgment. This allows for better functioning of justice and better exchange of information between Member States. Therefore, ECRIS is becoming and is based on the principle of decentralised architectural information technology. The data shall be stored by the Member States alone with national databases and electronic exchange of information shall be possible only after the central authorities of another State have been ready. The concentration of all the sentences of a person is carried out by the Member State of his nationality. The latter shall be responsible for the storage, update and transmission of all information requested by the other Member State. Such information relating to a judgment, issued against a foreign or a subsequent amendment thereof, must now be transmitted by the Member State of issue to it or to those of the nationality of the sentenced person. The transmission of this information shall be carried out in the framework of a standard European format using reference tables, as criminal offences and penalties are categorised. This also facilitates the compatibility of convictions and the reading of convictions between Member States. For all these reasons, we agree. We are voting in favour of the draft law and we consider it to be heading towards a European criminal and anti-crime policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, too. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill, as already mentioned, consists of two parts. The first is the 2011 directive on the European Protection Order and, secondly, the 2009 Framework Decision on the exchange of information from the Member States' criminal records, as well as the supplementary decision - the so-called ECRIS - on the establishment of the European Criminal Register Information System. Both the European Protection Order, the directive and the decisions that are incorporated, in the opinion of the Communist Party of Greece, are a strategic priority of the European Union. They are part of further building up the reactionary and repressive in the interests of the European monopolies and against the rights of the peoples, the falsely referred area of freedom, security and justice of the European Union, as formulated by the Tampere Agreement of Finland, then the Hague Programme, lastly with the Stockholm Programme of 2010 and in particular with regard to judicial cooperation between Member States in criminal matters. That is why we, as a Communist Party of Greece, voted against this bill - we told the committees as well - and, in principle, on the articles, that is to say, on the whole. Also, the legislative improvements brought by the Minister, which have actually been tabled, do not change the nature, the targeting of the bill. More specifically, in relation to the directive on the European Protection Order, which concerns Articles 1 to 18, we believe that a Euro-Union mechanism for mutual recognition in the Member States - of criminal decisions - on measures to protect victims of criminal acts is set up. Such a measure could, for example, be taken, as referred to in Article 4 of the bill, withdrew into a person who is considered dangerous in a place where the protected person resides. In essence, it complements relevant basic directives and decisions on the mutual recognition of criminal decisions in the Member States, which were incorporated into Greek law by Law No 4907/2014, despite the fact that its intended purpose, namely the directive, is different, namely the protection of the safety of victims and not the interests of the legal order and not of the convicted and accused persons. To highlight a few specific issues as the Communist Party of Greece, which we consider to be both problematic and dangerous. Article 2, which gives the basic definitions for the application of the provisions of the draft law and then the first definition of the concept of the European Protection Order, states that it is defined as a decision or provision of a judicial or other equivalent authority of a Member State. We believe that the 'other equivalent principle' is dangerous, as it is formulated. What could, for example, be an equivalent principle? It could be, for example, the police authority. We point out this because if it is not at least a court, we do not even have the substantiated guarantees of impartiality to take the measure so that it is even valid in all the Member States. Article 3 shall also be defined as a competent authority for the recognition of the European protection order, where Greece is the State of enforcement, the Advocates-General of the place of residence or temporary residence of the protected person. We believe that it is at least problematic that this recognition should be given to the Advocate-General and that there should be no judicial judgement, especially as a number of legal issues mentioned in Article 12 of the draft law should be dealt with and resolved in detail below. The prosecutor, in our view - and so is in Greek law, that is - is not a judge. Therefore, dangerous powers are extended by the prosecutor or another equivalent authority, for example the police. In relation to the framework decision on the exchange of information from the criminal record of the Member States, as well as the supplementary decision establishing a European criminal record information system, the ECRIS, which includes for the purposes of their incorporation and some additions to the documents kept in the domestic criminal record, in accordance with the Code of Criminal Procedure, Articles 19 to 32 of the draft law, seeks to upgrade the information exchange procedure, originating in the criminal register of the Member States and to establish another Euro-Union information-sharing mechanism, i.e. a file, next to the Schengen system and other mechanisms. It recommends more hunting for immigrants and refugees or their incarceration in modern concentration camps. In Article 22, on the transmission of information, it is stated that the national central authority is to inform the central authorities of the other Member States as soon as possible of their citizens' convictions in Greece. It goes on to say, "Even when the sentenced man is also a Greek citizen". That is to say, we note as negative that this transmission is made compulsory and automatically, i.e. without being requested by a judicial authority of the Member State in which the sentenced person is a national. In Article 28 on the conditions of use of personal data transmitted, an exemption shall be introduced in paragraph 2 and may be used beyond the purposes for which they have been requested. It says ‘to prevent direct and serious risks linked to public insurance’. That is what we realise is a sense of elasticity. An exception shall also be introduced under paragraph 4 for personal data derived from Greece. The provision of such exceptions clearly opens the way for a different use of personal data, in addition to the legal cases provided for and for which they are requested. At the same time, such mechanisms of continuous exchange and storage of so large volumes of electronic information with personal data, without guarantees for their safe preservation, pose risks for their leakage, to anyone, as experience has shown. In this way, we believe, individual social rights and democratic freedoms are being mutilated. It intensifies repression and authoritarianism at the expense of workers. It recommends strengthening the repressive mechanisms, Europol, Eurojust, Frontex and other European repressive mechanisms. It should be borne in mind that, by amending Article 574 of the Code of Civil Procedure, as provided for in Article 33 of the draft law, new information is added to the kept domestic records of a criminal record, including the number of the tax register. Finally, problematic for future criminal and more general treatment and the rights of convicted are the homogenisation of substantive penalties in a final penal register with the image of penalties which have been proclaimed by different countries with different criminal systems, with a different legal system, possibly with different social values, such as those for measuring penalties for suspension and others. Therefore, if we have this unification, it will be a dangerous sum, a sum, which, in our view, will be totally reactionary. For the Communist Party of Greece, the information to be given must only be provided through a judicial authority with financial and constitutional guarantees. After all, that is the nature of the criminal record in Greece. However, these directives show that while it shows an image, in our view, of fraudulent implementation of protection measures for victims or potential victims, etc., it actually introduces the rules of the European Union into the Greek system in order to create a supranational body aimed at suppressing and violating democratic rights in the long term and on the pretext of combating terrorism and organised crime. Consequently, I repeat, Mr President, we are voting against the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr. Synergy. Mr Iason Foilas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we had also stressed during the debate on the principle and on the articles of the draft law in the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs that we are voting in favour of it. We consider the introduction of a European protection order for victims of attacks to be positive, and the relevant decisions on the exchange of information, on the criminal record of convicted persons and on the creation of the corresponding ECRIS information exchange mechanism. As we know, on the basis of the current Greek penal law, in some cases the court can impose on the unreserved one that relates to his contact with the victim, when he considers that the approach of the defendant or the perpetrator to the victim could create risks of a new criminal behaviour, a new violent behaviour. So, as we know, in the Greek criminal economy - forensics, additional conditions can be imposed for the protection of victims by imposing similar conditions on the defendants or on the convicts. There is, however, a possibility in these cases where the court considered that similar conditions should be met, that the victim of a criminal act might be moved to another European country. At this point there is a need to protect the person who moves to the other country, and to cooperate with the authorities of the two countries, so that this protection can be provided. It is important that the European Prosecutor may issue a European protection order at the request of the protected person. The incorporation of the Community directive, which concerns - I repeat - criminal convictions and not civil ones, also results from the general need to maintain, develop and strengthen an area of freedom, security and justice for the citizens of the European Community, as established by the latest Stockholm agreement for the period 2009-2014. Throughout the European Union it is estimated that, every year, serious crimes can be committed, about seventy-five million people, one out of seven. These incidents, for example, of sexual violence against women, can have disastrous physical, emotional and economic consequences for their victims and families. When the differences in attitude, language and legislation are happening abroad, it may cause significant problems, which is why we must legislate on this. This draft law also incorporates two European Council decisions, 315 and 316, concerning the exchange of information on the criminal record and the establishment of a relevant information exchange mechanism, ECRIS. On the European Council's decision on the procedure for exchanging information on criminal convictions imposed on other Member States - we know that it was governed by the provisions of the European Convention on Mutual Judicial Assistance in Criminal Matters of 20 April 1959, and that it had to be modernised. The new institutionalisation process has been launched for a decade and has already been a political priority for the Council and the Commission since 2005. It is a good decision because it opens up streets so that a single European criminal record base will be created in future, which will create permanent channels of communication between national judicial authorities. Now it's just national criminal records. The supplementary decision on the mechanism for exchanging criminal information is very important - in our country the corresponding ECRIS mechanism has already been in operation since 2012 - because it ensures that persons persecuted for sexual offences, for example at the expense of children, cannot hide the fact of their conviction or the prohibition of professional activity relating to children in another Member State. We have pointed out to the Commission the risk in the provision of Article 26 and it is good that you have incorporated such an improvement in the protection of the personal data of persons involved whose information is likely to be used for purposes outside the criminal proceedings. I would, however, like, on the occasion of the adoption of this draft law, to give a few thoughts in general on political matters, but in particular on justice in our country, because this debate is not taking place in a vacant capacity, but at a time when we are at a critical time for our country. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, things in our country are getting worse. The indications are dense and are understood by the vast majority of our citizens, even by those who voted for Mr Tsipras. Instead of the government prioritising growth and attracting investment, we can get out of the tunnel of the crisis, legislate or engage in the opposite direction. It is not just what you want to do in the insurance sector, which, in its last quarterly report, presents you with the Office for the Budget of the Parliament. There is also the dissolution of the private sector, the poorening of the middle class, the extermination of the farm, which is coming to be added to Mr. Friend's effort to isolate the universities from the international roundabout, the establishment of a full family rule in public administration - from the well-known to all 4-2-1, to say this, gentlemen, of the Anti-Population, we have come to the assessment according to the ancestors' racing practices! - and finally, the establishment of the media subordination by the party ERT, which does not even justify its operating costs. Last, sad example is the attack on journalists who simply have a different view from the government and the eloquence of Mrs Lepen - who would believe it! - in a left-wing government video. In addition, the uncontrolled opening of the borders to refugees, economic migrants, the threatened exit from the Schengen area and their country's embassy as a reception and residence centre, with proposals to create camps with four hundred thousand immigrants, are also alarming signs showing the scale of the disaster taking place or imminent. Greece is rapidly removed from Europe and the effort of four decades for European Greece is only evaporated within a few months because of the unresolved SYRIZA - ANEL policy and the Prime Minister himself. Unfortunately, the signs are equally negative in the field of justice. It is not so much, Minister, that you have been bringing us directives that have been passed since 2011 - and in the past the previous governments have done so too - but it is all that you have done in recent months in this sensitive area of justice. What should I first remember? The attempt to manipulate judges and prosecutors? The puppet logic of voting amendments to unrelated bills or even incorporation of whole justice control bills, as was done in the cohabitation agreement? It seems that for you and your government there is only the executive power, with the effort you are making to directly control judicial authority. And among all this comes back to the fore and the question of terrorist Savva Xirou, after the incredible decision of the National Theatre. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, it is not only that a few months ago you passed a bill with the sole, almost, aim of releasing the Xeros himself, leading to a crisis in our country's relations with the United States of America, but also with common sense, I would say. In addition, we were amazed at the fact that the central scene of the National Theatre has already taken up a theatrical work based on the autobiography of Mr. Xeros, in the autobiography of a man who has never repented of the pain he caused in the murders against citizens. I am not saying that you are responsible, Minister, personally, for this fact, but it is indicative of the fact that what values are displayed by the new regime you are serving from your position. I refuse to follow the reasoning of government policy. You give Mr Xeros the opportunity to do art, perhaps even to be an art and, in this way, to purify the serial murder of innocent people in some way. It is obvious that the purification of Mr Xeros is now a permanent and persistent priority for some. Some seek not only the natural liberation of the serial killer, but also the despair of its actions through the ideologicalization of terrorism. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that was the very method of nazis and I say it, since we mentioned the Holocaust of the Jews a moment ago. All of their terrorist acts, all their brutal murders, the Nazis cloaked them with a cloak of ideology. I want to state from the outset that we are far from exercising censorship in artistic works. The National Theatre, however, is an institution of our state and specific construction procedures are provided for, with specific objectives, with specific policies and always with the Greek people's money. When they deviate from these objectives, even if the institutions, which at the time are running them, are criticizing them. Imagine, honourable Members, in France, the French taxpayers would pay to bring up the national theatre that would be based on the accounts of the jihadists who blooded Paris or New York to be financed by the state show based on the so-called Osama bin Laden and the killers who caused the crime of 11 September! Not only would the government fall, but there would also be an international outcry. And it is even more outrageous the response of the National Theatre, which states, among other things,: "The theatre as an art does not come to quantify again, but to highlight key human problems. It's a public dialogue area. The Experimental Tent, as a research site for young artists, must also be dealt with with dangerous issues." So let us say, Minister, and ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, to the mother of the twenty-year-old Thanos Axarlian that his murder is a dangerous matter! In my opinion, the Minister for Culture should already have removed from their position those who from the board of directors of the National Theatre supported and promoted this proposal. In any case, I would like to hear the Minister's view on this matter. Ladies and gentlemen, the question is raised by many about how to deal with the extremely grim situation that I described above for our country. I would like to say that in the republics there are no deadlocks. The problem of the country was and will be mainly political, and as such it will have to be addressed. Only with radical twists and clear proposals to the Greek people can there be a prospect. This government has already closed its cycle. Only a new post-population can promise a hopeful future. What the country needs is a reforming tsunami that will scan everything in its path. I will only close by saying two words about the amendments. It's a pleasure not to bring them, Minister, today. We urge you, however, not to bring them on Friday as they stand, because they have nothing but photographic provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor for some sort of legal addition he wants to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u113	I shall say a few words to Mr Fofila. Because he made an overall attack on the work of the Ministry of Justice during the last period, I'll remind you of two things. When Law 4322, which provided for the abolition of the type III detention shops, was passed, it was said that the abolition would dismantle prisons and lose security. Since this arrangement, we have had less violence in prisons and no escape. No one, however, recognised his mistake by those who criticised that regulation and no one today recognises that we have more security in prisons through this regulation. Secondly, it was said that the regulation for the disabled became "photographic" for the sake of Savvas Xiros. The truth is, two thousand people were fired. Fifty-five were fired with the care arrangements for the disabled. To them it wasn't the Drought. However, none of those who were formerly looking for a photographic device acknowledged the fact that this provision was "photographic" and concerned only a large number of people on the basis of an arrangement which had institutional characteristics. In any case, I would like to make one last legal correction, improvement. It's a detail of detail, and I don't think it's gonna hurt you at all. In Article 28 of the draft law - which is currently being discussed, namely those directives - the title refers to ‘Terms of use of personal data (Article 9(1), (3), (4) and (5))’. Paragraph 2 shall be omitted. Number 2 should be added. The text of Article 28 also refers to paragraphs 1 and 5. It should be written 1, 2 and 5. The correction comes after reading the Report of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, which points out this last point. I think it is a completely technical detail, which does not change the content of the regulation in any way, and I am simply making it for a legal correction. I'm filing it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u114	I would ask that they be distributed. Mr. Fotillas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u115	I want the floor for ten seconds because my name has been heard. Indeed, after the bill on the decongestion of prisons, I do not know that violence has increased very much in prisons. It was particularly increased in the streets, for everyone had come out of prisons and committed crimes on the streets. Remember concrete examples? They've been caught by those who had come out and killed outside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u116	Mr President, I would like to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u117	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u118	Because it is serious about mentioning that the policy of certain officials has led to increased crime, I am speaking for once and for all. I mean that we have repeatedly heard that those who committed various serious crimes were rid of prisons, on the basis of the latest regulations. I think it has been documented on several occasions that those who have been abducted under the last regulations and who belonged to specific categories - were made redundant earlier - to categories of disabled or minors, had nothing to do with those who have recently committed various violent, barbaric crimes and homicides. This is simply a slander, which is repeated at times. A documented answer is given, but the category continues without taking into account the reason at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u119	Mr. Katsikis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before entering the substance of the draft legislation, let me express a concern about the reactions that have arisen from colleagues on the amendments brought by our ministers. It is a reflection, which stems from the thought of whether the power of the substantial parliamentary work should be circumvented by the force of formalism, as expressed by the respondents, confronting colleagues, who otherwise agreed that these amendments would probably benefit rather than harm, according to their content. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill being passed is necessary. It is the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights concerning the transposition into national law of Directive 2011/99 of the European Union, on the European protection order for the Decision 2009/315, on the organisation and content of the exchange of information from the criminal record between Member States and Decision 2009/316 on the establishment of the European System of Criminal Register Information, the so-called ECRIS. These provisions aim to extend the protection of persons at risk throughout the European Union, as well as to ensure a high level of protection for citizens through the systematic electronic exchange of information from criminal records of Member States. Basically, the legislation will contribute positively to the development of a climate of freedom, security, justice and civil protection in a Europe that currently lives in fear of terrorist attacks and other criminal acts. On this point I would like to highlight the importance and necessity of voting for this legislation, which makes a significant contribution in this direction. In particular, by incorporating European Directive 2011/99 into Greek law rules are laid down allowing the authorities of countries-members that have issued a protection order for a person against crime to issue a European protection order in order to continue the protection of that person in any other Member State in which that Directive is in force, in accordance with the law of the State issuing the protection order. This is how the objective of the European Union and of any Member State - such as Greece - is achieved in order to maintain and develop an area of freedom, security and justice. Furthermore, the Directive stipulates that judicial cooperation in criminal matters in the Union is based on the principle of mutual recognition of judgments of all kinds. With the resolution, therefore, this draft law will ensure the protection of Greeks and European citizens from anything that jeopardises their life or physical and mental integrity in all the Member States to which the directive is in force. With regard to the economic consequences, it is estimated that the adoption and implementation of the law will not burden the citizens or the national economy. In addition, this draft law will strengthen the system of public administration and justice by setting up a special service to the Protoforms of the State with main objectives, firstly, the transmission of European protection orders to the authorities of the other Member States and, secondly, the reception and enforcement of corresponding European protection orders issued by other countries-members. Finally, the incorporation of the directive into Greek law is entirely legal, according to Articles 2(1) and 5 of the Greek Constitution, as it establishes respect for and protection of human value as the primary obligation of the state, regardless of nationality, race, religious or political beliefs. Apart from this directive, it is relevant to implement the Framework Decision 2009/316 of the Council of the European Union on the establishment of a European Information System for Criminal Register, the so-called ECRIS. The ECRIS is a decentralised system of criminal register data stored exclusively in national databases and exchanged electronically between the central authorities of the Member States on request. Member States should be responsible for the functioning of the national criminal record databases and for the effective exchange of information between them. The information exchanged should be transmitted electronically through a standard format allowing for the exchange in a uniform, easily translated computer. In accordance with Article 29 of the Treaty on European Union, in order to ensure a high level of freedom, security, justice, protection for citizens, there is a need for a systematic exchange between the competent authorities of the Member States of information coming from criminal records. It is worth noting that the electronic interconnection of criminal records is part of the e-justice project - electronic justice that is - which was repeatedly defined as a priority by the European Council during 2007. In fact, since 2009, a pilot project was set up for the interconnection of criminal records, which has been officially implemented since April 2012 by several Member States. It is therefore imperative that our country be consistent with the other European countries and that it adopts the implementation of the exchange of information in criminal matters. In the resolution, therefore, this draft law will improve the quality of information exchange, with many positive consequences for society and for citizens. For example, if a conviction is registered in a criminal record of a Member State, then the persons being persecuted will not be able to hide their conviction in any other Member State, with any consequence of the conviction. It should be noted here that the adoption of the draft law will not impose any financial burden, as I have said before, on the national economy and on the citizens, as according to Decision 2009/316, all expenditure on the common communication infrastructure will be covered by the general budget of the European Union. As Independent Greeks, we believe that the adoption of this draft law in application of the European Parliament's directives will significantly help to exchange extremely serious information from the criminal record of the Member States, which will lead to the more active and effective protection of Greek citizens as natural persons against criminal acts by another person, with regard to their mental and physical integrity, dignity and personal freedom. That is why we are voting in favour of this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, too. Since none of the parliamentary representatives have asked for the floor, Minister, would you like to say something?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u122	No, Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u123	The debate is closed at the outset and on the articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: ‘Integration into national legislation: Directive 2011/99/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 on the European Protection Order, Council Decision 2009/315/JHA of 26 February 2009 on the organisation and content of the exchange of information from the criminal record between Member States’ and Council Decision 2009/316/JHA of 6 April 2009 on the establishment of the European System of Information on Criminal Register (ECRIS) pursuant to Article 11 of Framework Decision 2009/315/JHA’. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u124	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u125	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: ‘Integration into national legislation: Directive 2011/99/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 on the European Protection Order, Council Framework Decision 2009/315/JHA of 26 February 2009 on the organisation and content of the exchange of information from the criminal record between Member States’ and Council Decision 2009/316/JHA of 6 April 2009 on the establishment of the European System of Criminal Record Information (ECRIS) pursuant to Article 11 of Framework Decision 2009/315/JHA’ was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the vote on the articles. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u126	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u127	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u128	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u129	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u130	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u131	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u132	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u133	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u134	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u135	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u136	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u137	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u138	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u139	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u140	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u141	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u142	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u143	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u144	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u145	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u146	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u147	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u148	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u149	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House agree to Rule 13 as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u150	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u151	Article 13 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u152	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u153	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u154	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u155	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u156	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u157	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u158	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u159	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u160	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u161	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u162	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u163	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u164	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u165	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u166	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u167	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u168	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u169	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u170	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u171	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u172	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u173	Article 24 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u174	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u175	Article 25 was therefore accepted as being majority. Can Article 26, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u176	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u177	Article 26 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u178	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u179	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Can Article 28, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u180	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u181	Article 28 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 29 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u182	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u183	Article 29 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u184	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u185	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 31 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u186	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u187	Article 31 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u188	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u189	Article 32 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 33 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u190	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u191	Article 33 has therefore been accepted as majority. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked in this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u192	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u193	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: ‘Integration into national legislation: Directive 2011/99/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 on the European Protection Order, Council Framework Decision 2009/315/JHA of 26 February 2009 on the organisation and content of the exchange of information from the criminal register between Member States’ and Council Decision 2009/316/JHA of 6 April 2009 on the establishment of the European System of Information on Criminal Register (ECRIS) pursuant to Article 11 of Framework Decision 2009/315/JHA’ was accepted in principle and by a majority vote. Do you accept at this point that we vote on the bill as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u194	Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u195	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u196	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: ‘Integration into national legislation: Directive 2011/99/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 on the European Protection Order, Council Framework Decision 2009/315/JHA of 26 February 2009 on the organisation and content of the exchange of information from the criminal record between Member States’ and Council Decision 2009/316/JHA of 6 April 2009 on the establishment of the European System of Information on Criminal Register (ECRIS) pursuant to Article 11 of Framework Decision 2009/315/JHA’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u197	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to ratify the Minutes of today's sitting on the whole of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u198	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Tuesday 17 November 2015, Wednesday 18 November 2015, Friday 20 November 2015, Monday 23 November 2015, Tuesday 24 November 2015, Thursday 26 November 2015, Friday 27 November 2015, Monday 30 November 2015 and Tuesday 1 December 2015 have been distributed and the House is asking if it validates them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u199	The minutes of Tuesday 17 November 2015, Wednesday 18 November 2015, Friday 20 November 2015, Monday 23 November 2015, Tuesday 24 November 2015, Thursday 26 November 2015, Friday 27 November 2015, Monday 30 November 2015 and Tuesday 1 December 2015 were validated in the morning. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fifty-six students and students and three teachers attending the 2nd High School of Lefkada. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-27-S1-commons.u200	With the agreement of the House at 14.47 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, 28 January 2016 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of the proceedings of the House: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate and (b) legislative work, according to the supplementary agenda distributed.
