ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning, we shall begin the sitting. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to announce to the House the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 1 July 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of its Rules of Procedure). (Parliament adopted 1. The Question No 1055/28-6-2016 by the Member of Parliament of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skouriakou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity concerning the reintroduction of the Collective Act of Actors. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question under number 1049/27-2016 by MP I Piraeus, Nea Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the incomplete control of false diplomas in recruitment of the Fire Corps. 3. The current question by MP Evia of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction about the 'absorption of the overriding contractual firefighters of five years' obligation. 4. Under number 1058/28-6-2016, a topical question by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Ministers for Rural Development, Food and Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction on compensation for the people affected in Peloponnese from the floods and hail of 25 June 2016. 5. Under number 1048/27-2016, a timely question by the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on "the disastrous and unjust demand for payment of a great and unjust fine to businesses that had been closed during the crisis and are now asking for them to be re-activated". 6. Under number 1053-27-2016, a topical question by Congressman I, Mr Marios Georgiades, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the conclusion of individual works lease contracts with centralised, decentralised and all services of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, as well as the NPCIs and NPCIs supervised by the above Ministry. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Evros of New Democracy, Anastasios State, about the upgrading of the Garden Customs and the exploitation of the prospects of entry and exit points in Evros. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Ministers for Rural Development and the Environment and Energy on measures to compensate farmers and restore crops and infrastructure from the fire caused on 19-6-2016 in Rhodes. 3. The Question No 1063/28-6-2016 by the Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of State concerning participants in the competition on television licences. 4. Athanasios Davakis, Member of the Commission. — (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mrs Athanasios Davakis on her excellent report. 5. The 992/13-2016 topical question by F Vice-President of Parliament and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK. - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastinos to the Minister of Finance, on the bankruptcy of the country and the financial deflection. 6. Mr Georgios Katsiantonis, Member of the Association of Central Banks, with regard to the statements by the Head of Eurogroup, Mr Düsselblum on the non-viability of the Greek programme. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question asked by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Health, on the redundancies of OKANA officials in Patras. 8. The Question No 1034/21-6-2016 by Independent MEP B'Athens Eftathios Panagoulis to the Minister of Finance about the costs of the 'deputies of the institutions' in the public sector. 9. The question asked by MP Arcadias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Papaliou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the ‘Hadjigaki package’ and the decision of the European Court of Justice to recover the sum of 327 million. Euros as illegally paid to Greek farmers in 2008 and 2009. 10. The Question No 1003/14-6-2016 by Congressman Pireos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Diamantos Manolakos to the Minister of Health on the operational problems of the anti-cancer hospital "METAXAS". 11. The question by number 996/14-6-2016 of the Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the reading of the Gospel on the day of the Holy Spirit in Agia Sophia. 12. The Question No 899/23-5-2016 by MP Magnesia of New Democracy, Christou Boukorou, to the Minister of Health, concerning the exclusion of Volos Hospital from the ESRB programme. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The Question No 708/28-32016 by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy Mr Christos Stakouras to the Minister of Health on the problems of the General Hospital of Lamia. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure). 1. The question asked by MP II of the New Democracy by Mr Gerasios Giakoumatos to the Minister of Health about the problems at Manzavinateio Hospital in Lixouri. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Attica of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulou to the Minister of Health about the problems in the operation of the surgical rooms of the General Hospital of Elefsina "Thrias". Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the topical and urgent questions debate I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy "To ratify its amendment and consolidation of its single text of 13 February 2002, the Concession Agreement between the Greek Government and the Port Authority of Piraeus SA and other provisions of the Agreement of 13 February 2002". We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS First we will discuss the sixth question under number 1036/22-6-2016 for the first cycle of the Athens Parliamentary II of the Union of Centres Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Finance on the urgent need for a ministerial decision setting out the conditions and procedures for exemption from excise duty on products intended for the production of vinegar. Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for being here. When the excise duty on wine was imposed in the case of unpsympathetic, as equivalent to the fees of training, the Government did not take into account the adverse effects that will arise. An important side effect is that degraded wine products cannot be put on the market, like by-products, which are, however, marketable, suitable for vinegar. By-products and degraded material are therefore used to produce vinegar. This, however, was borne by 1-1-2016 with the excise duty of 0,20 minutes per litre, as was the case with the by-product of wine. What did that have to do with it? The value of the degraded wine, which is about 0.18 or 0.20 minutes - the commercial value - as shaped on the market, plus 0.20 minutes on the litre with the excise duty, doubled the price. What happened? They turned to other markets. The production of vinegar has already been reduced. It is already in tax warehouses large quantities, which are also altered, since it has not yet cleared up the landscape. Why am I saying that? From the literature I have looked at, Mr President, I have seen that microbial loads are being created, so-called'moulla'. She's still removed, she leaves smell and smells the by-product, so she's rejected. The new season of production - from autumn - has already come closer and the warehouses will have to be released. These will therefore be rejected and lost their value. Imports already take place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u3	What's the question?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u4	I'll be right over. In this sense we have the following problem: the government has realised that it should regulate this issue - after three months of the introduction of the special tax - but it has been conditioned by a ministerial decision which the Ministry of Finance has not adopted. It is therefore still under a customs tax regime and the market is dead. That is why I asked the Minister to give us his explanation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u5	Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Your Honor. I will not agree with you on what happened to VAT in education. We have heard a great deal of criticism in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u7	I didn't make a special criticism. I was reporting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u8	Report. But at some point a proposal has to be tabled. As long as a proposal is not tabled, the more certain we are that what we did about VAT on education was right. But let us not waste any more time on political assessments. With regard to this particular issue which you raise with your question - which is quite rightly raised by the issue of delays - I should like to tell you that there is definitely a delay in the services of the Ministry of Finance. This decision had to have come out a long time ago and had to deal with this problem. The data of the decision could not be included in the law because they are so complex, so technical and so legal, the issues that should be defined in a specific ministerial decision. Thus, the law was right to predict that a ministerial decision had to be made. But there's no excuse that we've been delayed as a Treasury and we should have made this decision earlier. Of course, as you know, from your legal knowledge, with regard to number 1, which you say: 'You intend to exercise your authority and adopt the above anticipated regulatory decision', as you know, the GDR, the General Secretariat for Public Revenue, is an independent authority, and the legal powers of the Minister are specific. The GATT authorities must prepare these decisions. I have political responsibility, according to the Prime Minister's decision, but the GATT has independence. So, of course, I also have the general political responsibility, but everyone should take responsibility. Nevertheless, the answers we will be submitting and which we have from the two relevant departments, namely from the GATT Special Consumption Tax Department and from the GATT Alcohol and Food Directorate again, state in particular about these issues that they are at the last stage of processing by the co-responsible directorates of our Ministry and that this decision is to be adopted. As far as this decision is concerned, therefore, which certainly had to have come out long ago to prevent these problems from arising on the market, my information is that it will come out in the next few days so that we do not create any other problems for the citizens who already have the previous problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u9	Here, Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u10	I shall be brief, Mr President. Of course the implementation of the law depends on a regulatory decision. A regulatory decision takes some time to prepare itself, because it has technical details. That's why I won't argue with Mr. Alexiadis. But I'm gonna argue with him another point. If the Government intends to introduce a provision of law and regulate an issue and knows that the adoption of the regulation will be delayed, would it not be useful, Minister, once you have decided to introduce a new legislation, to start preparing the ministerial decision accordingly? I think you should appreciate this at next stage, not only on the subject of wine and vinegar, but on the lack of such delays in general, as you honestly accept that there is a delay. What I want to say briefly, Mr President, is that, when something is delayed to deal with the market, the market is in the process. In this case, i.e. the quantities of degraded wine could not be made available to make vinegar, but were replaced by imports. So competition between the two products between more countries has now begun. The market needs are partly met because imported goods are not taxed, they do not have the excise duty. Therefore, a favourable import climate may have already been created. So that's what the Ministry of Finance has to count on in its decisions, because today there are issues like those of payments. Appropriations have been allocated to buy from abroad the degraded wines and become a limit. This means that there is constant cooperation with commercial houses abroad, which can continue even if the issue is resolved, as Mr Alexiadis says. That is why I repeat that they should be issued in a very short time - almost at the same time as the legislation - so that we do not address these issues, because the course of time in total is six months. Since the adoption of the law, from 1-1-2016 the excise duty is in force, it is already six months that the product is being charged. Also, as long as the regulatory decision is not adopted, it is subject to a tax regime and there are still problems. A final point will also be raised, which I would like to hope will come to light. As long as the decision is delayed and reasonable time is passed, claims to compensate traders-producers are also raised. And at least at the present time, I do not want to say about them, because if they suffer financial damage which cannot be dealt with elsewhere, such as if the disposal of all these degraded products is to be freed from tax warehouses and the new soap is in place, then how will the damage be covered? I don't know if there's a regulation, I don't know if there's a line that can cover it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, too. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I will not repeat the criticism of delays. I've done it another time. I want to be honest. There are areas where the Ministry of Finance goes far faster and goes far ahead of the facts and there are other areas where, due to other work, there are delays. The staff at the Ministry of Finance, unfortunately, are very little. There is a great deal of work and sometimes - as in this case - we unfortunately cannot deal with the problems of businesses and citizens in time. That's a given one. But you must see the effort made at the Ministry of Finance as a single set. Because in some areas we may not be as fast as we should be, but see the overall picture. The overall picture, as can be seen from the results, as can be seen from our great struggle, shows that we are responding to the problems and trying to improve whatever delays exist. I would be happy if at some point we could put aside our legislative system all this industry in the circulars and decisions that come out. Our system should be much simpler. We must have specific frameworks and specific rules, and we must not have a single provision every time to change a whole story and need so much work either in the Ministry of Finance or in companies - accountants and lawyers - about what needs to be done. We are working in this direction. And we are working on making our tax system simpler and more understandable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the first under No 1044-27-2016 top question of the first cycle of the MP Drama of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Karagiannidis to the Minister of Health, on the professional and work upgrade of the ‘help nurses’, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. Also, the eleventh question, under number 944/3-6-2016, of the second question of the Parliamentary Attica of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Paraskevi Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Health, concerning patients who operate at their own expense at the University Hospital of Thessaloniki "ACHEPA", will not be discussed due to an obstruction of the Minister. The tenth third under number 966/7-6-2016, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Health, on the state of Nice, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. Also, the fourteenth question under number 935/31-5-2016 by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks, Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos, to the Minister of Health concerning the shortcomings and problems of the fleet of the EKAB, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The Fifteenth under number 825/254-2016 topical question for the second parliamentary court of Piraeus, Mr.Theodoras Megalonikos, Minister of Health, on the residual functioning of the Anticancer Hospital of Metaxas, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. It will now be discussed fourth by number 1046-27-2016, first question by the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning measures to be taken on the damage to the production of olive oil in areas of Crete, due to a problematic sprinkling of olives. Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, small and medium-sized farmers, in addition to the consequences of the implementation of the new European Union CAP, taxation, their full dependence on the big traders and industrialists for the disposal of their products, also suffer from the consequences of the uncertain climatic phenomena which have caused extensive damage to olive oil production. The problematic fruiting observed this year is the result of prolonged annoyance, other climatic changes, such as livat and opaque rains rinsing the pollen. In fact, this year's winter in Crete locally had 70% less rainfall than last year and 50% compared to the last decade. This unsuccessful fruitage inevitably leads to very great damage to olive production, which locally touch 60% of total production in areas such as the Municipality of Viannos and the Municipality of the Regional Unit of Heraklion, in regions of the Region of Lassithi and Rethymno, on the mountains of Chania with the tsunate olive, as well as in several areas in the plains of Kissamos, Platania and Apokoronas. The rate of affected production is estimated to increase by far, particularly if the extreme climate changes continue until November. Water reserves in the water catchment area have been significantly reduced under the combined drought and overflow of water. It depends, of course, and on what course the torch - pyrimite, squirrel - and other diseases will follow. Beyond this problem, it is intensely identified and the dehumidation effect in many areas, where it is evident that tree leaves have yellowed and gradually fall into the ground. In fact, many farmers are making extensive trimmings of problem trees. The question is this: What are you doing, Minister? How's your government? We have an ELGA that works backwards and all it does is carve farmers, without returning absolutely nothing. Just the day before yesterday, ELGA's head of Crete said that the conditions for compensation laid down by the regulation were not met. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Where are you going with this? Farmers are desperate, angry with your policy, the current regulation and the policy of extermination of small producers, with an EAGF virtually nonexistent. So we ask you, Minister: Firstly, what measures will you take to immediately record all the damage caused by the miserable fruiting of olives and to compensate producers immediately, to provide exceptional special aid and to provide special facilities and other benefits to the affected, so as to enable them to continue their production capacity? Secondly, what measures will the ELGA take to meet the needs of farmers as an exclusively public body, financed by the State budget, sufficiently qualified in specialities, staff, by changing its regulation to compensate 100% for any damage to plant and livestock production, infrastructure, for any type of disaster from an unstable outside, weather or other indirect or direct factor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u15	You've got a second one, Mr. Synhronakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u16	I'm done, Mr. President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u17	Let's give you a few rains from Iato-Carnania, give us some tourism. Mr. Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u18	Mr Colleague, I understand your concern and anxiety, but, as you are surely aware, the damage from acarrots - that is, reduced production, bad fruiting, schinopamia - is not covered by insurance by the ELGA, in accordance with the applicable Agricultural Production Insurance Regulation. It's Law 3877/2010. However, these losses - i.e. from apricots - can be included in state financial aid programmes. They're known as PSAs in the rural area. However, in order for producers to benefit from aid to compensate for the loss of income in accordance with the State Aid Regulation and the guidelines available from the Commission, there should be some conditions which are as follows: Firstly, the production of the year of damage has been damaged by type of crop product at the county level of 30% and by reference to the average yield of the previous three years. And, of course, this is based on the official statistics of the country. Secondly, scientific evidence should be provided by a committee designated by the Ministry of Rural Development that loss of production is the result of adverse weather conditions. Thirdly, official meteorological data must confirm the characterisation of weather conditions as unfavourable. Fourthly, to approve the cost of compensation for losses by the General Accounting Office of the State, i.e. to allow the country's budgetary conditions for the payment in question. What I have to say to you is - particularly with ELGA Heraklion - that we are following the evolution of olive cultivation in the wider region of the prefecture, but also in other areas of the island. I would say, however, that we are monitoring the effects of the incarnation effects as a whole throughout Greece as a whole. In the given period, the branch of ELGA, in addition to its permanent geotechnical staff, is already assigned to seasonal staff in order to cope with the problems, the work of personalised assessments. In addition, the Agency, for the purpose of always carrying out the assessments, recruits a hundred and thirty-five seasonal geotechnics via ASP to serve all regional branches. It's a process under way. On the occasion, because we have a problem with regard to the valuer's traffic routes in the week to come - I stress this - a specific amendment has already been agreed to address the problem of agriculture. I want to believe that this should not be used as a pretext, from their own point of view, for abstention from the assessment tasks. It solves their problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. The fact that the ELGA is not covered in too many cases is known. I told you before that the fruitage is not covered, it is not covered by hailing, frosts, it is not covered by fires. Finally, what does this ELGA cover? And you told us that if it's over 30% of the damage, it would be covered. Minister, all this, the failure of the fruits, the schinopamia, the rainfall, the messaging, the expensive supplies and the fertilizers, the VAT, the tax-paying, all together, cumulatively, have led agricultural households to impoverishment, frustration and at the same time waiting outside their door for the black cords, i.e. the big businessmen, to take them for a piece of their land, as well as their production, from which they have nourished their family, making them economical. It turns out that ELGA, not only can it satisfy the needs of the small and medium-sized farmer, but is a state mechanism of hard carving. You said you would bring some amendments along the way in order to resolve the issues, the travel and the movements of officials. But do you know this when you say it? Since December 2015! Since December 2015 you have said that you will bring amendments to the House. Somewhere you brought a bill, you went to incorporate this issue as a promise you had toward the workers and took it overnight. You'll tell me you're reselling it. We'll see. In any case, however, the Ministry's course so far says other things. In any case, this ELGA regulation needs to be changed. We are talking about a public ELGA, financed exclusively from the state budget, which covers all the losses to 100% of the small and medium-sized producers, which ensures jobs, income and covers all the movements of employees. There is one issue, Minister. Here a million acres which have been devastated for this year have still not been estimated. EUR 30 million has not been attributed from last year's estimates. Loss personalisation, too, has not been done. When is all this going to happen? What's all this personal about? Having already entered the new growing season, after having already suffered the damage, financially drained at the high cost of production, will the damage be assessed? So, in the next growing season? Then, of course, this appreciative cutaneous will begin, with the goal of never being compensated. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] ELGA is consciously dismantled, Minister, by staff, which makes it impossible to record direct damage to olive trees, all the damage suffered by all farmers throughout Greece. Your policy is therefore a policy that is loyal to the anti-agricultural policies of the European Union. You have also admitted that, if the budgetary conditions permit, producers will be compensated for the damage they have, but this budgetary policy will not end either in 2017, in 2018, or in 2020. It is a policy that applies to farmers hard, on the basis of the Common Agricultural Policy, on the basis of the European Union 2020 strategy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u21	All right, Mr. Covenant. We've exhausted the extra time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u22	Let me finish this, Mr President. It's been six months and you haven't solved the work problems. So you must immediately go ahead with resolving all these problems, so as to ensure the functioning of the ELGA as the only social security institution, financed exclusively from the state budget and to protect the interests of farmers. This way of defending their interests should be followed by small and medium-sized farmers in joint action with the workers in ELGA, in all these services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u23	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u24	Dear colleague, despite what you said, ELGA for the damages caused in 2015 on various crops in Crete has paid in 2016 to insurers, of course, compensations amounting to approximately EUR 12 million and has almost completed most of the damages in 2015 and will soon be completed at least the part of 2015. The mandatory insurance to the ELGA is in accordance with this law, which operates reciprocatingly, covering specific damage to plant production and livestock. Surely there are damages, which are not covered, we all know that. But it is absolutely necessary to amend this regulation. There is a need for a proportionate study, which will lead to a specific premium in terms of risk coverage. You, of course, take the view - and it makes sense that he does not disagree with him in particular - that the ELGA covers 100% of its public expenditure. That is what you realise that we cannot do in today's conditions. I have no problem telling you that on many of these points there are repercussions on the common agricultural policy, which is being implemented in our country. But I, because there is the great problem of incarnation in Greece, would like to stress that there are too many discussions within the Agriculture Council at this time, because the effect of the effects of climate change on agriculture is not just about us, it also concerns other countries. As you can see from a scientific document, which will be available, - we have already set up a committee, which deals with the issue of the impact of aggression especially on weather conditions and all that is related to climate change - it will be very important for the European Commission to have a decision which opens up a path to approaching this damage. However, these are not mature yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u25	Thank you. Next is the sixth under number 990/13.6.2016 up-to-date question of the second question of the MP Heraklion of the New Republic, Eleftherios Augnakis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the payment of agricultural subsidies. Is Mr. Aggenakis here? Mr. Augias isn't here. The question is therefore deleted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, can I answer a few words?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u27	Who? The one who's not present?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u28	Because it is a matter of concern to the rural world.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u29	You can't answer empty seats. We move on to the third with number 1039/24-6-2016 timely question by MP II Athens of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights about the need to change Family Law. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u30	Minister, I shall put my current question to the House in a fully polite manner, and I shall wait, in order to make the main development of the subject, your answer. I think that your presence at the Ministry of Justice on this point is the absolutely favourable condition to give a solution that has been pending for years. I absolutely trust your social sensitivity - and I have said that on several occasions - despite the fact that acute political confrontation brings us to the table several times and in a very strong way. You get it wrong, but it's not personal. It's political. You need the burdens of a party that has filled Greece for five years with lies and overcrowded, has betrayed us, danced on our honesty and on our body many times, because the preconflicts were also physical. You're indebted to this past. This past contradicts today’s practice and you are therefore paying for things for which it is not your fault. But you are the Minister who understands this - I know it from your many decades of service in university and social space - and you will find a solution. Mr President, we changed family law as PASOK in 1983, making real areas of family law. It's been thirty-three years since then. A lot of experience has been gained on this subject, which I ask, huge experience, dramatic many times, intense, hard, I can say wildly. The issue is related to child rearing, to common custody, to common parental care for children. I invoke Article 18 of the Convention on Children, which stipulates that Member States must do their utmost to ensure that children are more harmoniously reared and raised. Although it cannot be said that the provisions of family law in their grammar form create problems, legal practice and not case law - if I have to say what I mean - and the attitude of parents themselves sometimes create problems. The administration comes over these problems to give a ton of exacerbation and, ultimately, we have an insult to the rights of the child - that is the main thing, that is the core - and to everyday practice - to say it, Mr President - an insult to the father's rights in particular. Minister, we have this practice. Overcoming its negative dimension will be done by the legislator. The legislator will thus define his law, even though this is difficult, so as to allow the lawmaker to give the right solutions. I don't know if you're a father. It's me. I do not know if you have relevant social experiences from people in the problem. It is many times, especially when you meet with an institution that has been created, dramatically what you hear. I think that, with the general social sensitivity that it sees you, you should give in the next few weeks a proper, serious legislative solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u31	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. I'll really be a lacquer. I won't just say it. I will speak very quickly. I understand that Mr. Loverdos considers me indebted to much of the past. I think he thinks he's not indebted to anything from the past. I shall now proceed to the debate on his question, which is indeed serious. The Department of Family Law, which took place in 1983, was of historic importance. And when I say it was of historical importance, I mean the size of centuries, counting over centuries the change. Of course, there has been an experience so far which requires us to see family law again, I believe, not for such radical changes, but for some corrections. What is right is that interest primarily can only be related to children. What the current Ministry has done is to set up a committee of international professors from the University of Thessaloniki for the processing of issues of family law. This committee, however, does not have the object of seeing family law as a whole, namely, the entire chapter of the Civil Code on Family Law, but at the moment, looking at some of the issues that are fragmented. First, he looked into the question of the cohabitation agreement, which is of course about family law. It will deal with issues relating to gender, adoption, and perhaps in the end we will reach a comprehensive review of family law by extending the working time and the subject matter of this committee. It is clear that a change in family law cannot be made quickly, because it must be careful, study many elements and be time-resilient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u34	Mr Minister, first of all, I would like to say a word on the more general point which you have raised and which you have answered. Obviously, each one of us has his way to politics. In the years of crisis, Minister, I handled three ministries, which are supposed to be the most difficult or the worst in politics, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Education, the "fires" of a government, especially in a time of crisis, and I put my best efforts. I faced hatred, faced preconflicts, faced lies, faced demagogues, which life proved to be all of this. I'm proud of what I did. I want you to be proud, too, when you finish your course at the Justice Department. The political history of the place shows this, but also the impression of the people we are living in this particular political and social environment. We'll see what they'll say about you. For me, however, what was said at the political level was that I put my strengths and my relationships with the electorate...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u35	Aren't we going to the question?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u36	No, no, I will answer as I wish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u37	Answer in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u38	I have been elected since these hot issues have been handled on several occasions. I have the answer. There is an answer to your question and I described it to you. I have now raised a very specific issue of Family Law, a very specific issue for which an effort has been made in the 2000s to revise the relevant law, which has not been implemented. Your answer concerns the whole question of family law and the relative effort you will make to give some solutions. I talked about something very special, about something that can't wait for, and I asked a timely question. If there was any possibility of time being given and of answering a thorny matter - and legally thorny - he would say right to you. But here we have an urgent need. It's being raped every day in people's homes. I think it has been in contact with the competent body that has been set up, with the association that is relevant. I distinguished myself from the rest of the issues one, and I asked you about that. The practice of administration and justice, the arguments of lawyers, parental discomfort, parental controversy, the cruelty of related antagonisms and fighting in front of the child are often so intense that the rights of the child are insulted. And as I said in my first place, this practice at second level particularly affects the rights of the father. The complaints, the objections, the reproach which we have received - I said in my first place - go beyond the limits of tension, go to the limits of cruelty and bourgeoisie, Minister. Your answer can't be so cool. I'd like something more specific if you have. If in this respect it has not taken a great deal of action, you can tell me. But in this case, I want my intervention to be the reason for seeing it more carefully. Will you go overall, in conclusion, to finish, or do you have the impression that it's worth going especially on this subject at a faster rate?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u39	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u40	Mr President, I am not going to comment on it, of course, because it is not a matter for the debate. I am going directly to answer that question. I believe that the particular issue raised by the honourable Member is very important. I would say that it is socially urgent, because we have open problems in Greek society. On the other hand, it cannot be dealt with briefly, because it is a systemic issue. The relationship between the spouses and their relationship with the child is the central theme of Family Law, which cannot be sorted out in detail. That is why my first answer was focused on the course of the overall review of family law, which in any case has as its object the relations between the spouses and their relationships with the child. What I can promise Mr. Loverdo is that we will do as quickly as possible, not faster.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u41	Thank you. Before we move to the next question, I'm announcing to the House...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u42	Do you have any direction in this respect?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u43	But isn't the answer over? Mr. Loverdo, this is not a seminar. It's a question and answer. It has even responded satisfactorily to you, if you would like me to say that. The fifth, under No. 1041/24-2016, a topical question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Independent Greeks Mr. George Lazarides to the Minister for the Environment and Energy concerning the examination of a successful examination of the energy inspectors will not be discussed due to a workload of the relevant Minister, Mr. Panos Skourletis. The second question, under number 1043/246/2016, of the second question of the MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr.Ioannis Maniotis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the pre-nomination of tragic developments in the field of electricity production, will not be discussed for the same reason. The question under number 1047/27-2016 of the Second Cycle of the Greek Communist Party of Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Delis, to the Ministers for Education, Research and Religion and Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning measures for the education of refugees, will not be discussed due to the unsettled obligations of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr. Friend. Next, the seventh question under number 945/3-6-2016 is a topical question by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister for Foreign Affairs about 'the ongoing Albanian challenges'. Mr. Panayotus, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. A few days ago, we saw the visit of the Foreign Minister, Mr Kotzia, to Albania, a visit which took place just after the provocative statements by Albanian Prime Minister Eddie Rama on the issue of the Chamadas. This is an organized plan, which everyone is aware of, from the point of view of Albanians, with the help of the Turks, of course, who are also their crusaders, to create a new front inside our country with the Champids. After these unacceptable statements by the Prime Minister himself and "events" of the Chamadas had been preceded, instead of Mr Kotzias delaying the journey by denouncing this unacceptable attitude, he went and became all witnesses of unacceptable behaviours and actions, organized by Albania. A few dozen Chamies - we do not know whether they were Chameleons or not - outside the space where the Greek Minister for Foreign Affairs was, with slogans, with voices, trying to get close to the car, derailed Mr Kotzias. If Mr. Kotzias wants to be humiliated, that doesn't matter at all. The problem is that together with Mr Kotzias the institution of the Greek Foreign Minister and Greece was also humiliated. We would like you to tell us what you have in mind - if you have - to do, because it is not just those unacceptable actions which have taken place in recent weeks. We see a coordinated and organised plan. We see the attempt to protect the Greek properties in Himara, which is done on the pretext of forced expropriations, in order - he says - to make a regeneration of the area. However, they are fully organised, because you know the facts, perhaps, better than us. Everything shows that they protect property from Greeks and give it to Albanians, to their own people, in order to do business. We see incidents that have to do with the religious mind of the orthodox. You know too well, not to hide behind our finger, that wherever Orthodox in Albania, he is a Greek Northcontinent in the overwhelming majority. Here I would like to read an unacceptable answer to a simple written question which we had tabled on some issues that had arisen with a church-orthodox temple in Tirana. We read the Foreign Ministry's answer: 'It is in the framework of Albanian legislation'. We, in other words, have nothing to do with the hundreds of thousands of Orthodox people who are in the Albanian territory and who could well be part of the Greek territory as part of the Northern Epirus. There is also a system of autonomy, which is not respected by anyone, of course, and much more. We had evidence of fraud in the elections, which took place, at the expense of the Greek minority and the combinations that existed in them. We have the incident with the AEZ, which, while there was an agreement between Greece and Albania, following the encouragement of the Turks, of course again, Eddie Rama himself got the signature back and says incredible things. The institutionalised maritime borders are questioned in substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Panayotus, you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u46	We could talk for half an hour even say things. I would like to end with the excruciations of the Albanians at the expense of the Greeks, the fact that they are mocking and mocking us literally with the near nine thousand unspeakable Greek heroes of World War II, who cannot be buried. The Albanians do not allow the construction of military cemeteries and their last excuse is that there were no metallic military identities to know that they were soldiers and were not private. These are unacceptable and ridiculous things for which Greece should have taken many measures. We would finally like to know what you intend to do with the enthusiasm and provocation of the Albanians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u47	Mr. Amanatidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Papoutsis, in reply to your question, I would like to say that the positions we have as a Ministry of Foreign Affairs about the wide range of positions you have in your question are well-established and well-known and we have set them out in detail - and I personally - in a series of recent parliamentary questions, as you said about the Greek dead in Epic in 1940. I will of course not reply to them because I have answered and refer you there for more information. With regard to the criticism that has been made, I would like to mention that simply critical and lacking constructive proposals are not sufficient to effectively integrate the problems faced by the Greek national minority into a wider international context and thus make clear criteria for Albania's European integration, as we have put it. The continued emergence of weaknesses must be accompanied by a consistent and active policy to eliminate factors which, of course, can hamper Albania's effective approach to the European Union. This is in terms of criticism in relation to the Foreign Minister's trip to Albania. We see in this light, namely that we have every interest in eliminating the scope for bilateral relations with the neighbouring country, with the aim of serving the important common interests of the two countries and promoting regional cooperation. In view of this, we will continue to promote consistently and concrete actions so that the stability and security of the region, as well as the development of the region, through the establishment of good neighbourliness and respect for the basic principles of the international legal order and, above all, through the full integration of European countries into European and Atlantic institutions, are established. In this context, our country will always be present in developments, ready to defend effectively, both its sovereign rights and the issues it sees as national at bilateral and European level. I would also like to assure you that Greece is closely following the situation of the Greek national minority throughout Albania and emphasises at every opportunity that full respect for the rights of the minority and the implementation of the Albanian side's commitments and obligations is the barometer of our bilateral relations, but also the criterion for Albania's European path, in so far as our country is in line with the relevant decisions of the European Union. I think my last abstention is more than clear and I have developed it in the previous questions I have answered. I'll come back to my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Panayotarus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. We are constantly observing an Albanian-led policy and tactic as to whether our country is ready. You know very well that it is in good cooperation with Turkey, which is patronising apart from Albania and Skopje. You know that and we don't have to tell you. The fact that we're watching closely something, I don't think he's saying a lot of things when we're not doing anything at all. He knows the whole world that Albania along with Kosovo and a part of Skopje are a jihadist production tank, which they send to all the lengths and backs of the Earth. This is something that has started since the beginning of the 1990s and, of course, Greece has not seen much of it. We see that diligently you and your predecessors do not refer at all to the terminology "North Epirus" and "North Epirus", which is the real and normal terminology for the population residing in the part of South Albania. Also, we do not see in the patronage of your weapons using at all that there is some form of autonomy, which is, of course, inappropriate to substance. We could have mobilised and activated several previous conditions again. We have seen that the Albanians are continuing in an organized manner, for example, with a banner at the EURO which is currently taking place in France, which was not an isolated and random incident but a very well organized incident. We know that in their school books, as all our neighbours do, they teach what they want to teach, which has nothing to do with reality, but it has nothing to do with what Greece has signed with them. We, on our part, remove everything from our books that may affect our neighbors, but our neighbors are writing - and even increasing what they say - to the detriment of our countryside. We see official maps from the Albanian state showing that 'Great Albania' reaches somewhere outside Arta and we do not react to all of this at all. The weapon that we are constantly using - and it is our justification - for the European integration of a country - whether Albania or Turkey - should probably change it, because until Albania's European integration becomes, it is most likely that there will be no united Europe, as it does. So you need to find other weapons - negotiation I mean - to use to deal with Albanians' provocation. We are constantly listening to the terminology 'good neighbours, cooperation with our neighbours'. When we know that some of our neighbors are proven enemies of our country, and that doesn't change, trying to make an ostrich, putting the head in the sand, saying they're good neighbors doesn't change things. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I will tell you something last - after all, Minister - to understand how some people understand it and how they honor not only their heroes dead, but also others who fought for them, in our homeland, in Greece, there is a grand monument that has been paid and paid and which has been created by the Republic of Korea for the hundreds of Greeks who fell into the Korean war and every year there is a particularly honorary event on the part of Korea. At the same time, in their home country, in Busan, there is a grand monument and there for the Greeks who fought in Korea. We prove that we are few, very few, and when we say "we" we mean the new Greek state, this fake, which since 1940, after the end of World War II, has not at last taken care to build, build the military cemeteries for these heroes, which everyone invokes. Everyone goes to events for 1940, but basically they do nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u51	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u52	Mr Papoutsis, the Government's response to the issues you have mentioned, such as the suspension of the banner, as well as statements and statements, which, of course, are inconsistent with mutual respect, nor are they prerequisites for building the good relations that we must have, I think, always - especially in the last case - immediate, decisive and at all levels, both with the letter of the Secretary-General, Mr Contony, and with the protest that has been made. As regards, of course, public positions of extremist elements in Albania which often touch the limits of pheasyness, I think that they should not be commented on or worthy of comment, as it is more than obvious that they represent only a minimal minority of the Albanian people. On the other hand, of course, the statements and choices of people from the central political scene that refer to the rhetoric of the past, unfortunately, do not go hand in hand with this climate of confidence that we want to maintain and deepen. However, let me say that as a government we do not shape our foreign policy on the basis of the psychology or feasibility of the moment, but on the basis of a concrete plan and on the sole basis of the nation's time-consuming interests. The question of developing extreme political trends in Albania, particularly if these are directed against Greece or the Greek minority, believe me, is high on our agenda in every bilateral contact with the Albanian side. We are trying to find ways to reverse this climate that is burdening us. For example, the official visit of the Minister of Foreign Affairs to Albania was sent in all ways and in all places. The signing of a new Friendship Pact between Greece and Albania, which expires in 2018. It has been agreed to draw up a roadmap for the resolution of bilateral outstandings with committees meetings at the level of technical and general secretaries, which we expect to be completed by the end of 2016 or 2017. This initiative is, of course, combined with critical developments in Albania's European path. In any case, for the Greek national minority, we believe that respect for its rights is inextricably linked to Albania's European course and perspective. Of course, it cannot in any way go hand in hand with an old bourgeois inspiring policy with minority areas which the neighbouring country had. We have also expressed our concerns at the highest level - and not just our concerns - about the alleged violations of the rights of members of the minority, especially in the coastal areas of Albania. In any case, believe me that it is high on our agenda and we are not just watching much of what you have mentioned in your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u53	Thank you. Before we move to the next question, I would like to inform the House that the fourth question under number 104/24-6-2016 will not be discussed with regard to the Greek government's extrajudicial compromise with Siemens, due to a workload of the Minister of Finance. Also, the twelfth question under number 961/7-2016 by MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Athanasios Vardalis to the Finance and National Defence Ministers on the Greek Vehicle Industry (ELVO SA).), it will not be discussed. Furthermore, the first question under number 4375/304/31-3-2016 will not be discussed - an application for the submission of documents by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP for Athens, New Democracy, Nikita Kaklamani, to the Minister of Finance, on the financial size of the contract with Kim Glen. The second under number 3062/10/10/2016 question by the Independent MEP Lakonias Leonida Gregorakos to the Minister of Finance on compensation for the share of cooperative banks, will also not be discussed. In the absence of the relevant foreign ministers, the second question under number 1037/24-6-2016 will not be discussed with regard to the financing of the work of the Heraklion - Messara road axis. Also, the first question under number 1038/24-6-2016 will not be discussed, with regard to the construction of the Florina - Ptolemais road line, for the second time. We will now move on, as we said in the sixth half of the year under number 1008/15-6-2016, a topical question by the Member of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the annulment of the provisions abolishing the EASA and bringing about losses to the income of thousands of pensioners. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the pensioners had a big shock yesterday when they saw a large amount missing from their pension from their retirement. Imagine what the micro-retired people would have to do if they were to see the ESS now available, because, as you say, there were technical problems. However, it will be retained retrospectively as from 1 January. But what is the purpose, Minister, of this separation? I am a little off the question, because it is very topical, but at the same time it is the same. Is that what has been written that pensioners will receive 11 supplementary pensions for 2016 rather than 12? Or do you... You're laughing, but retired people are crying. Or is it the aim of pensioners to get used to the fact that the subsidiary is not a single part of the pension, since the State has only the primary pension and something that may not exist tomorrow because of the zero deficit clause? I mention these because they are timely and concern thousands of pensioners, all pensioners, and we want along with the question of what we are doing today about the abolition of the CSCE, which affects all pensioners, especially the small pensioners. It is known that losses from 2016 to 2019 will be EUR 2.4 billion for them. But, Minister, the issue is this: in 2015 the limit for someone to get the EASA was EUR 15,380 family income. You did it 11,000 euros, so that those who have family incomes 11,000 euros each year have serious consequences, especially those who are couples. Because if each year has EUR 5 508, then the two together will have EUR 11,016 and both lose an annual income of EUR 5,520. I think that the consequences of this arrangement are tragic and we are asking what you are doing to cancel these arrangements which, if you want, have this effect, the great losses to the incomes of thousands of pensioners and especially those of the couples mentioned above, where the two together may have more than EUR 11.00 annual income. We would like your answers on that, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Petersburg, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Of course it is paradoxical to follow, Mr Katsotis, the recipe of the 'Free press', which, with the headlines today, refers to the transfer by two days for technical reasons - because the banking system has proved to have not lifted all payment procedures, both for main and supplementary pensions on the same day - of these payments on the second working day of the month. That doesn't mean loss, it's simple logic. What pension loss do you claim there is? The "Free Press" claims that the twelve pensions will become eleven. These absurdities, in which opposition passion and hatred for SYRIZA have led some people, I did not expect you to adopt them. That's why I got drunk, I didn't laugh. I'm not happy to see you support such perceptions. I was surprised, I did not expect you, a spokesman of the Communist Party, to resort to such unrealistic, self-proved liars. So, do not invoke - because I did not expect this from you - a sign that went to what you said, which was caused by my surprise, saying that I am pleased about the situation of pensioners. I hear that from other wings, don't listen to them from you. We are not happy with the situation of retired people. Indeed, what we are doing is creating conditions for the development of particularly low pensions. In 1996, I would say, the CSCE was invented. And if you see what followed just after August 1996, which entered this vote, we had elections. Because then the previous governments did not want to solve the problem of pensioners by strengthening low pensions, but they wanted, as for a number of other social issues, to keep them hostage through a concept of charity. The ESS was an allowance, it wasn't a pension! So, in our new systems, we are strengthening low pensions. The lowest of them is 120%, the highest there is. I have to say - unfortunately, because time is little on such a huge subject - some points where misinformation prevails. I do not mean that there was no reduction in the pensions received, because the ESS was missing. That's what happened, but we have to explain why it happened. The logic attached to the initial implementation of the CSR since 1996 was that any pensioner who was over sixty-five years old should be able to complete his pension income in order to reach the average of the minimum income for the citizens at that time in 1996. With the reduction in the current year, in 2016, the average income was then EUR 5,208 and the low pension that had to be strengthened with the CSR was EUR 3,923. Today is EUR 7,680 the average and the lowest pensioners are about EUR 7,767. A vast difference that was covered as a justification with the CSCE today does not exist as a reason for the CSCE. This does not mean that this is the right solution, that these people lose their share of income. However, I am explaining the technical features and structures of a system that has suffered and we must correct. We have adopted 1-1-2019 that pension replacements will be strengthened through growth, which we believe will have through GDP. It is dependent on this objective, and we must achieve it. We must do all our power to develop the productive potential that this country can have. I shall then be waiting for the floor, Mr President. For as long as you give me any time, I can explain, however, if you are judging that I have to have more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the Parliament is organized and operated, thirteen students from the International Centre for Greek and Mediterranean Studies. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u58	Minister, you blamed the banking system. But wasn't it your decision for the subsidiary to be deposited every other day of next month? So why are you saying that the banking system is responsible? And you have not responded to the second 'whether'. Should pensioners become accustomed to the fact that the part of the subsidiary that does not have the State's guarantee will be reduced until it is abolished, given that there is a zero deficit clause? On the subject of the ESS, Minister, you say that the ESS was invented for customer reasons and gave it in 1996 - or at any time you said that they gave it - to win the elections and that, in any case, you are correcting something that has been done and which should not have been done. What do you mean? Remove the ESS and say otherwise you will complete the loss. With who? You're saying the replacement amount will be higher for the micro-retired. So tell me if a pensioner with 5,508 euros will lose and his wife has 5,508 euros. Yes or no? And tell me, then, what a replacement will be for those who lose the year 5,520 euros. Answer that, since you have, then, made the advances. For these two micro-retired people, what will be the cover for the losses? Of the EUR 5,520 that will waste the time, what is the replacement? Look, Minister, you can't lie once, twice and three times. You said you wouldn't reduce pensions. And today, retired people see missing from their wallet what is necessary to survive. And today you are lying that you are going to make up for this annulled NSA by the micro-retired. But you don't say how. What rate of replacement, when the pension calculation, as you adjusted it by the last law, provides for hunger pensions for all, cuts from 15% to 30%? We've been talking about this in the insurance bill and you can't say anything else about it. You have no further argument, when you go to the sixty-seven years around the world for retirement, and when it takes forty years of work, with this working jungle that exists here today in our country. So, what are you talking about in the world today? What replacement are you going to make? We therefore say that this regulation abolishing the CSCE should be abolished and you should get it back. The micro-retired people and the pensioners in total will not compromise. You know that they are very alive and will be on the way, like workers, because they are not compatible with this law - looting - with that insurance that, if you want, leads workers to lose their safety in total and to have hunger pensions and cannot survive.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Petropoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u60	Mr Kattotis, those who are never compromised and will not reconcile with the needs that need to be met are us. And there is no way to compromise with this situation in which the poor people in the country find themselves. And we don't agree in any way. This is evidenced by the care we are taking to support and care and all the measures we take at the level of the humanitarian crisis. We've been judged for that. In this measure no one can tell us anything at all. However, I see that you like to follow the other hips, 'be lie, you are liars'. Well you do, if you're finally going to adopt all the code of the Right, which for you is rival otherwise. You unite with her, so you can hit us. In the end, history will record the consequences of this choice. I didn't expect that either.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u61	It's the right-hand laundry!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u62	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u63	So listen. First of all, I did not say that the low pensioners were wrongly paid. What I said was that it was a mechanism that kept the low-pensioners hostage. They were given an allowance instead of measures to strengthen social security to help the lowest. The social security system which helps low-pension workers, those who are most in need, is creating it today. We're giving the rules. I imagine that all this time, you too would hear that we were accused of being intensified by high incomes, in order to stimulate creativity, that we are strengthening low incomes and motivating lazy ones. That's what we heard. Anyway, is this happening or not? Indeed, it is not because we are strengthening the lazyness, but because the social security system should strengthen those who have the greatest social weakness. That's what's happening. This is a temporary situation with the ESS. It's real. I don't want to fix things, nor does our government want to hide the truth. But this is a well-known subject. Why are all suddenly surprised? Is it not a matter of abolishing the CSCE? It was an old demand and an old commitment from the previous governments. They were committed to abolishing it. It now came after an agreement that they agreed in August 2015 and is being implemented in this way. We have taken those measures, with which we will be able to reverse the situation, in order to bring about an improvement in the adjustments so that there are no major and negative effects on the world. You will allow me to say two examples, which may not matter, but I will tell them about those who claim that this system could be sustainable, as it was with the CSCE. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u64	What I told you, ask. What about the losses? How are you going to cover them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u65	Give me two minutes then, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u66	Go ahead, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u67	With 4,500 brands, fifteen years of insurance and average wages 700 euros, it receives an organic pension of 300 euros. Who's to understand these numbers, of course! But you know them, to see that you have to be a little more careful. It receives a minimum pension of EUR 487 and an NCA of EUR 230. With fifteen years of insurance, that is, she was receiving a total of EUR 717. This pension amount was taken by someone who had twice as much insurance time as 8,700 brands and 1,400 average earnings, or double pay. We're talking about the same pension. So this is a distortion. It's not an equivalency. It doesn't work. It is the result of this subsidised logic, which held retired people hostage. That's what I said before. I didn't say they were poorly reinforced. I am now explaining the example that these people get what they get. Poor thing! They had to take it through another social security system, which should be structured in the way we now structure it in order to produce these results. Someone who was receiving a pension of 663 euros is on P.S.A. Someone who gets 665 euros, doesn't get NSA. We are talking about this 2,5 euro difference. The first one will get more 2,760 euros a year, the other less because it took 2.5 euros more. This has always been the case. This is absurd and led someone to prefer to be only fifteen years insured. You know very well where this was going. It was in the construction industry. Where unemployment was to be strengthened, it was completely changing direction and there was a current and movement against social security, a loss of social security and the interests of workers. So we need to stop and talk about what system we are creating and how we will strengthen the economic bases and reserves of social security, which are not there. And that's our responsibility to do it. We're starting with this. We moved on to a structural change, based on pension calculation. We are strengthening the national pension that we will always receive through growth. And through this process, from 1-1-2019, we will start to make a better political implementation of the positive effects of social security, which we have structured and established. You should not say that the main and supplementary pension benefits are not guaranteed by the State. The law expressly states it, unequivocally and celebrityly, all pensions are guaranteed by the state. So, and in that, again, you are not telling the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u68	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u69	Mr President, give me the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u70	Mr Katsotis, after answering the question now, you have no reason to speak. We'll recycle the question now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u71	I need a minute. I'd be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u72	It can't be done. It'll be recycled. The Minister will ask after the speech and we will not finish it. There's nothing coming out that way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u73	You are not provided for in the Rules of Procedure to speak again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u74	All right, Mr. Mada! But it can't tell us it's the builders who didn't have more than four and a half thousand marks, and the employer and manufacturers are unavoidable! So here's what the left concept is!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u75	In the absence of Mr Katrugalos abroad, the fifth question under number 989/13-6-2016 will not be discussed with regard to the second question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the New Democracy Mr. Catherine Papakostas - Ironropoulou to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the harmonisation of the procedures for the repayment of third-party loans to private-sector families with public-private families. Nor will the ninth question be discussed under number 914/27-5-2016 in the context of a topical question by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs on the "creating of illegal kindergartens and boarding schools in Xanthi". Also, there will be no discussion of the tenth under number 545/15-2-2016 topical question of the second Athens Parliamentary of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zarulias to the Minister of Health on the problems of operation in the EKAB. Finally, there will be no debate on the eighth under number 946/3-6-2016 topical question by MP 2 of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the "financed by Turkey through the Consulate of Komotini, on the purchase of property of desperate Greeks in Thrace". Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been concluded. Discontinue for five (5') minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We enter the supplementary agenda of LEGISLATIVE WORK Resolution of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism as a whole: ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Articles 19, 20, 29, 30, 33, 35, 40 to 46 of Directive 2013/34/EU on ‘the annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements and related business reports of certain types, amending Directive 2006/43/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Directives 78/660/EEC and 83/349/EEC’ (OJ. L 189 of 29 June 2013) and Directive 2014/95/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council (EU. L 330/1 of 15 November 2014) ‘amending Directive 2013/34/EU as regards the disclosure of non-financial information and information on the diversity of certain large enterprises and groups’ and other provisions of the responsibility of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism’. Does this House accept the bill and, as a whole, it has been distributed?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u77	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u78	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u79	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u80	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u81	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u82	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u83	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u84	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u85	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism: ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Articles 19, 20, 29, 30, 33, 35, 40 to 46 of Directive 2013/34/EU concerning ‘the annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements and related business reports of certain types, amending Directive 2006/43/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Directives 78/660/EEC and 83/349/EEC’ (OJ. L 189 of 29 June 2013) and Directive 2014/95/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council (EU. L 330/1 of 15 November 2014) ‘amending Directive 2013/34/EU as regards the disclosure of non-financial information and information on the diversity of certain large enterprises and groups’ and other provisions of the responsibility of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism’ has been accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u87	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is suspended at 12 noon.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We are returning to the supplementary agenda for the legislative work. Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: “To ratify it from 24 June 2016, amendment and codification in a single text of its 13 February 2002 Concession Convention between the Greek Government and the Piraeus Port Authority SA and other provisions”. The above bills following the decision of the Standing Parliamentary Committee on Production and Trade, on a proposal from the relevant Minister, are discussed in accordance with the urgency procedure, in accordance with Rule 76(4) of the Constitution and Rule 109 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. This procedure was also adopted by the Conference of Presidents by a majority. I would also like to remind you that, in accordance with this procedure, the debate is being concluded in principle and on the articles in a meeting. The rapporteurs and special speakers, the Prime Minister or the Minister responsible, the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, if they so wish, and one of their representatives, are involved in the debate. Their speech, if the Heads speak, is limited to half the time provided for in Rules 97 and 103 of the Rules of Procedure. Although it is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure, I propose that five speakers from SYRIZA, three speakers from New Democracy, one speaker from the People's Association - Golden Dawn, one speaker from the Democratic Alliance, one speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, one speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, one speaker from Potami, one speaker from the Independent Greeks, one speaker from the Central Association and one speaker from the Independent Members. I also propose that the debate on the principle and the articles should be uniform. As far as speaking time is concerned, I propose the following, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure: The rapporteurs and the special speakers should have twelve minutes of speaking time. The minister responsible for thirteen minutes. I read the Rules of Procedure because yesterday Mr. Vouches said that other ministers would not speak. Just because of the Rules of Procedure, I mention that the other Ministers and Ministers of State will have eight minutes, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. But that's the deal. The Prime Minister and President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and the President of the New Democracy, if they speak, will have fourteen minutes. The Presidents of the other groups, 12 minutes, the Parliamentary Representatives, 10 minutes, as appointed by the parties, seven minutes. And, as you know, dentology - there will, if they so wish - be limited to half the time of prototype. Finally, in accordance with Rule 109, the meeting shall be concluded within a maximum of 10 hours. Yesterday a decision was taken for eight hours. But in any case, seeing and doing. As far as amendments are concerned, the unanimous decision of the Conference of Presidents - I am speaking for plenary, not for those tabled yesterday in committee - were voted on and incorporated into the main body of the bill and, therefore, there is no question of this - is that in plenary they will not be tabled. The Minister has informed me that he will submit legislative improvements. I asked him to do this as soon as possible so that they could be distributed and given full knowledge. When the legislative improvements come to his hands and before he testifies, he will soon be presenting them. Despite the Rules of Procedure, I think that the parliamentary representatives or the rapporteurs from the parties on these legislative improvements, their procedure and their content, will also take their time if they so wish. First of all, before we go to the last part, do we agree, in other words, with regard to speakers, speaking times and so on?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u89	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u90	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u91	Mr President, I would also like to speak later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u92	Mr President, as a representative of the Democratic Integration and in the light of everything we have read, we have been discussing since yesterday - we were together with other colleagues who are here yesterday, at the Conference of Presidents - I would like to say to you that you have attributed in the most faithful way what was said yesterday. I do not think I should bother colleagues now, explaining some of the things you have said. If they have not been understood, we will make them understandable in the course of the debate. He had said, however, that a party might propose a roll-call vote. It would be a good thing if the Bureau knew.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u93	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u94	And we, because Mr Constantinople yesterday was expressed as it has been expressed, reserve the reservation, as to what the text we have to vote on...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u95	The reservation and the right, if any, to make denominations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u96	...and therefore the proposal for a roll-call vote, as Mr Constantinople said, for the Democratic Alliance. However, we do not agree to initiate the procedure if the Minister with the legislative initiative does not bring what you say with his official parliamentary term, but also elegant, technical improvements. Here yesterday we saw that there was another text from what has been signed. And these seven points - if my recent memory is not cheating - are not technical differences, they are fundamental differences. The National Representation cannot be hampered and debated other than others. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not discussing the alpha-government legislative initiative. We are discussing ratification of a contract, which takes the form of a draft law. The agreements and the signatories are presented to the House in order to approve them. The person who troubles these, after he signed them, mocks the House. And I am speaking as a Member of Parliament who the majority and the bourgeoisie of the legislative initiative made him laugh. We expressed a positive opinion yesterday and had been misled by the government. Will this story continue today? Are we going to say in principle that we agree, see what, see the other and come another text in the course of the debate? We haven't figured out who did this uncomfortable thing, that theft. You're battling this, Mr. President. There's nothing you can't have to do with retrospectively, something you signed up for. You're taking the responsibility of bringing it after you signed it. He said, but who am I? Is that Dragon? The homonymous film by Nikos Koundouros, obviously, that's what he meant. That's what you meant, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u97	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u98	Dragon was a drag, Mr President, and it may be one of the best Greek films. This is a comedy! It's a comedy, Mr. President! That is why, please, the parliamentary terminology says 'technical improvement', the Minister's intervention. Political ethics and a sense of honesty in this House says that, if we do not have clear what the government has signed, the debate must not continue, it must stop now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u99	Although, under the Rules of Procedure, the debate cannot begin, I will put it in plenary, Mr Lauder, if other parties put it. Mrs Kefaliannis, Mr Dannelis, Mrs Manolakos and Mr Karras have asked for the same topic. Mrs Kefaliannis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u100	Mr President, I would also like to speak later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u101	You will respond in total, Minister. Here, you have the floor, Mrs. Kefaliannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u102	Mr President, we have kept a reservation from yesterday to New Democracy on the draft law tabled by Minister Dritsa. Before we begin, however, any debate today should be made clear. There is a major issue, not only for the credibility of the country, but also essential for the investment itself. It should therefore immediately be made clear whether or not there is any involvement with the company. Because they don't fit half the accounts, they don't have any escapades. We need to be clear about what's going on. We must not forget that the bill we have for discussion and decision is ratification of an agreement, an agreement signed by Mr Dritsa. It is not an oral agreement, it is a text that is signed. We are all very well aware of the 'pacta sunt servanda', 'the agreements must be respected'. The contractor of the Minister, the contractor of the Greek State, represented by the Minister, is a company, as he said yesterday, which belongs to the Chinese State. So his partner is basically the Chinese public, where Mr. Tsipras is going tomorrow. We therefore want to be cleared up, because any alteration or breach of the terms of the agreement on your part means that the agreement is in the air and that your own unreliability cannot stigmatize the country and you cannot play with it. You cannot play, Minister, with Greece. You must answer. And here we want another answer: does Mr Tsipras know or not and, if so, what does he say about it? No, just what does he say about it, but what's going to tell the Chinese tomorrow's visit? I repeat, therefore, that you must give us an answer to this unprecedented situation, because this conflict is no longer going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u103	I will take it in the parliamentary order, after everyone has asked for the floor. Mr Rabbit has the floor from the Golden Dawn for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u104	Mr President, first of all we have to denounce the fact of how this bill comes, in urgent form. Tuesday at 23:30, we suddenly entered the committees on Wednesday, the institutions were called, without anyone being called by the Golden Dawn. This is a procedure, therefore, as the government wants to do. The worst of all, however, is that the Minister of Government brings us to discuss and read a bill of about five hundred pages, which are false. It does not go far enough, it does not go far enough for ten hours to get us into our hands, but today we will talk about another bill, because, of course, the Minister - and here we are all - will bring changes, which will make half of what we have read invalid. Because the government will drag behind the Chinese, because the government will be sliding, as it has learned to do, and will change what is in here. So what has been done by the government was not to make fun of the Chinese 'COSCO', but on the substance of the matter the Greek Parliament is mocking. And it makes fun of the Greek Parliament, because it puts it to debate on a bill, which will not apply and will not be implemented. But we will be talking here today, but we will be saying, others will be our questions, but other questions will be the answers, and in the end they will come to be voted on here tonight. That's the process. We denounce all this, we say it is unacceptable and until the process is over and see who is right, who is telling the truth and who is lying, to stop this process. To cancel today's debate until it's clear. And that's all right, let's not the Prime Minister go to China. This is the position of the Golden Dawn. Also, because we have already heard Mr Loverdos from PASOK say that they are thinking or reluctant to demand a roll-call vote, we as Golden Dawn will only ask for a roll-call vote, if we expect to see, with this mess that prevails here, what the articles, what the amendments will be, to ask for specific issues. I repeat, we denounce what is happening. We were given another bill to our hands, and what will be discussed here today will be quite different, because the government will be sliding behind 'COSCO'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u105	Mrs Manolakou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u106	Mr President, comedy has many faces. In the Chinese monopoly you have all given it as governments all and the monopoly boot does not tolerate any questioning of the privileges you give it. It requires in a cleaner and more complete way the tough conditions which you all agree on at the expense of workers, the people and the country. And the government will, of course, bring them by legislative corrections. Everything else is said is a comedy for the eyes of the world. I have asked to speak on this point: Mr President, one amendment is a mini bill. There must be a time tolerance so that we can express ourselves. It contains a lot of things. In other words, we agree, we disagree in other ways, and it must seem in a clear way...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u107	You mean the ones that have already been incorporated.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u108	I'm talking about the two ministerialmen who were testified.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u109	Yeah. They've been incorporated into the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u110	We want a tolerance, because there are a lot of problems and issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u111	Mr President, you said that they would not bring any amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u112	Mrs Manolaku means the ones that have already been incorporated. It's just one of them's long and asked for a tolerance of time. Mr. Danellis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President. Its letter 'COSCO' last night, when it was served to us, as we were discussing in the committee responsible for ratification, left us inconsistent because it has not been repeated - I imagine - anywhere in the world, a company that is compatible with the Greek State to question the credibility and honesty of the government and not just the government, but also of Greece. Whether it is a question of naivety or a question of expulsion, that is indifferent, because an incalculable damage has already been created to the credibility of Greece and every prospective investor is, of course, fleeing. Especially today, with the climate in the real economy being a climate of collapse, taking the form of avalanche, you realize how critical the creation of an uninvested climate is. We do not want to question the honesty of the Greek Government, but because, unfortunately, the facts disprove us in this desire, Minister, that is why we want guarantees that the debate that is about to begin has started. Because what kind of contract are we going to ratify if one of the contracting parties does not recognise the contract it has signed, following negotiations with the Greek Government? So, if today's debate and the vote on the ratification of this convention are to come about, the convention must exist, both contracting parties must recognise it. If we have no guarantee of this mutual recognition, I think, Mr President, that the continuation of the sitting is unnecessary.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u114	Mr Papachristopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u115	Mr President, I would like to remind you of what negotiation means until the last minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u116	What we're living in here!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u117	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u118	I don't justify anyone. Wait for me to finish and then draw your conclusions. Allow me, then, to say this: some people considered this as a pretext - it is very important - that debt is sustainable. So no one has negotiated this. This view cost the Greek economy over the last four years - paying 27%, 28%, 29% and 33% -103 billion annually. Others considered that debt is not viable and went to the table. I don't justify anyone. I think we're talking the same language. The Minister's here. I honor the Minister. If it's really something that's predetermined and then the circumstances have changed or I don't know what...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u119	Nothin'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u120	Mr. Loverde, allow me. The Minister is present and he is not hiding - I think - and he can answer and I expect to hear him. It's another thing, and it's another thing if you're trying to improve some conditions by the last minute. I sincerely expect to hear Thodoris Dritsa be placed, but I imagine that the parliamentary order here says that Parliamentary representatives will be heard first and then the Minister will be heard. I hear extremist expressions that I do not have. I repeat: if something really is pre-determined and changes and it is the Minister's responsibility, it is here to tell us, but if it is negotiated by the last minute, it also has the opportunity to speak and say so. I have nothing more to say. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u121	Mr. Karras from the Centroon Association has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u122	I'll make two introductory, brief remarks. It is a concession contract, which means that the exercise of a public service is granted to a third party. The second point is that the bill is not only ratification of a concession agreement, but it has provisions of formal law from Article 2 et seq., which require too many discussions and clarifications. Thirdly, it is the first law - at least as far as I know - that comes to ratify a public service concession in this House after Law No.4336/2015, which concerns the so-called third memorandum. The presence of Greece at the moment, Mr President, and I am not speaking of the government alone - has been disturbed by those who Greece wants to call on them to invest in order to enable the economy to turn back, to take a step forward, to start again. I therefore believe that the way in which we are discussing this legislation today is inadequate, incomplete and incomplete. I would also like to say about the repatriation of Mr Dritsa, who yesterday brought some other arrangements. That's what's been revealed. I was not a member of the Committee on Production and Trade, but they realised that there were differences between the contract signed and the draft law which brings for ratification. As far as I understand from today's news, things will be restored. The way in which it was decided, Mr President, in a meeting, in a few hours' time, to vote on this piece of legislation, is not only about Members or Parliament. In the next stages, similar issues will be raised. There's been a superstition. All the public property was granted. Other rights will be granted. H.I.E.L.D. is racing. All of this and the way you legislate show an anguish, in view of the Prime Minister's visit, and this anguish is at the expense of the country now. We cannot, at the pressure of time, decide whether or not to ratify Parliament, or whether to approve the additional provisions, or whether to approve the amendments which are coming, while we said that the draft law would not have any amendments. I already have two in my hands that we need to read and we need to discuss them. It gives a bad image of the country abroad, weakens its negotiating capacity. We don't have any negotiating skills. I think that the government must now weigh these things, because it is not only the closure of holes, but we must also be proud of the Greek people, so that it can meet the daily obligations imposed on them by these memoranda policies, by the change in tax laws, by the change in insurance laws. It is a shame, Mr President, to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u123	Mr Kamatos has the floor on behalf of SYRIZA, and then I will give the floor to the Minister in order to answer the complaints. Here, Mr Kamaterre, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u124	Mr President, if I understood correctly, so far the debate has taken place on the subject. It was not a point of order. I think that's not foreseeable. Of course you know the Rules of Procedure very well. And Mr. Loverdos knows him very well. Does he raise an issue of unconstitutionality?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u125	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u126	So how do we prejudge the debate? Let's talk and see. So by a letter we're going to cancel the House? I don't think it's foreseen from anywhere. We must move on to our positions. We will be placed on the substance, not before the debate begins. That's a little early.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u127	As you can see, the Minister will take a little longer, because he must answer to all of you. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am accustomed to trying, at least when I speak officially, to have every word of it and its gravity. I'll try to do the same now. I spoke to the committee yesterday and gave answers, I think, very clear. And what was not clear here, we can make that clear even more. A great deal has already been said, with the legitimate justification, which I accept, that there is time pressure and that is why no one can get full of approaches. That's justifiable. However, none of the points of view have been taken into account in the reply I gave yesterday to the committee, which is in the Minutes. Nor did the public debate take account of this answer via television and radio stations. That is why, while I could, I chose with a communication yesterday not to participate in this dialogue, but to keep the opportunity to address Parliament only today, so that there can be precisely the possibility of evaluating the data here. What's the data? The text of the concession contract, which is to amend the existing concession contract between the Greek State, the two joint ministries of ministries and Finance and Shipping - and the PPA S.A. on the other hand, this changed, differentiated concession document, was, as was drawn up in December 2015 in its final form, a posted text on which the competitive process was conducted. So, despite the fact that it had not yet been signed by the co-legislative ministers and by the President of the PPA SA, which has just happened a few days ago - this is a very binding text, since on this basis the competitive process has been carried out. Unless, consensually with the declared concessionaire from the competitive process, the Greek State proceeds to further consultation and consensus procedures. The text of the concession is indeed binding and no change can be made to it. The same text of the concession, however, stipulates that, when the first phase of the transfer of shares, which was completed, which was done in a fascinating manner in the Maghreb and the Zappeion, when the procedure of the Court of Auditors, its decision and any objections were finalised, etc., when the conclusion of the conclusion and the report by the Competition Committee, which took place just a few days ago, then there was a new stage and there was a final opinion of the Competition Committee - which is why we were not able to bring it up earlier, and that is why it now necessarily comes in the form of an urgency - so when these are completed, without delay, it says the binding concession agreement, the Government will bring Parliament, for adoption and ratification of the Act, which will also include the concession text. The ruling law, in fact, existed in the announced annexes to the concession plan as a draft legislative law, agreed at that time between the tenderers and the TIAD, because it was a technical text, indicative of directions and intentions, between the TIADED, which was responsible for conducting the tender procedure and the tenderers. Finally, he was one of the contestants. However, the concession agreement - and I said yesterday to the committee - says the following very clear things: in paragraph 1.3, since it says exactly what I said to you, namely that the Greek State will submit 'incomplete' to Parliament this Convention for ratification, it is stated that 'the PPA recognises and accepts that (a) the provisions of the legislative law, which will enter into force, are subject to technical and legal processing and which is highly likely to undergo significant processing before they are presented to the Greek Parliament, as part of the legislative procedure provided for in the Greek Republic's Constitution, (b) respectively, the Greek State does not provide any assurance that all or part of the draft legislative law will finally enter into force in the precise form provided for in Annex 1.1.a', that is what I said to you as a draft legislative law. Full competence, agreed, within the concession contract, contractual. Mutual agreement that this is the sovereign right of the Government and Parliament of the Greeks: the final formulation of the sovereign law is evidently understood not by provisions that are contrary to the substance and to the letter of the provisions of the concession. Obviously. So when the government at this late time dealt with the process of finalising the text of the sovereign law, it did not really change anything. This text used as a basis. However, not the Ministry of Shipping, but the General Secretariat of the Government - and the Legal Services and the General Secretariat of the Government, as always in all the bills in their final phase and final processing - on the basis of no political, no contractual, no other criterion, but on the basis of sound and good legality, it has actually made a number of changes, which have nothing to do with a breach of agreed terms and rules, no relationship to overthrowing, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u129	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u130	I want the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u131	Calm down, ladies and gentlemen. He's talking. You don't want answers? Calm down!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u132	Please don't give the explanations? Shouldn't I give the explanations? Two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u133	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u134	I shall conclude, Mr President. Indeed, we can, if you like, deal more thoroughly and explain to you what kind of variations these were. I am sure that, in particular, colleagues who are legal will be involved - perhaps even creatively - in such a debate, but it will take us a long time to analyse one of them. In any case, these changes, in the government's judgement, were neither made to overthrow agreedly nor to violate agreements or anything. Indeed, these changes, just as the practice followed so far - because the TIADE was the technical consultant and the competition manager - were sent to the TIADE, they did not suddenly come. No move was made by the government in the mosquitoes. They were forwarded to the GOI, which has continuous contact with the tenderers and subsequently with the concessionaire. They didn't happen to surprise anyone, they didn't do to hide anything. They took place within the context of the logic of proper legislature on the benefit not only of the public but also of the concessionaire. That was the logic. Yesterday the committee was proposed by colleagues from other parties to the hearing to call the company, 'COSCO'. It wasn't common. However, it was accepted. 'COSCO' did not come, as other bodies came, and instead sent this letter, which it also gave to the public.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u135	Minister, you have to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u136	I will not judge it, precisely because I respect both our moments and our agreements and the prospects for developing our relations with China and many other things. I won't judge her, but you can judge this as a move. All of this could, if there was a legal view, leave legal gaps or margins to be overturned, I would be happy to address them in this area of the legal services of the Government's Secretariat with clear will, with good faith and without any question. All this manipulation is coming out in this philology here, that the government is supposedly abrupt, allegedly violating, supposedly not respecting the agreements.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u137	Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u138	I'm closing, Mr. President. As you have already announced, because I had informed you, at the moment it is a series of treatments, which can legally solve these issues, in the context of good legislature, without leaving any gaps for misinterpretations or such confrontations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u139	Mr President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u140	Mr. Loverdo, calm down. I didn't give you the floor. Sit down, please. I won't allow anyone!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u141	I would also like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, twelve Greek American students from the American Hellenic Institute. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Before I give a minute to Mrs Kefaliannis, who asked for the floor as rapporteur, and then to Mr Loverdos for a minute, I would remind the younger people - because the older people know it - that this is not the first time that any legislative improvements to bills have been tabled and that the procedure is not interrupted in the face of the deposit of the legislators.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u143	It's a penalty!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u144	Irrespective. You weren't, Mrs. Bakoyannis. Mr. Loverdos said don't start the meeting. I would like to answer that, otherwise, on the substance of the matter, I agree with you. Secondly, the Minister made it clear what I said from the outset that they will be tabled in time until the night when we are going - at 22.00 p.m. or 23.00 p.m. - they will all have the opportunity to see the legislative improvements at which they are at the level. Thirdly, Mr Minister, you should inform the House as soon as possible about what time the legislative improvements will be tabled, which may also reduce the situation. Mrs Kefaliannis or Mr. Dendias has the floor for a minute. Which one of you wants to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u145	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u146	I put two minutes on everyone. Here, Mr. Dendia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u147	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, excuse me. We here - first of all, I am referring to the abstraction of our own, but I think I am almost the overwhelming majority of this House - have been in an absolute mood to help the government in voting on this legislation. We did not raise the issues of urgency or any other matter. It is obvious that this is not a joint company but a commercial manifestation of the activities of the Chinese state as it stands, for the importance of which I do not need to tell you more about the Greek economy. The fact that the Prime Minister of the country is rushing tomorrow means something. Reading your counterparty's letter, two things happen: either you are cheating on your counterparty or the counterparty is trying to deceive us. Thirdly, what is not given. You presented in your place a picture of legal, small differences. This is directly contrary to the text of this letter, which you know I do not need to read. I think it exposes you and the government to a good deal. This letter is a little - very much - and you will forgive me for the seriousness of it, but I am not the one to send it, the letter gives it - an indirect signal of fraud. It says that, gentlemen, we have agreed. They are included in the contract as an attachment. Of course, what you have read to us - and the honourable Member, the majority rapporteur, has been kind enough to give it to me, but what you have read is technical and legal processing. The technical and legal processing, Minister, of which 'COSCO' denounces you, is a series of substantive issues. And, little - very much, he tells you that if we knew of this, we neither intended nor had an interest in continuing the investment and the contract that we signed. So please, and I urge you directly to give us a clear explanation of what this is all about. First, either the ‘COSCO’ is lying inconsistently or the government is lying inconsistently. There are no two truths here. There's one. Secondly, what COSCO says, if they change, is not just a legal change. They are a complete differentiation of the substance of the legislation, which has helped the National Representation to vote for, not the government, but the country and the wintering Greek people, the economy, unemployment and everything we can. So I call on you, and I ask you to give us a clear explanation. What you have said is absolutely inadequate and you will allow me to tell you that they are even more exposed to you and the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u148	The clear explanations will be included in the paper to be deposited. Only then will we have clear explanations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u149	When will it be submitted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u150	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u151	You're very welcome. We will continue with the parliamentary representatives as requested, not in the order of the parties. Mr. Loverdos has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u152	Minister, if one reads the letter 'COSCO', one understands that you are trying with a kind wording to cover the person who has been poached. It does not tell you that "we disagree, because we have formulated this condition, while we have signed another". He tells you that you removed a whole layout. He says: "You have removed Article 5, which entitles PPA SA to adopt operating regulations for commercial activities." You took it out of Article 9 of the one text, Article 10 of the other, that you altered paragraph 3, that you deprived the Greek State of the right of administrative expulsion and others. Are these, ladies and gentlemen, legal remarks on legislative improvements? What's this? They're fundamental changes. Yesterday, in committee, we, as a Democratic Independent, called for 'COSCO' to come. And it wasn't very much available to the government to accept that. He accepted it after discussion and the majority rapporteur returned questionable, saying "a company will come here" and so forth. So don't treat the argument that we invited her, she didn't come and she sent a letter. That letter says that. You said yesterday that you would read the text and come by intervention today. We did not say, Mr President, that ratification would not take place. And yesterday at the Conference, you remember how positive we were, except that we disagreed with the urgent procedure. And the government comes at 12: 00, delaying one hour in the opening of the procedure, and does not yet have these remarks. We said yesterday, Mr President, that we are saying 'yes' to the text that we have before us. That's what Mr. Constantinople said. Now we are going for another text, not with legislative improvements, but with substantial changes. What text, Mr Minister, will the Members discuss? What text, Mr Minister, will the Members discuss? With the paragraph or the article you made or through it? With the public's right to order an administrative expulsion or without? What are we gonna say here? Mr President, we cannot humiliate this House. I would ask the Minister for Legislative Initiative - my descriptions in the prototype - to stop the debate, to bring the changes, which we will call them 'nominal improvements', so that we can apply the Rules of Procedure. We need to see what text we have to ratify in order to make our decisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u153	You've said it in your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u154	Listen, Mr. President. Now imagine that our rapporteur will take the floor, make his position and then two hours - let us say - come to other texts, with other regulations. Is that possible? It's right - I end up and I'm done - to stop now. The government's bringing changes, of course, humiliating and moving on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u155	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u156	I saw you, Mrs. Vaki. You'll be late. We will have a second cycle with the Minister's reply and one of each party. From that point of view, the most democratic thing is to put the proposal for a break or not to the House. The Minister does not interrupt the functioning of the House. It is interrupted by the Bureau by a plenary order and not by the Minister. Mr Dannelis has the floor and Mr Lagos, Mr Karras, Mr Karathanasopoulos, will be followed and Mrs Vaki will be closed. For two minutes, please, to keep the time. Here, Mr. Dannelly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr President. Very soon I'll be done. Mr President, neither yesterday nor today do we want to question the honesty of the government, considering what that means. However, if we do not have the guarantee of restoring mutual trust with the counterparties, we cannot see how we can continue the debate. It's inconsistent with the right word. Will Parliament ratify a convention which does not accept one of the contracting parties and calls into question the honesty of the other party, which is the Greek Government? And I think that, because we must ensure and protect the validity of the House, we should have the absolute assurance that mutual trust has been restored, according to what has been signed between the two parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u158	Mr. Rabbit has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u159	Mr President, we have heard the previous parliamentary representatives shouting and complaining to the government about what has happened. The funny thing about this is that those who protest and say all this, since the government dared to bring this bill to debate and vote in the end, would vote for it. For they themselves, who had signed their signatures, had granted the Greek ports and agreed on all of them. Today, then, they find an opportunity with the selfgovernment's selfgovernment to make us the opposition. There is no opposition, however, because these are the measures they have adopted themselves. So we can talk and say that this bill - we have said it from the beginning - will not be able to go through that. The government will be dragged behind by 'COSCO'. That's a fact. And here we need to see what the truth is. And because I have heard many say that they do not question the truthfulness of the government, we, as Golden Dawn, question it. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] We question it because it is a government which has altered a referendum, it is a government that has sold everything out, and it is a government that has made Greece crawl and fall on its knees. So we question this government and its honesty and good intentions. However, we are not told by the parties, who have set wide, broadly signed them and have agreed on all of them, that they are now making opposition and not accepting them. If the government dares, let them bring the bill as they are now, and those who are now reacting will vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u160	Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor for two minutes, and then Mr. Karras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u161	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u162	Mr Gregoraco, they are the parliamentary representatives of the parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u163	Don't we have a right of speech, too?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u164	Not provided. You know that. In any case, as a very old colleague, you will speak at the end. Otherwise it's not predictable and you know it. Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u165	Mr President, we - and our rapporteur has made it clear - are concerned about the substance of the debate. And the substance of the debate is about privatization and the impact it will have on workers, on the wide folk. This is the key, and on this we want to judge the government and judge the government. And, of course, we will not, as a JRC, depend on our attitude to any changes that the government brings to the bill - if possible - because they do not change the substance. A debate is taking place now, precisely so that there is an easy criticism from the other opposition parties against the government of the manner in which they are working, as if they were going to change something about the impact they will have on our workers and our people. In this respect, then, we do not stand on this. And they do that, because they exactly agree with the other parties of counter-population with the substance of the concession, with privatisation, and are trying in a way to diversify themselves from the government. We say that this process must be completed and put to the bottom of the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u166	Mr. Karras has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u167	What I said before remains unchanged. The Minister's answer did not lead me to change my position. I would just add this: whether we are talking about legislative improvements or about amendments to the original text, the result remains the same. We expect substantial new provisions, which we have to see how they fall within the whole of the convention, to see how they come from Article 2, which is not part of the Convention, but is a legislative initiative of the Government. With these considerations we are unable, Mr President, to continue to follow the debate, because at the moment the House will start to discuss what draft legislation? Is the draft law submitted and for which there were reactions from the counterparty? On a bill that's coming, let's see? I think, Mr President, that the meeting should be adjourned at the moment, that the Minister should commit himself, as soon as possible, to what the government intends to bring to the attention of the House and then move on to the debate, taking note of the need for urgency. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u168	Before Mrs Vaki, Mr Gregorakos has the floor for two minutes, 'on behalf of' the Independent Members. I don't know if you've been authorized.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u169	Mr President, I would like to say this: as it turns out, there is a involvement. So, as an experienced parliamentarian, you can unleash the whole situation in Parliament by stopping the process and, if the Minister commits, we can go two hours later. However, to know specifically that these legislative improvements will be submitted in two or three hours' time. So I think we're gonna get out of here. Because, if the situation goes on like this, I think that none of us Members - I think I am speaking for others - will be able to take a stand on a bill that we will not know what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u170	Mrs Vaki has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u171	I would also like, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to make the point. The Minister told us before that the government without delay brings Parliament a law of ratification to be adopted and that the provisions of legislative law are subject to further processing before they are submitted. Are we sure this is not just technical provisions? Are we sure, did we read them, see them, see any legislative improvements?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u172	Let's get them first.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u173	The company's job is to defend its interests. Our job - elected Members - is to make legislative improvements and defend the public interest. Unless you've been identified with 'COSCO' lawyers! [[Noise in the Chamber]] If you want to unfold the well-known policy of political specula and catastrophe, that is not right. A letter with seven points was lodged. Before this letter is read, you have all come to an end, blaming the government for itself, that, that is, it is trying to negotiate better conditions for an investment that will benefit the real economy, an investment that will be for the benefit of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u174	Mrs. Vaki didn't interrupt. Easy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u175	Finally, who are you with?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u176	Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes, and I apologize for omission.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u177	The two minutes are too long, Mr President. Again, the Minister has not been hidden, he is present, ready to give clarification. In my opinion, he has given too much clarification in his prototype, and I think he is here - he is present, he does not leave - to give the rest of it. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Because I am a strong supporter of this agreement with 'COSCO' and I believe that it is a positive step for the country and because the Prime Minister's visit to China tomorrow is important, I would ask him to calm down, to keep the tone down, not to hear extreme words because they are not at present giving the common good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u178	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Easy, please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Teddy, I said I'm watching out at least and trying to use every word with its real meaning. I said that the changes that have been made have been made for reasons of sound legality. It was not for the sake of changing the agreeds, for no other reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u180	Let's move on then, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u181	I therefore call on you and all the other parties to stop this spiral, because you have the opportunity to see whether there is a question of sound legislature or not. You are law-abiding, you can have an opinion and do not worry about whether the government is consistent or not with its contractual obligations and the agreed obligations, and whether a letter exposes it or humiliates it, as Mr Lovers says. Take a seat on this, Mr. Loverdo. Which side are you on? On the part of the right legislature or on the part of a respectable opinion, which cannot claim power in favour of Parliament?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u182	They'll be exposed when the legislative improvements come.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u183	So, as we can all understand, everyone assumes their responsibilities. When a provision, this famous provision of Article 5, was it so general that it had no definition of what is being abolished, should the government say that this cannot be a good legislature?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u184	Why did you sign it then?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u185	Calm down!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u186	Minister, the government didn't...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u187	That's what he did, Mr. Maniatis, the government. So the opposition corons are superfluous. I do not, in fact, want to get into the slippery fields, judge the behaviour of companies, states, anything else. And you shouldn't. We must all be responsible for this. And yesterday and today I declared that our country and the Government have a firm direction to develop relations at all levels with the People's Republic of China. It is also in this direction that the Prime Minister's imminent journey to Beijing and Shanghai is on the way. Everything else is superfluous. But do not call on the government, with terminology of this kind, to prove that he is not an elephant. Because that's what this is about. A question of correct legitimisation is and, if there are misinterpretations, they will be corrected. I therefore have no objection, Mr President, on my side, to the adjournment of the sitting if the House considers that this really must be done. But I do not decide, as you have said. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Loverdo, please...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u188	Please calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u189	In any case, we are concerned at this brief time of urgent urgency that this House should be given the opportunity to express its views and vote on them, because it is an important agreement. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! We are interested in voting on this because it is an important agreement. I don't think that's a matter. We can move on. What will change, if they change, does not affect the entire legislative law and the concession contract. This is a number of issues, but, if the House insists that it has insecurity about what text it is finally called on to discuss and vote, by concession, I would say so, I have no objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u190	Before I close the meeting, Minister, can you tell us about when the legislative improvements will be ready?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u191	Before entering the Chamber, I had started the process, and also since last night. Now I'm not aware of where it is. I have to go find out. I hope in a couple of hours at the most...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u192	Suggests an hour...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u193	No, Minister, we need to know. Listen, we're not going to take it to the courgette to interrupt the meeting. That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u194	I'd suggest an hour.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u195	So in an hour's time will the parliamentary representatives of the parties have the legislative improvements in their hands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u196	Maybe earlier. I'll try as soon as possible. I hope we don't have a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u197	I would therefore sum up that, if the legislative improvements had not been linked to the letter published yesterday, there would have been no talk at all, because, as I said, this is not the first time that legislative improvements have been tabled during the debate. How much now the legislative improvements will be linked or not to the letter, we will all see that when the legislative improvements are submitted. The Minister gave his answer and I don't think we're questioning him. We'll see them in writing. The easy solution for me would be because this is provided for in the Rules of Procedure on my own initiative on this issue - the older people know that it is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure, and so I cannot do so - to put it on or continue in this House, if the Minister had not made his last position, namely that the government is asking or consenting to interrupt one hour, provided that at this time in - now if it is an hour and ten minutes the world is not broken - that the parliamentary representatives of all the parties will have been given the legislative improvements. Ladies and gentlemen, we will then start directly with the first rapporteur. The criticism of legislative improvements will be made in the positions of the rapporteurs, the speaker and the parliamentary representatives. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should suspend the sitting?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u198	We disagree with the proposal, which has been tabled for the end of the debate, because we will desperately reduce the time in which we will be able to place ourselves on the substance of this debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u199	The House therefore voted by a majority against the Communist Party of Greece. So, date, 14:00 here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u200	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. First of all, I would like to make two announcements to this House. I have the honour to inform you that with the decision of the President of the Parliament of 30 June 2016, the Subcommittee on Combat Trade and the Exploitation of People of the Special Standing Committee on Equality, Youth and Human Rights was set up by the Subcommittee on Human Rights. The decision in question has been posted to 'Parliamentary Transparency' and will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u201	Also, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and the Law 3126/2003 "Prime Responsibility of the Ministers", as in force on 28 June 2016, a criminal case for Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras and the Minister of Finance, Euklidis Tsakalotos. The Minister has brought the legislative improvements. I will ask him to testify immediately for the Minutes, to initialise them, to be photographed and distributed. I have asked the Minister - and I think you will all agree - to take the floor first, to speak on the contract and on the legislative issue, so that the rapporteurs, the Parliamentary Representatives and the other Members will be allowed to read the legislative improvements and then to speak with the first rapporteur, Mr SYRIZA. The Minister accepted it. I thank him very much, because the procedure will be facilitated. Mr Minister, first of all I give you the floor to submit the legislative improvements in the Minutes. Then you will have increased time - around twenty minutes, instead of fifteen that was your speech -, to speak about the contract and on the legislative improvements. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Mr President. I'm running two teams of legal improvements. One concerns Articles 5, 6, 9 and 12 of the Act of Accession, and the other concerns Articles 14, 15 and 19. I am tabling them for the Minutes and I would ask them to be distributed to the Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u203	Don't develop them now, so we can get time. You'll develop them from the Step. Minister, you have the floor for twenty minutes to speak on both the contract and the documents you have submitted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u204	Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this interruption was necessary, despite the fact that it is not customary. I hope that there will be an assessment of the democraticity with which the government has appealed to this corollary, so that there is nothing in the entire Chamber for the real evaluation of all the data contained in this bill. It is a bill that really aims to create new rules for the development of the country. Our Government - and I referred to this in yesterday's committee, like others from the majority - when it took place at the end of January 2015, in its programme declaration but also in its programme statements expressly and with great clarity it had placed itself in the position that it was not in favour of resolving privatisations for strategic productive sectors of the country and especially for the ports of Piraeus and Thessaloniki. This position does not come from an ideological position, but from a systematic evaluation of possibilities, which must be designed for another kind of productive reconstruction in the country. It is a planning of all transport - maritime and land - which includes a coordinated programme for the integration of the ports of the country into the European port network, which creates synergies and parameters with productive activities in each region of the country, taking into account the specificities of each region, each port, which must be coordinated, rationally and organised, in a single administration, to have a real basis in order to create added values and prospects. I said yesterday that this vision and this plan were indeed not able to implement it, because developments in the storms of 2015, the battle of negotiation, as was said, with the most cruel and impeccable terms, resulted in a compromise, which had positive elements and open-minded elements, but had painful solutions and measures and had choices, such as that, which were not compatible with our programming declarations. This is not a withdrawal programme. But it is, indeed, a change of cruising and an adaptation to an almost forced option. This option, which was almost forced on privatisation, which had already been launched and which the competitive process was under way - restrictively - our Government - along with all other issues - had the sensitivity to address and put them before the Greek people in the September elections. I insist on and stress once again, as yesterday, as always, like all of us, that he did it not to get a white check to implement a programme, what he wanted, but to get the mandate to continue the responsibility of the country's governance in spite of its adaptation, despite the compromise. And this command, just like that, that no one can question, was given by the Greek people. So under the responsibility of this mandate - and not because we want to be kept in chairs, our discomforts have always been our chairs of power, and no authority remains in our area, these are criticisms of those who believe the alibis themselves - our government has been put with perseverance, with a lot of work and seriousness, with little communication and misuse - with no illusion - but with no emphasis on the communication but on the essential, this binding agreement to implement it precisely so as to avoid risking worse developments, so as not to risk situations which may arise from the avoidance of the obligations we have entered into as a government and as a country. And it has been put into practice in each sector separately, in the best possible way, for the benefit of society as a whole, of the social dividend and of the public interest, in conditions which do not favour such directions. And that's where there really is an anti-corruption. The conditions prevailing and the days that Europe lives all and other parts of the world are tragic. It is the degradation of the state-law, the degradation of the welfare state, the degradation of the principles of public interest, market policy as a racing way out of some powerful circles of the economy from the crisis. So, not only Greek, but also an international phenomenon, it does not favour any policies that strive to maintain the priority of defending the public interest and increasing the social dividend. On the contrary - and indeed in the memorandum policies - this is much more difficult when a number of measures are indeed extremely restrictive.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u205	Minister, I beg your pardon for the interruption, but I would like to make an announcement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being held from the top Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, a delegation of academics from the Hellenic American Ahemian Organization. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Thank you, Minister. Carry on, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u206	So, this targeting, this commitment, even in the case of the ports of Piraeus and Thessaloniki, despite the fact that especially for the port of Piraeus, almost everything was configured, almost everything was outdated, almost everything was binding, even in extreme treaty in terms of pressurity of time, we were placed to make all those necessary changes that could serve the objectives I mentioned. First of all, there is differentiation in relation to the planned sale plan of the majority of shares in relation to the project that the previous government had promoted. The differentiation consists of selling first and transferring 51% of shares after a five-year smooth progression and binding response of the concessionaire to what the agreement commits him - after the end of this five-year period - to transfer the other 16% of the share package. In the meantime, any gains from dividends or from any other gains that are paid for this 16% via TDI - because the TIPE has the shares - to benefit from general public planning, even in this direction of debt service, since, as the TIDE is well-known, what it receives there is. But we didn't stand alone in this. The coastline of the Fertilizers was a very long and difficult conquest, under extremely pressing conditions. The Prime Minister's commitment to the people of Drapetson and Keratini and to the wider region of the municipalities of Piraeus became a reality. Today, with the addition to this special provision bill, the coastline of Lipamata is completed and is now assigned to the Municipality of Drapetsonas. You know, it's not a concession. This is the right to racing at least 20 years after the closure of the fertiliser plant in the former industrial area of Drapetsona. There were a lot of issues. I'll report some. There were issues that had to do with archaeological sites. The place of Kynosuras in Salamis is not a space of small archaeological importance, symbolically and truly. Yet they were not excluded, because they had an indirect commercial interest. But it was excluded. Furthermore, the minimum pier 1 cap, in order to measure the profitability and productivity of the pier with higher standards and not low, which would not benefit the overall traffic, revenues and others. Its drastic growth is coming. In addition, property not located within the terrestrial port area, which in the course of the decades had been acquired by the PPA, which was not exempt and would be an asset for use by the concessionaire, was excluded. The public interest in services was safeguarded by the establishment of the IAS, which was transferred to all these activities carried out by the PPA as a public interest body - in the part that exercised such responsibilities, because the rest of it was a commercial company, a public limited company and even a listed stock exchange - and not only left through the concession agreement from the concessionaire's power, but organisedly within the powers of a body that can actually exercise them rather than be diffused here and there. This was the reason for criticism of me and the government, that we are prisoners, that we are putting a bastard to control the investment, that we are indirectly abolishing privatisation and so on. It was, however, accepted at the end as a European acquis which cannot be called into question and our Government has been fully vindicated. The term 5.11 on the protection of work, which was added to the concession contract, was really very important. On this basis, the protection of labour rights is already guaranteed by the concession agreement and, subsequently, by Article 10A of the draft law, the existing general staff regulation is maintained. I told the committee yesterday. It retains the PPA Board of Directors, as the legislation provides, the right to replace the existing general regulation - to abolish it and replace it - but the wording of Article 10A is uniform. It says that the working regulation is maintained until it has been repealed by the PPA Board of Directors at the same time, at the same time, immediately, on the basis of the existing legislation and as provided for by negotiation with workers and arbitration, unless a solution is reached between workers. In this respect - and in order to avoid the slightest doubt, although there can be no question - I also make an interpretative statement on the content of Article 10A, which says: ‘With Article 10A, the working rights of workers in the PPA shall be fully guaranteed, taking into account that, by combining the provisions of Law 3996/2011 (Table I 170 of the Official Journal of the Government) and of 2063/D1 632/2011, Ministerial Decision of the Minister for Labour and Social Security (Table II' 266), it follows that: (a) the current legislation totally prohibits the concessionaire from abolishing the existing general staff regulation and at the same time operating the "PA S.A." even one (1) day without a general staff regulation; (b) the current legislation clearly provides that the operation of PPA S.A. without a general staff regulation, even on one day, is a very serious breach of labour law, for which it is permitted even the imposition of the administrative sanction of the temporary cessation of the operation of the concessionaire, which will also bring about the corresponding contractual penalties of the ratified concession contract. Consequently, in accordance with the legislation in force, a distinct phase of the abolition of the above Regulations without at the same time replacing them cannot exist. Furthermore, taking into account the fact that after the entry into force of the draft law under the above Regulations, the provisions on retroactiveness apply, there is no right for the concessionaire to operate the ‘PAA S.A.’ without them. I will sign it and submit it for the Minutes as a special interpretative statement on the content of Article 10a, although I insist and repeat that there is no question on any side about the meaning of this provision - and I assure you of that - there is, however, insecurity in the workplace.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u207	Excuse me, Minister, an interpretative statement in a law order before it is passed? Why don't you put it in the text of the legislation? What's that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u208	Don't interrupt, Mr. Treasury. Let the Minister finish and then, when the time comes, you'll be placed. Don't start the same again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u209	Excuse me, but I can't tell what's going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u210	I'll explain that, too. The text of the law as it stands is exactly, like all other texts, a product of a procedure aimed at ensuring the will of the Government and the legislator, without leaving any doubt and doubt about the infringement of provisions or any other of the concession agreement. I am convinced that there is no question, Mr. Treasury. But I also said to the workers, because it is a bad thing to start this new period in the port of Piraeus with uncertainties and fears, because it is an incision, then, that workers should stay in their seats and remain as productive units of this procedure in the new conditions, with all their rights. That is why I have moved on to what you are right to say that it has a relative originality, but yet it has a serious feasibility and I ask you to accept it. From there on compatible and relevant with this 10A arrangement is Article 11, which actually raises the issues of transfers. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall be brief as far as I can, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u211	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u212	The issues referred to in Article 11, as I said yesterday in committee, regulate the possibility of transfers from the Port Authority of Piraeus and the Port Authority of Thessaloniki to the narrow and wider public sector by means of procedures and provisions set out in this provision. These procedures and forecasts ensure that this issue is managed rationally. They make right-wing beneficiaries of the PPA and EGF right now. From there on, depending on the data, it enables the government to assess the possibilities of the public, the skills - they will not go 'hard' to those who go - and impose restrictions. If they are transferred to the State, they will not translate with what is called a ‘personal difference’, they will be entered into the single wage bill into the positions they will take. We therefore proceed to a complex and creative solution to the transfers as a possibility. The desire of the government, which has been declared several times in the previous period and during the strike, is neither one worker nor one employee to make use of this provision. The best thing would be to stay there. But for the overall and structured course and transition to the new reality we must have provided for ensuring the development and production process under the rules and conditions of social security and social certainty. It is a solution that the government has not chosen. Employees asked for it. We have accepted it precisely in these terms and rules as a measure to balance the overall data according to all the other forecasts required for this. I would also like to see, because many times we have referred to the new data, about the AAL, the port public authority. Some say it's a "shower empty". I shall table the list of responsibilities in the minutes. I have done so in the previous procedure, but I do so now with a more complete table, which remains indicative because the whole of the responsibilities are also asking the TIADED and the PPA to take a step forward and our ministry is in this process. However, he's quite complete. There may be another, two, three responsibilities of public interest that pass through the PPA to the public port Authority. Please read them, please, and you will see that they are very important competences to truly exercise social and productive control at port under rules of real justice and development perspective. [[At this point, the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Islands Policy, Mr Theodoros Dritsas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I conclude, because much could be said throughout this process, about how we have reached this point and what very important changes we have achieved. I am not going to talk about what I tabled yesterday as an amendment and have been included in the provisions of the law, because I do not have time to do so. As I said yesterday, in fact, except in the case of performance in the Municipality of Drapetsonas - Keratsini of the fertiliser coastline, all the others are accounting regulations from previous years which force the Ministry's services to do their job properly. All possible solutions have been studied. There aren't any. It's not the first time they've come. In a bill that will then come, which is scheduled to be filed in the House in the next few days from our Ministry, these were contained. We have now taken them from there because they are extremely urgent now, they are suffocating the data, and important procedures are under threat and we have put them here. These articles have come out in consultation, they are well-known, they are not new, we are not surprised, but in any case they are not very important. It's almost all, not all, accounting arrangements. And I will finish with the legislative improvements that I have just tabled. Ladies and gentlemen, the fuss and gentlemen, the turbulence that took place after this famous letter, sent yesterday by its spokesman, 'COSCO' to the Committee on Production and Trade and which was so publicised, must confirm once again that it did not have any real basis, but no real basis. The changes made by the government and I personally, by tabling the draft law, do not in any way constitute a breach of the agreement, a breach of the concession or anything else. However, that was the view of the concessionaire. I want to believe that the concessionaire has accepted legal suggestions, which I respect, but I do not accept, suggestions legally excessive, excessive coverage, excessive safeguard. And a question was literally raised from the outside or where there were individual issues - those who are legal you know that there are some delicate shades that we should always take care of them - could be solved by normal procedures. But a major issue was born without having to be born. Since birth, of course, you have rushed most opposition parties - not all in the same way - to make use of and manifest a allegedly untrustworthy of the government or a attitude of wickedness or a attitude that undermines the international prestige of the country or anything else, while you should much more carefully see the texts, see my position yesterday in the committee, but understand that these issues are not matters of white - black and they are not issues that bring some to confront, in order for the government and the concessionaire. They can be an object where, in any case, this is considered necessary for synthetic solutions. And of course we respect the concessionaire and the friend country, the People's Republic of China, much more when this company has a state status. And in this direction we have no objection to exhaust all good faith in order not to remain the slightest suspicion that our Government is not consistent with its domestic and international obligations. We are currently assessing it politically as our primary obligation and we have proved this with the agreements we have made with the European Union and the International Monetary Fund, precisely in order to form in our country the framework of the confidence that is needed to bring the production process forward and why very delicate and serious issues are played in this reality, in this necessity, which concerns the Greek people. They're not about the government of SYRIZA. Every government in power, then it goes away and things change. The Greek people, however, remain. Because it will ensure a prospect through this painful six-year exit from the crisis, it is a very high priority. We have also moved in this respect. So, with this spirit, I would like to ask, with this possibility that the House gave us - although we started it last night - to find solutions to help overcome any reservation and any legally unsafe approach. We have also exhausted it at the time of the adjournment of the sitting, bringing it to the point where these amendments and legislative improvements are included which we have just brought to you. Read them and we are at your disposal to discuss details if they arise. I personally think they don't come up. I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u213	Yes, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u214	However, I can say that, for some of these issues, we will be given the possibility in the next few years, with greater comfort of time, of changing and cooling, to understand all, including the concessionaire, that there was no reason to create this reaction and all this turbulence. Because the aim of our Government to ensure good legislation - I said it before I spoke, I say it now - is not only about the public space and the public interest, but also about the interest of the concessionaire. Our own interventions have contributed to the good legislation that serves everyone, otherwise they leave legal gaps, which, from now on, can create worse frictions or precarious solutions that will disrupt and hinder the development and productive prospects in the future. We have therefore taken responsibility for these legislative improvements which, in fact, can now be launched and tested in practice to assess them in their course. I'm sure you can calmly...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u215	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u216	I'm done, Mr. President. Just one small point. After my previous position, because I sincerely described before this House, as I am obliged to do, that this initiative of the changes that have taken place is not just our Ministry and my own - and I assume all the responsibility for this, obviously, as I have to do and have no intention of delegating responsibilities - was precisely an initiative of the General Secretariat of the Government, in the context of the usual practice that follows all the bills to control and intervene in the direction of good legislature. It wasn't an exception. So this, ladies and gentlemen, instantly, after two minutes, on various television stations and radio stations, was brought as news that 'Diritsa is emptying Maximos'. I therefore call on this Chamber to resist this misery, because, if Dricas or SYRIZA are now pressed with such misery, no one is ruthless and do not tolerate this kind of savagery, from wherever it occurs. You are all defending the political system of Greece, when it really can function and not let the media and other systems, exogenous and endogenous, determine the functions of the political system in Greece and lead things to the depreciation of every function, any institutional real reproduction of reality in progressive directions, create a climate of disillusionment among citizens and lead things to where else?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u217	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u218	I'm done, Mr. President. Where else? In the development of the most superstitious and reactionary fascist attitudes and directions. Europe is moving in this direction with all these phenomena. Greece is being tested...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u219	Don't open up a word about Brexit now. We're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u220	Don't let the ferry go open.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u221	We are starting with the majority rapporteur, Mr Ilias Cameroon. Before you start, however, I would like to say that I have informed the Secretariats of the Parliamentary Groups that, possibly, those of the Heads of State or Government who wish to take the floor will not take it before the rapporteurs and special speakers finish their contributions. I have made this clear: Discontinuation of the flow of rapporteurs and special speakers will not be made for any leader of any party. Mr. Cameroon has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u222	Ladies and gentlemen, "he gave me." For the most part, a lot of fuss about nothing. In fact, the letter we saw yesterday and created such an inconvenience, the high tone that they would not take part in the tender if they knew and others, etc., that the credibility of the Greek State, etc., was affected, was not justified by the objections, by the seven points put forward below. This is also demonstrated today, because in fact, with mere legislative improvements, all these issues are dealt with. You know what? They didn't have a base. There was no basis at all for the letter, because all these issues are set out in Annex 1.1.A. And there was no reason. Here, of course, there are reasonable questions about the noise raised by the Opposition or part of the Opposition, with various shades, as the Minister said. While they knew the letter, while they knew the points, they did not talk about the substance of what the letter puts, but in general and vaguely said that the agreement was changing, another agreement, but we were talking about others. What did they finally do? They raised a noise against the country, eventually, a noise of unreliability to the Greek State, at a time when we are trying to open up and create a security climate for investment, etc., but also at a time when the Prime Minister's visit to China was on the eve of our visit. That's what you've done. Of course, there's another question coming in here. Does that help you? Of course, that's what you want. You've shown it since SYRIZA came out. You do nothing more, you have no other goal than how to come back to power and you do not care if, with your attitude, you create a problem in the country. You have done the same by now that every two-three months you have put the issue of elections, when we still want to create a security climate, the same when you want the evaluation not to be closed for your own reasons. The same happens now. You would be happy if we had a problem today and did not go ahead with this convention, which, on the other hand, the New Democracy says: 'It is our creation, we have brought it'. Here, ladies and gentlemen, it seems the problem of strategy and tactics you have, because while you would sign everything, you have already made an agreement which we have changed and to which I shall refer. The Minister also mentioned what improvements were made, to the extent that I proposed, Mr Minister, the bill does not have the title 'Amendments and Codification', but rather 'Improving the 2002 Agreement'. So while you signed and agreed on all this and want to agree on what the partner - who is doing well, because he defends the interests of the company, but our work is different, such as defending the interests of the Greek public and of the Greek people - you come from the other side and try to support, for example, the work. You know, you're at least being unreliable, so I don't want to use any other expression. Do you think that when you say from the Step of the House that we would like it not to go away - because the draft law stipulates that anyone who wants, can ask for and transfer to the public - no worker? You want no one to leave? Says who? Does anyone believe you? You're the ones who signed up for everyone to leave and be free for the company to do whatever it wants? The ones you've broken up the work relationships? You who fired so many people in the past few years? Who thinks you're supporting work? So this contradiction shows your strategic and tactical problem. But, of course, when you cannot stand up to it, you are creating all these communication and procedural problems. Of course, you have nothing else to do, you don't know on what basis to make opposition, but on what basis we did it first, and you follow, you have changed positions, you are unreliable, you cannot because your ideology is different. And in the end - you're asking to resign. That's what you want. Why? Because we made it hard for you. You were difficult to elect SYRIZA. You're changing your whole schedule. I will give you an example. Have you read what Mr. Anomeritis sent the letter, which you had appointed, if I remember correctly, to the PPA? It says that the notice you made in 2014 for the concession of the PPA was not provided for in the 2012 Memorandum and not at all that way. And it was your invention that - which there is nowhere in the world beyond Thatcher period in England, which you all say and recognize - that it is granted to a beneficiary, to a company, the whole port and all its activities. Nowhere in the world is that much more in Europe. It would be very different - and the memorandum did not impose it - if pieces of the harbor were given to different companies and not the way they are given, which, as you did, was a sale. However, by saying all of this and by doing this, you are overlooking who are responsible for these signatures, since you are accusing us of changing positions and others. You also overlook the fact that there was the summer agreement, you overlook that we had elections in September, as you are seeing the changes and improvements that we make. And so that I, Mr President, and colleagues, do not fall into the trap of drifting and talking about them, when we should talk about the bill, let me come to the point briefly. So let's see what's changing in the bill. They all said so, but I'll say it again to inspire them, because they don't like some people to talk to. First - first - the transfer to 51% and 16%, while the second transfer to five years 16% is under a dissolved sect, under the obligation to apply what has been agreed. Excludes the fertiliser zone. In fact, it is attributed to the Municipality of Keratini through this bill that we are discussing. Many areas and archaeological sites, such as the Kinosouras peninsula, are protected, the use of critical facilities, from the Port Body and the Greek Coast Guard, which you signed to go to the company, a development dimension is given to the pier 1, and property outside the land is protected - which the Minister said - and it would be well if we had time to see how many buildings, how many plots, even schools you have taught in the PPA - are protected the public interest of the services, much more with the IAS you are doing and with the responsibilities he has - as the Minister said - which you have not predicted. The most important thing is that it has other details, such as the 2% provided for in the original agreement, which is now being made about 3.5% of the revenue per year in the public sector, investment of 300 million in the first five years and fifty in the next year. Because of the time I will shorten, to talk about the workers: The General Staff Regulations are maintained, the PPA replaces the general regulation with employee participation, the Internal Organisation and Operation Regulation of the PPA is maintained, the PPA Board may replace it, but always with approval. Article 11A, for which a great deal of discussion is taking place, ensures that labour rights are largely guaranteed, prohibits the concessionaire from abolishing the general staff regulation and cannot operate without a general staff regulation for one day. The proof of this is that yesterday at the hearing of the bodies in the committee, we heard the workers' representatives being sufficiently satisfied, others and very pleased that they have passed some of their requests, if not all, which were impossible in this amendment to the original contract. Nor can the concessionaire unilaterally abolish contracts, i.e. convert them into works contracts, reduce wages, dismiss the workers outside the general regulation, there is a maximum number, maintenance of the ship repair, which is very serious. And this is part of the changes that I should say before and is something very important because it is not just rescued, but it develops the ship repair area. In my time, let me make brief political references. By voting for Law No.4389/2016 and the establishment of the "Greek Company of Participators and Property S.A." of the State - notice, you may not all know it - public control at ports is not in doubt. Because you've given TIAD all the ports. Now, the rest of the ports will not be in the TIAD, they'll be in the cashier we built. And we'll have the opportunity to talk about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u223	Amazing! Bravo!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u224	You're laughing. You laugh as much as you like. You'll see. All right, you'll see, Mr. Varvichiotis. The transfer takes place in time that the PPA has lost its ownership, is a purely anonymous company and is thus protected by public functions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The draft Community law regulates a number of further issues - because I must end - such as state supervision, the possibility of regulation, the armouring of the sea port area, the safeguarding of the public character, the regulation of port charges, the maintenance of the general staff regulation and others. I would like to say a lot, for example, that there are mechanisms to respect the conditions, such as controls, criminal clauses, the guarantee letter, the procedure to terminate the contract and so on. But let me finish with this, which is very important to us, because it shows our different philosophy. Look, it may, much more with the improvements made, we may have growth in the region, development of revenue, development of traffic, development of GDP and so on. Do you know what we're interested in? And that is understandable throughout government policy by now, I think. We don't only care how the numbers develop. We're interested in who's benefiting from them. And if one carefully sits down and counts all these changes and the changes in the direction they were and towards where the struggle was given, it was precisely in this direction: to benefit society. To have a social benefit, to have a social sign through all this struggle, the negotiations and the changes we have made. It was therefore worth delaying, because there was really a negotiation. Negotiation has taken place and it is even now that we are discussing this House, and that shows the great difference between you who, on the one hand, say 'why do you not sign'? And on the other hand, you say: 'Why are you stalling?' Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u225	The general rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mrs Olga Kefaloyannis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u226	Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by saying that we are living unprecedented situations, unique, which, of course, go beyond the history of ratification of the agreement and are now dramatically touching the country's prestige and image. At a time when you're supposed to be telling us that we're entering a phase of normality, which you're supposed to be looking for investors, that you're supposed to be pursuing alliances abroad, you're acting in a way that's absolutely challenging. We are not talking here about a mistake by the Ministry of Shipping, we are not talking about a bad moment in the government. We are talking about a monstrous inconsistency of words and actions. The Hellenic Republic seemed not to keep its signature and the Prime Minister should come to the House and explain what happened. Because your untrustworthyness has not been shown by us, by the Qualified Opposition, by the rest of the Opposition or by the media that you are saying. Your counterparties themselves, in this case the Chinese State, pointed it out. I would like to know: Who is responsible for the break-up of the Greek state? What will the Prime Minister tell China tomorrow? What's he going to look at with the Chinese officials? With what authority, what stature will it be directed to Chinese investors? Tell them what? Come to a country that sometimes does not respect the agreeds, which sometimes does not respect its signature, in a country that you may not have confidence in anything? So, ladies and gentlemen of the government, do you think growth will come? Is that the justice you're evangelizing? Is this the Greece you want? Today the German Vice-Chancellor and Minister for Economy, Mr Gabriel, is in our country. I wonder, will anyone explain to him the pragmy unfolded in the Greek Parliament? Because we all know very well that you haven't interrupted to better make legislative improvements. We know very well that we have interrupted to resolve the issue of your involvement with your counterparty.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u227	You asked for it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u228	Have you ever wondered what image of unreliableness are you creating with your political decisions around the world? You're talking about a good piece of legislation. If nothing else, that is also hypocritical and shows terrible courage to bring in urgent bills of endlessness in the middle of the night, to bring legal improvements supposedly or unnecessarily to the bill, and to tell us that the issue of yours is good legislation. And to prevent you, we're with Greece. We are, however, with Greece which honours its signature, with Greece of prestige, international respect, dignity. We are with Greece who can stand on its feet, can claim its future, participate equally and proudly in the big, tectonic changes that are taking place in Europe and the world. With this Greece we are, ladies and gentlemen of the government. Ladies and gentlemen, once again the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is following the path of unreliability. But we say, but we agree, but we bring and we vote. Unfortunately, yesterday's reservations in committee were confirmed in the most unfortunate way. The suspicion we had that once again you will not stick to the agreement was true. And do you realize that one of Greece's largest investment agreements was compromised, with your sole responsibility? Is it possible for the country to need more than ever from investment and you to operate in these incomprehensible ways? Do you understand what "national credibility" means? You misled the citizens, putting their unrealistic goals in order to uphold their vote. You have come here to Parliament and you have misled the Members. You have reached the point where you have changed what is agreed with the investor and counterparty of the Greek State. And that's not what we're talking about. The Chinese say it. Really, for you the authority of the country has no meaning, no value? Indeed, what investor will think of coming to Greece and taking the risk called "SYRIZA - ANEL Government". We are talking about unprecedented events, which are further injured by the country's credibility. And it's the least ironic to come and talk to us about virtuous circles. It is the least comical to talk about growth and even fair, when you go with such unacceptable behaviors. Decently, you are gaining the role of the most anti-government and more insolent government. Ladies and gentlemen, the agreement that comes to be ratified is an extremely important investment, which has been launched - to remember all of us - on the New Democracy Government and on Kostas Karamanlis' prestige in 2008. It is one of the most important agreements for the development of our country, an agreement designed with vision, but also with long-term development strategy. The New Democracy over the years, consistently and with structured steps, supported and proceeded with the necessary stages of the agreement, based solely on the benefit and interest of the country. Unlike you, who, with a huge delay at the expense of the public interest - as we all know, this competition was under way when the SYRIZA - ANEL - took place, you have allowed eighteen months to close the agreement and bring it to the House through the urgency procedure, but an agreement that accepted unfair criticism and hard warfare, especially from Mr Tsipras when he was in the opposition, but also from your officials, who, with incoherents and slogans, were supposed to be the defenders of the public interest. Really, can you consider the extent of the damage to the Greek economy, the size that Greece has raised out, when so many extreme voices, such easily populist arguments, against investment, were heard? Can you think of how many other investors have been discouraged by these behaviors? We cannot and should not forget the statements made by the current Prime Minister when he was in the opposition, say'move it'. Let us say that the ports, the airports "only with ferryers" will come to us in the plans to say that "the government will not continue selling public property" and in the recent statements to tell us "Greece enters a new phase that the emphasis is on the reconstruction and recovery of the economy, this investment will be the starting point for the attraction of other investment". Is this the consequence of the Prime Minister, who, as a Vice-President, did not vote for any of the arrangements that we have introduced for the development of the port, did not vote for any of the investments we have made, while he never said that they are moving in the right direction? Now he comes and tells us that the investment he fought a few years ago will be a 'principle for other investments'? Has the sales become the starting point for other investments? So many obsessions I've never seen before. How do we forget, however, the attitude and statements of the Minister for Maritime Affairs, Mr. Dritsa, who, as a life goal, showed us that it is the cancellation of the privatization of the PPA, which took part in all demonstrations against privatization and as MP for Piraeus, as a candidate for the Mayor of Piraeus, even when he swore as Deputy Minister of Shipping, from all his positions, made statements against the agreement! And yet, on April 8, 2016, you, Mr. Dritsa, signed the PPA Convention, between TIADE and ‘CHINA COSCO SHIPPING CORPORTION’. And you didn't stop there. Fixed nerve again. Lies, misleading, bilingualism and even systematic. Your only concern was the conquest of power and your only concern is your stay in power.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u229	Are you going to tell me about this?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u230	Ladies and gentlemen, Piraeus is finally changing in 2008, when the New Democracy Government of Kostas Karamanlis signed the contract for the concession of the container station by the PPA to ‘COSCO’. At that time one of the most strategic sections - namely the 2 and 3 platforms and the most important part of the value of the PPA - was allocated to its subsidiary ‘COSCO’ in Greece for thirty plus 10 years. This agreement has been fought as much as anyone else and let us not forget the strikes against the concession agreement, the political reactions. I wonder today if you have the courage to admit it, which, of course, you have not dared to do with Antonis Samaras in the case of the TAP gas pipeline, if you have the courage to accept that the New Democracy over all these years has done its duty, that this course of the agreement has created a new historical record of trafficking that surpassed three hundred thousand containers in May. In the first five months of the year it was closed at a rate of 10% increase, despite the high decline in the import in Greece trade, the continuing strikes in the other ports, as well as the interruption for many days of the railway line of Idouded by immigrants and refugees. In fact, according to data from the UNCTAD report, the rate of increase of transit containers in Piraeus for 2010-2015, where the ‘COSCO’ was fully installed, is 698%. Piraeus is already the third largest container port in the Mediterranean. Piraeus is changing, becoming a different port with purely financial benefits. Furthermore, the agreement is expected to contribute in the long term to reducing public debt, as IOBE says, by 2.3 percentage points of GDP. The development of the port of Piraeus can send a strong signal to the international markets that Greece is a safe and attractive investment city. These are some of the benefits that you now come to invoke, and until January 2015 when you were opposition, you were ruthlessly condemning. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to refer to Article 11 of the bill, which regulates the process of transfer of PPA and PAI staff to the public sector. Transitions shall take place once again by way of derogation from the provisions of the Treaties and shall be defined by common ministerial decisions. The problem is that the cost of the transitions to the state budget is rather high, while the relevant report from the State General Accountancy does not specify it. It is vague that the wording of the report, which, instead of repeating the well-known wording that the cost cannot be calculated as it depends on real events, says that there will be no burden on the budget of a single Ministry and its supervised entities, the Ministry of Shipping, but obviously, if the institutions are transferred to other ministries, there will be a burden. The public cost is estimated to reach EUR 20 million per year and if the Chinese company considers that no worker needs, then the cost can be up to EUR 70 million. If it is combined with the other recruitment operations of contractors and renewals followed by the Government in the public sector, there is a risk that, in a very short time, wage costs will be increased and, of course, the notorious 'cutter' needs to be activated. Also, what you have not noticed is that the transfers are considered new public recruitments and it is clear that if there is a Memorandum limiting the rule "one to four" and "one to three" for the next few years, these posts will be taken from the source of recruitment. They will therefore be removed from the specialities that the public needs most, such as education and health. Ladies and gentlemen, New Democracy has proved not only the vision but also in a position to implement investment opportunities in practice and to open up new prospects. We believe that the development of the Piraeus port and the creation of an international centre for both transit trade and tourism and cruise should have a catalytic impact on the domestic economy, on entrepreneurship and on society, so we do not disagree in the essence of the convention. The problem is with you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, because you have undertaken to carry out a giant privatisation programme, demanding and difficult, which in many cases needs faith and dedication. I wonder, however, what the limits of your amoralism will be, to where you will arrive to remain in power, how you will implement a programme that many of you say you do not believe. But, as I said yesterday, there is always unpleasant and pleasant news. The unpleasant for you is that you are committed, you have signed your signature to execute it and as we have seen today, after you have put your signature, you are forced to make all the changes needed to honor it. The pleasant thing for the Greek people is that if you can't, there's a solution: quit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u231	I call on the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr Nikolaos Kouzilos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u232	Thank you very much, Mr President. We heard SYRIZA say 'a lot of trouble about nothing'. Really? The black day where the port is sold? Really? Here's what you're going to vote on, and like everyone else, in law-makers. What was withdrawn and the paper sent by 'COSCO', you brought it back again. Since the publication of this "PAS S.A.", that is to say, 'COSCO' will have the right to exercise only the powers and powers provided for in the employment contract. In other words, 'COSCO' likes it! For us, the People's Association - Golden Dawn, today is a black day for the ports. You put the tombstone, it becomes the beginning to sell not only PPA and PLTH, but under this contract all the other ports of the country will be sold. You accused New Democracy of practicing and you now come and put your stamp and of course your signature. There is another simple question: why is the New Democracy now reacting? In August 2015, he voted for it. He had voted for the TIAD, it had voted to make all the sales of the ports. Why is he reacting? We must not forget Samaras when he had made the prestige in the port, in the PPA. He had made the frame. We must not forget Samaras when he had gone to China for 17 billion investments, but not for Greece, for China. That's why it's better if you don't talk. Let us see if there were any proposals. There were, like the creation of port funds, such as the Barcelona model, such as the management model that existed before the sale and the new model that you bring to rent the projectors. Under no circumstances was the sale of the PPA, the sale of ports. The whole model that exists throughout Europe and around the world are self-sufficient public institutions. Sadly, you're original! Of course, whoever dared to speak and say things that what you do is not right and had a reaction and a resistance, you helped him quit. We need to look at the issue of ports and go back a little bit further. You get to the consultation of the shipping bill, which had issues of RAL and IAL of the public body. Take it back and take it out of consultation. You get the specific articles concerning RAL and IAL, you put them as a tax multiplier, as an emergency and a Memorandum commitment. You're voting for this. The FMYLE and all the port workers are calling out that they are not guaranteed anything, at least their employment rights, their collective agreement, the general regulation, the transfers, anything. After that, what are you doing? In fact, nothing. There are twenty-eight days of strikes. Port workers were strikers twenty-eight days. After twenty - eight days, after ratification of the convention had to come to Parliament, you had to pass Article 10A and Article 11. The question is: Who eventually legislates? The Public Port Authority was very advertised to solve the problems. He didn't really solve anything. We've heard for so many months that the state will keep going. When you were opposition, didn't you know that the state has all the time? But I would remind you of what you were saying, because you need to remember that. I am not talking about 2012, 2013, 2014, but about 2015. So you said: "SYRIZA intends to rethink the concession contract of the GPA, that is, 'COSCO'. No one's seen that. The newspaper “ENVENTION” on 8-3-2015 writes “Conservation of the public character of the PPA”. "AUSY" writes on 31-1-2016 "We're not going to sell the PPA." On 19-05-2016, no one spoke to SYRIZA against ‘COSCO’. Let's remind you that we didn't hold the seamen's banners at the port. SYRIZA kept them and went out front. SYRIZA went out ahead and said "the port is not sold", it doesn't, it doesn't show. And now you sign! Your seal has your signature. So you fought against 'COSCO' and against 'we don't sell the ports' policy. Mr President, you said 'we seek stability and security in industrial relations in ports'. I will submit to the minutes a press release of the FMYLE from 6-4-2016, as well as your statement on "AGE". From 6-4-2016 they say, referring to you, for "fake words" and tell you that there is no work safety. And you say 'we seek stability and security in industrial relations in ports'! I am referring to the press release of the FMYLE on 6-4-2016. From April they are all trying to tell you to have in the contract at least as last blockade, to guarantee the general staff regulation, collective agreements, transfers. Three things they asked for. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Kouzilos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned publication of the newspaper "The AUGI" as well as the above-mentioned press release of the FMYLE, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament Department of Stenography and Practices.]] You're not just talking about growth. The New Democracy speaks, of course. So let's see what New Democracy gave us with the sale. Because they said it would be an investment with growth. The New Democracy gave the ‘COSCO’ to the PPA and to the quays 2 and 3, as well as the customer list. And that is why since the 'COSCO' took over, we have seen profits as 'COSCOs'. You give the whole port and everything. Actually, the New Democracy didn't have time to do it. You see them that's what they wanted to do, but they didn't make it. You didn't leave them. So you're coming now and what are you doing? Apart from giving the entire clientele and the share package, which we do not know now how much it will go up - as long as the 'brows' negotiations were on the stock exchange to drop the price of the PPA' share to get it with 22 euros, and it was much higher the value of it - you also give the European programmes that were part of the PPA. You're giving them for a price of 368 million. In the immediate future, 'COSCO' says it will give you 280 million. Two hundred and eighty million will cost transfers, payrolls for two years and all the rest the public will have for all the staff. All these 280 million will be gone in two years. What will the public have won? Nothing. Do you know how much "COSCO" bought the pier 2? Less than 280 million. We're impressed by something else we don't see in the contract. We don't see any money. We are talking about a contract in which the GOI always mentions '67%'. This is where the S.H.I.E.L.D. clears its role. Mr Pittsorlas was pleased and happy that the PPA was sold. And he was satisfied with the price he was sold for. But he didn't tell us. He only told us '67%'. He said attributes: “We don’t sell the facilities, we don’t sell land. All we sell is 67% of the shares of an anonymous company." Really? Aren't you selling land? You're selling everything! You're giving it all away! And he's in charge of HIAD. The HICP has started this whole story. The S.H.I.E.L.D. is the technical consultant. Wasn't the technical consultant involved in the work? And because the TIAD has been mocking us all these years, and now there will be a great superstition that can do anything without it coming from the House, I have to say that they are not just employees for the 'brows'. They're not just employees. They're doing a really nice game. It's agreed. We said yesterday to the committee that you can't sell a seaside corner shop since it's too low a share, since the Stock Exchange is too low. What manager would have done that to a private company and wouldn't have kicked him out? And here there are no criminal responsibilities! And we were very impressed by a paper produced by the FYROM, which says that the envisaged renegotiation procedure for the current contract has not been followed until now, and you were saying other things. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Kouzilos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As far as employment is concerned, for Article 10 and 11, after twenty-eight days you had to bring them, but after twenty-eight days of strike, after twenty-eight days on the sidewalk because there was no other solution for the workers. And can you tell us how long this has been going on? Why do I remember at least three or four months, and whoever looks at all the seafarers' press releases will see that for many months now that's what they've been telling you 'what we want? Two things. Insert us." And in fact, as you've brought them right now, they don't guarantee 100%. And right now whoever talks with them will see that there's still a problem. As we speak of work, you remember very well, Mr Dritsa, what was happening on the 'COSCO' with pier 2 when it was delivered, what the president of the FYROM said, with three messages at night, and 30 euros, for ten hours, with contractors. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Transitions are currently being requested by workers for this reason, because they do not want to become this regime, and most of them at the age of thirty to forty years. I mean, the workers in the PPA, the young people, right now, will be asking for a transfer, all of them. That's where we're going. Another question - and I shall end, Mr President, in one minute - is this. With the Attica Port System, with the four thousand and fifty what are we going to do? Does it affect the rest of the ports? That is very serious and must be answered. Also, the development programme, the PPA management study programme, who will define it? Because he writes in the contract that the PPA, that is, 'COSCO', will define it in accordance with his own commercial strategy and investment programme - so that we do not read it all. So, in essence, 'COSCO' will put the model. He says above that he will certainly also have supervised bodies in the public sector, but how will the clauses be activated once we are not a sovereign state? How will the clauses be activated once there's nothing to be done? How will all these clauses be activated? To remind you of the hypothetical case of submarines where there were clauses and not one activated. Just the same thing is going to happen with the PPA. To close, because I do not want to abuse your time any more, the fixed position of the People's Association - Golden Dawn is: Public ports...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u233	Mr. Kuzey, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u234	I shall conclude, Mr President. You now put your left signature on the sale of the PPA! Ladies and gentlemen, you've lost, defeated, compromised!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u235	I would ask the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Rabbit, to inform us within an hour about the roll-call vote they request, on what articles it will be. Give a note to the services to prepare the texts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u236	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u237	Okay, thanks. Now, I invite the special speaker of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR, Mr Odysseus Constantinople.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, after the necessary interruption, as the Minister said, we are coming back to see if simple legislative improvements were made. Look, Minister, I have in front of me the improvements you have made. In Article 5(1), ladies and gentlemen, the words'majority may not be exercised in a manner contrary to the conditions laid down in the ratified concession' shall be added. So everything he wrote so far is deleted with an "h". The fourth legislative improvement, ladies and gentlemen, on Article 9(1), is the same as that of 'COSCO'. Read the letter "COSCO" and you will see it. In Article 9(3), what 'COSCO' told you is the same. Read it in the letter. In the legislative improvement of Article 12(2), I will read to you what the previous article says and what you have put in it. It states in Article 12(2): ‘Specific technical details of the opening, closing, movement and operation of the common accounts and others referred to above. This contract may be concluded as a further contracting credit institution, which the trade unions in the common account and others are entitled to.’ These five lines are abolished and two and a half pages are coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u239	It's not even a page and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u240	Not even a half? I'll take your own version for a page and a half. Which says?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u241	You have them in your hands.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u242	It reads: Since the adoption of this law and subject to a different special arrangement, 10 regulations are withdrawn, repealed or denied. [[Z' Vice-President of Parliament Ms GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS]] Minister, I really would like to ask you honestly: why do you accept this political self-determination? You had a contract that you agreed with. The Prime Minister himself agreed to it. There was an entire process at the Maximos Mansion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u243	Say, please, what's going down?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u244	And you come in yourself, and apart from personal self-arming your own, the country and the government are self-determination. So you accept a company to tell you what to write.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u245	You asked for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u246	And I'm telling you, Minister: why, while you agreed before, did you not bring it all along? I wonder why all the Greeks will be wondering. Why are you doing this? What's the familiar thing you always do? It is well known that we are starting to negotiate proudly and end up at all, but at all levels, simply writing what we are told, both at the level of the troika and, now, at the level of a company. We, ladies and gentlemen, have supported it from day one, even though we have a different approach and we will see you later. But I wonder what other Members of Parliament who said, like "I remember my father saying that the Right will also sell the Acropolis. He did not live to see PASOK with the right to sell the country." The accident is he didn't live to see the Left and those who sign them sell them on their own!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u247	Honestly, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u248	The authors are here Members of the Greek Parliament! Ladies and gentlemen, like Mrs Gerovasili, she spoke of excessive fear, Mr Petropoulos spoke this morning and said, 'Why is there so much upsetting about the abolition of the CSCE?' It's an exaggeration, too! Unfortunately, everything you said and did will be found in front of you. And Mr Balaur said that 'if we were not a government, we would protest to the PPA against privatisation'. This is a supermarket government. Left and memorial and antimony! It is with privatization and without privatization! It is also about the mergers and the opposite of the mergers! And you only have one prerequisite to maintain authority. And because I've heard you say you're not a powerless man, I have no reason to believe that. Don't you think there's someone else qualified for SYRIZA just to sign it? Because he didn't do anything else. And you with an attitude to say "I will resign because I cannot stand this self-determination."
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u249	It's the weirdoes themselves!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u250	And yet, gentlemen, the Left is the Left of Power, the Left that does everything, just to remain in power. And now we're going to the rules. After all, you can also have a serious argument Mr Sevastakis has said. When they asked if the pensions were abolished, he said: "The pensions were rekindled"! Here you can say that the sanction has also been reproduced and the matter is closed. But now we are going to see what the serious negotiation you have made, Minister. Firstly, of course, Mr Kamaterres, there was not in the first and second memorandum the way you are voting today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u251	In 2014 you did it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u252	You were talking about 100% publicity. The new Republic had brought Mr Varvitsiotis' proposal. Can I tell you something? It is better to tell you that you are defending Varvitsiotis' proposal, rather than telling you what the Mayor of Keratini said yesterday, that this is a landfill. It's in the Minutes. It's better. You made a choice and said "we will take the choice of Varvitsiotis". And you say "Let's proceed to the transfers with the choice of Hatzidakis for "OLYMPIAKI". You look like it. That's the truth. But now let's go see exactly what the contract says. Minister, will the 'COSCO' pay? Is Article 10(1) not subject to v.4223/2013? I mean, he's gonna pay HISBIA, but do you left-wings grant the most profitable company not to pay HISBIA? Let's go to second. Tell me you leftists again, who are negotiating and negotiating, what is the net lending index to the total equity? Listen, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, what you will vote on. On the basis of the 2015 figures, the PPA funds were EUR 178 million and the short-term liabilities of EUR 187 million. So the net lending index was 0.7. And what do you give? You give the possibility for six times over. So you're giving the PPA the chance when after twenty-five years it's over, not the same one who left him today. What does that mean? It means it's going to be charged with whatever wonderful loans the company has taken. Are you voting for this, ladies and gentlemen? It's Article 13, 2b. Are you voting for this for the honor of authority, too? Ladies and gentlemen, we are now going to work.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u253	Who agreed to this? Are you going to drive us crazy? You agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u254	Please be quiet. Mr. Constantinople, please continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u255	Gentlemen, if you think that others agreed to them and you just stay in power, you can resign and come. Here comes the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u256	Say that's what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u257	Why would you take from New Democracy? You accept to be right. You're making a right-wing policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u258	While you're...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u259	The worst thing is to tell people that you can't do it, that they're just giving you and reading...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u260	Did you hear what the mayors said yesterday?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u261	They're criticizing their deal. What can we say now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u262	Calm down. Let the speaker continue. Please. Mr. Constantinople, continue your speech. Do not address the Members. Make your speech. I would like to point out that your time is up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u263	You think they're admiring you. There's a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u264	Mr. Constantinople, please continue your speech. Don't challenge them, or we'll have answers. It's not right. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u265	In the agreement of the first two Memorandums, there was no that. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would ask you, Mr President, to give me the tolerance you are giving to the others. The way in which it will be done - and I told you it was Mr Varvitsiotis' choice - entered the third memorandum negotiated by the SYRIZA - ANEL. We have said yes to privatization with a concession of functions from the beginning. And there is a typical example, it is the port of Limassol for which the competition has recently been held. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA has not just negotiated but, in fact, proved to you that it has given you even more. As for industrial relations, the interpretative statement by the Minister is simply his speech. That is why we, Minister, are going to put a roll-call vote on Rule 10A and we are sure that each of the Members of SYRIZA will take his responsibility. As far as the transfers are concerned, this is the only time left-wing government...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u266	It didn't exist before. This is the first time!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u267	Mr. Constantinople, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u268	This is the only time that the left government has switched workers to the public and has no cost at all for 'COSCO' not even for compensation. Let me ask you, since you didn't bring us the evidence. Why don't you say all the staff can be transferred? Of course not. Close the eye to some people that can be converted. And the 'COSCO' probably, but not for the majority of the workers. If you want, say - and bring it - that it will be for all the staff. Or else, change Article 10A as the workers have told you - we should all support it together - so that they feel work security and no one needs to leave the port.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u269	Hang up, Mr. Constantinople.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u270	Minister, you made your choices, and the citizens will give it to you! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u271	Before we give the floor to the next special speaker from the Communist Party, Mrs Manolakou, to say that I have heard Mr Constantinople - I am addressing the Democratic Assent and the Parliamentary Representative and her special speaker - to say that you will make a request for a roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u272	For this particular article, just for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u273	Yeah. Just making an impulse. Please, as has been done before by the previous President-in-Office, in good time, if you wish, to present your request, to be announced at the same time as Parliament's services to prepare themselves for the vote accordingly. Mrs Manolakos, a special speaker of the Communist Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u274	I will also use the time of dentistry, Mr President. The privatization of the PPA, which you brought in yesterday and is voted on in a few hours, is not only challengingly anti-popular and anti-Semitism, but also inter-Semitism. Although in the best way all of you who have made government - New Democracy, PASOK, SYRIZA, ANEL - you have served privileges and profitability of the Chinese monopoly, and you were even competing just now in the Chamber who serves it better, but it is a miserable, blackmailing and demanding an even cleaner and absolute description of the harder conditions that ensure its profitability. And you called them 'legislative improvements'. This is the greed of the capital you serve. And it is not just the letter sent to the Members. There are others, more than a month now, at the request of this group, before the ratification of the convention in Parliament, with various pretexts you closed two PPA tanks, which used them from the ship repair zone to make ship repairs. The workers in the zone did not have time for the last few days to do, although there were a few jobs. The boot of the monopolies skates everything, and you shine it, so it doesn't seem like you're serving it. In Article 10A, you exempt them from HICP and other taxes, which mayors said yesterday, while ensuring in the contract persecution in any form of labour mobilisation and do not tolerate any legislative change that may affect the minimum privileges. Otherwise they require compensation. At the same time, they will enjoy millions of euros from the Juncker package - free money from the people - from taxing policy against the peoples and the Greek people, who are being smashed with your policy at the level of their lives and the basic people's needs and rights. It is known that more than 40% of investment will be from the ESRB, perhaps development law and other programmes, apart from tax exemptions. For example, the extension of the passenger port will be subsidised by 95%, i.e. EUR 136 million. That is why, as long as there are those who benefit, the monopoly groups will continue to demand more and more. They cannot exist without the exploitation of the labour force. This system doesn't change, it's not fixed, but it's overthrown. That is why the crime of the completion of the PPA's privatisation is continuing. It continues where the previous governments have left it and your guilt is seen in the form of the urgency you are using provokingly and cynically, so that you do not actually allow a debate revealing the size of hypocrisy, mockery and the government's commitment to serve consistently and quickly the interests of monopolies against the rights of workers, people and the country. And let us say that you are safeguarding jobs and employment relations. They are words without reflection, as is the interpretation of Article 10A. After all, the president of HIAD was revealing yesterday in his position. He said: "During the contract the work could not be solved" and he did not hide that the contract was the one prepared by the previous New Democracy Government, because, he explained, he could not open a debate on changes in the model you received. However, in all these areas you do not, HISPIA, pension, tax, VAT etc.Huh? Did you bring back any of the things you condemned and say red lines? Nothing. They're ashes and bourbers! You kept it all up and keep it going. That is why it is not surprising that the parties of the Euromonstrate and the memoranda are voting with you on the convention of shame and that they are trying to oppose the same policy that they have and which they have in their programme. Of course, the privatisation of ports is a legislative directive from the European Union of monopolies, which has been launched by the New Democracy, which has been enthusiastic about this, which has been continued by PASOK and has been separating good and bad privatisation. However, workers in the same horrific conditions are working further and will continue to work with the completion of the contract. The convention has been delayed because there has been strong competition from the various monopolies. Always in every privatization of weights are considered to be the workers. Maybe the team redundancies you'll bring in soon, why are they being promoted? To prosecute mass, team, workers, to get other cheaper. So the delay was not a matter of consultation and negotiation. It's just a very large fillet and it ensures the best and gives guarantees of great profitability. Moreover, this is described at the beginning of the contract, which says that the port of Piraeus has a coastline of more than twenty kilometers, with a surface of more than five million square meters, that it is a vital hub of transport, trade, supplies, tourist service, communications, that it connects the Greek islands with the mainland, that it is an international centre of maritime tourism and the transport of goods, that it favours its operation as a port for both the wider region of Greece and the Balkans and the countries of the Black Sea and much more. I mention them, to hear about what crime is committed over time by all governments. The fact is that the privatisation of the PPA is part of the strategic planning of the monopolies, adding new suffering to the lives of workers driven to slaughter and to the people. The main thing, however, is that although Piraeus is a gateway to entry and exit of goods, combined economic activities in Southeast Europe, focusing on combined transport and cruise, large profits are not for workers but for business groups. In these areas, monopolistic interests, with a high degree of concentration, are produced most of the country's GDP and thousands are workers in shipping, in sectors related to port operations, shipbuilding repairs, tourism and the transport sector, such as rail. The privatisation, which is completed by SYRIZA - ANEL, is part of the planning of the urban order that serves the competitiveness and profitability of capital and tries to hide behind government propaganda for fair growth, for the benefit of investment for all, that we have saved jobs and employment rights etc. The mockery and the hypocrisy of all her majesty! And Article 10a and Article 11 are very clear. The General Rules of Procedure and the General Staff Regulations may be changed by decision of the new Board of Directors of the PPA SA. It's very clear. In addition, Chapter IZ of the new contract also states that all port authorities will be awarded contracts and concessions. And it is well known that the mining of industrial relations, which the 'COSCO' will of course continue with the government's permission and legitimacy. But also, the transfers do not concern everyone and stumble in the many ministerial decisions that may never come out. We do not believe that in the form of the PPA, it was working in favour of workers. Especially for the port workers of the PPA in recent years, they may not have belonged to 'COSCO', but when they would have had a job and what would have been on every ship defining the monopoly. After all, and with a public PPA for so many years, the operation is boiling in the port with a 35% or more wage reduction. You helped all governments to do that. There were accidents at work, payrolls to shipmen, miners and, more generally, the port of Piraeus used it as the home of the "FRONTEX" for the supply of warships, for their war operations against the peoples of the wider region. That is why the working class and the people should not enter the dilemma of which capitalist and how they will be exploited if they are the alpha or beta monopoly or the urban state. He must lay down his way for a truly philosophical perspective on the basis of meeting her own needs, the working class. Capitalist development is surely centred on its capital and needs rather than on the working class and the popular strata. You may develop expectations that jobs will be created or new jobs will be opened or small businesses will be strengthened that will be active next to monopolies. But these posts will not give jobs to the thousands of who are unemployed in Piraeus. It is not going to restore the broken working rights that you have achieved, and they even come new with collective redundancies, limitation on strike and a reduction in eroded wages and so on. That is why we say neither privatization nor public PPAs in the interests of monopolies. We are voting against, assuming that this is a negative development for the workers and the people, because it extends the activity of the monopolies, which means a intensity of the exploitation of the working class and a further attack on the rights, because more and more monopolies are bound up, which means that, depending on the extent to which they will gain, it will directly affect the life and work of the entire sectors and regions. Piraeus, as a whole, the ports and infrastructures of the country for us can become a lever of real growth and prosperity for workers and people's families only when they are exploited for the needs of competitiveness and profitability of capital. This can be done when subjected to a scientific design based on the fulfilment of social needs. As far as the amendments that have been incorporated into the articles are concerned, we are voting against what is going on in the WIPO. We are also voting in favour of the Port House, with the exception of Article 15, which we wish to vote on, but paragraph 4 prevents us from doing so. We are opposed, because the Integrated Maritime Surveillance Service is a body that determines the participation of the port in joint operations with the port bodies of other countries of the European Union, with the 'FRONTEX' in even off-border operations. So in no case do we consent. If you remove paragraph 4, we shall vote in favour. Finally, Article 19 on fertilizers will be voted on. It needed an appendix for an accurate topographic chart to demarcate the area. However, it would like to add to the second paragraph of the word 'definitional' after the word 'is granted' and, of course, the third paragraph needed legislative authorization to regulate these issues by means of a joint ministerial decision and a deadline for their adoption, that is, an improvement to the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. Mr Dannelis, a special speaker from the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u276	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this fiasco for the government, the Greek Parliament, was due to the government and could have avoided it. If the ambiguity, which has always characterised it for the port, had not been overcome, there was no reason to speed up the ratification of the contract with 'COSCO'. The unreliability picture, which the government sent, but the country, to each investor, is a disaster. At the same time, I regret, ladies and gentlemen, that it is easy to awaken its rhetorical division. "With us or the enemy." It's unacceptable. I had the impression that the age of patriots and germans has passed unreturned and that by experiencing the unacceptable phenomena of violence, the completely condemned without an asterisk, and trabucism against the officials of the government or SYRIZA throughout Greece, they would create the preconditions for estimating the catastrophe of this methodology, which many had previously adopted. Unfortunately, I do not see my'start knowledge' in such a central theme of the functioning of public life. Ladies and gentlemen, ports, and indeed national importance, are key tools for producing national wealth. They have been part of the basic infrastructure for the development of a site over time. In fact, it could nowadays also be an essential arm of the famous blue development, in which Greece seems to be deaf, while it could become a strategic tool for exiting the country from the crisis. In the light of this, their exploitation is not unreasonable. In the present historical context, hallucinations, dramatic tones, ideoleptic crowns and emotionally charged words cannot provide solutions. We've seen it anyway. All these expressions of enthusiasm contributed to and contribute to the maintenance of a deeply-rooted statist state, whose fatal result is the coexistence, clientism and, of course, the strangulation of every healthy entrepreneurship effort. But now we are in another reality, whether we like it or not. The country needs to get away from the vicious circle of the next dose, the eternal lending, the ongoing inefficient support programmes, which are, of course, extremely doubtful whether they will continue to exist in the new European reality after 2018. The damocles of bankruptcy that have been contagious over the country for the last six years - and continues - create a particularly hostile environment for investment, small or large. It is certain that we need to adapt both our choices and our practices and strategies. We need an extensive change, for example, which also requires the adoption of a new vocabulary. Words or expressions, such as "spring of silver", "to the hammer" or "sold for a piece of bread", not only do they contribute to public dialogue, but also do not help to break taboo, which is the use of public property even today. And this is a vocabulary that we must not forget, with which the Greek society has been lactating for many years now. It's a vocabulary that hurt her deeply and divided her. The findings of a recent very serious survey of "PUBLIC ISSUE" entitled "City - Port", conducted in the 1st and 2nd Piraeus Region are indicative. On the one hand, citizens have a positive picture of both the PPA and the 'COSCO'. They believe that privatisation of the PPA will have positive consequences in critical areas, such as strengthening the international position of the port, infrastructure projects, creating new jobs, improving services to passengers and users and, above all, the development of the area. However, at the same time only 37% of the public opinion is drafted by the privatisation of the port, while 46% disagree. This is a deep internal contradiction between the piracy society for which she is not responsible. The public political speech has been deeply biased for a number of years and the responsibilities are heavily burdened by the then opposition and current government. Many have invested and embodied in building this division. Today - I told the committee - it would be like we were stealing a snail by listing statements, slogans, reactions, changes of opinion, hundreds of eighty-three-degree turns that characterized the approach of this issue in terms of many SYRIZA officials, since they were in opposition, up to a year and a half that is a government. Of course, we must not forget, because only through self-awareness can we go out wiser and not make the same mistakes again. At the same time, however, it makes no sense to continue on this road. The demagogic opposition - we have seen it - does not only help, but undermines the national effort. Of course, it is sometimes self-evident, as in the case of your own, that you have been committed within your own time, rather than having contributed critically, but creatively, to the result which is being sought and sought, which is nothing other than to secure the public interest in the rational and beneficial management of public property, by rules, in terms of regulations and, of course, by the subsequent supervision of the implementation of these conditions. So only public wealth could become a tool for creating conditions for growth. Just today we can and begin to say with coolness that we are not talking about selling the port of Piraeus but about selling the shares of the company that has undertaken the management of the port infrastructure and the use of the port for a certain period of time, and that is not self-evident for many. As it is not self-evident for everyone that business is engaged in business and investors that create goodwill and not a superfood state, which in addition is a commitment to customerism and agglomerations. That is what we consent to in this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, time is known to be money. The privatization of the PPA lasted for more than two years. The procedure itself, if the other delays are not taken into account, until the competition has been opened, lasted for five years, from 2011 to 2016, until today. If we had an elementary understanding between ourselves, on other terms we would have discussed today and more we would have won for the country, and that must be clear for everyone. The interested parties have had to wait two whole years to close the issue of the infamous friendly settlement. Consider it not to be friendly and not to be both sides seeking to find a common basis. If there were sound conditions for a responsible political dialogue between the political parties in the country, we may have also adopted a different model of demobilisation and consequent development of the port and much more. Minister, what concerns us and concerns us about the rationality of choices is Article 11 on the transfer of personnel. This article creates a paradox, a privatization and even a large-scale increase in the public sector. It's like a magical picture. All this is happening without an integrated programming and, of course, without a substantial assessment from the General Accounting Office of the State. The question of protecting excess staff in any privatisation is, of course, a central issue for the governments concerned. It is a social and political problem, which must be adequately addressed. Greece's recent history is inconsistent, irrational and unfair to the taxpayer of such examples. The voluntary exits of staff with the fat pensions from OTE, with the "OLYMPIAKI" - the most important example - but also the mismanagement of staff both in the closure and in the opening of ERT prove the truth. There has been no serious discussion in our country about the care to be taken in such cases. In this case, it seems essentially the entire price of privatisation, instead of meeting the real needs of the Greek State within a 15-year horizon, is evaporated into the wage requirements resulting from the process of switching the current workers to the public sector if the whole goes to the public sector. Also, we need to answer the question raised regarding the transfer wall, as well as the planning of the needs of the services that will be hosted by staff of the PPA today and the Port Authority of Thessaloniki tomorrow. Is this regulation a kind of bosom for workers' transfers from the rest of the public enterprises, such as the 'TRAINOSE' or those who join the new supranational, i.e. urban transport, OSE, ELTA etc.? What exactly does that cost? Ladies and gentlemen, our economy is facing the commitment to achieving a very high primary surplus in 2018, although in a growing, escalating recession over a year. The real economy is affected by subtle avalanches that have taken the form of an avalanche that creates a domino of negative developments in the real economy. This obliges you to reduce public spending, as we see today with the cutting of the EKT to a hundred and fifty thousand micro-enterprises of EUR 600 and 700, and it should lead you to speeding up the privatizations and creating a pro-investment climate. With obsessed and old tactics I think you even sabotage privatisations, against your will maybe. But that's the result. And you do not understand that European reality is changing rapidly. In the post-Brexit era, in the European Charter, as it forms, beyond the major problems which are undoubtedly created, we should process these opportunities that are created or appear to open. Should we not exhaust the possibility of creating the conditions for Piraeus to welcome the European Maritime City now that it has suddenly been outside Europe? Unfortunately, however, such a substantial, but also a difficult debate seems to be a utopia with this climate in our country's political life. We must, however, very quickly, ladies and gentlemen, reverse this reality, which does not lead us to an exit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u277	Thank you, Mr. Dannelly. Since I don't see the next two speakers following, I would suggest that the first speaker be given the floor on the speaker list, which is Mr. Armalene. We will give the floor to this and I believe that the special speakers will come and take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u278	Are we going to join the parliamentary representatives, or are we going to wait for the speakers to be done first?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u279	I was going to announce it after we were finishing the special speakers' cycle. In view of the fact that the two special speakers have not appeared so far and we have given the floor to Mr Armalene, who is the first speaker, I would suggest that a Parliamentary spokesman should be intervened every two speakers. Parliamentary representatives have already declared Mr Dendias to be first, then Mrs Vaki and Mr Loverdos third. I would also ask the other parliamentary representatives slowly to declare.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u280	Could I, with the colleagues' permission, precede, be because I have a very serious job at 18:30, and then speak to Mr. Armalene?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u281	I know, Mr Katsotis. If other colleagues, the other groups, agree, we shall give Mr Katsotis the floor. They're on the first group of speakers after Mr. Armalene.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u282	All right, Mr. Katatotis. Please, Mr. Symblene, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u283	Thank you, Mr President. Although you caught me a little bit in surprise, because I was expecting both of the other speakers to speak, I'm going to develop my mind as well. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are debating today the ratification of a concession contract between the Greek State and the PPA SA. This agreement is the result of a course initiated under the ‘COSCO’ Convention in 2008 and evolved into the decision of the Government of Samara - Venizelos for full privatisation and the friendly arrangement of 2013-14. The agreement that we are bringing today certainly is the product of a compromise between the country and the lenders, as was recorded last year by L.4336/2015. Let us not forget that the ESS, which you have constantly invoked today, has voted, ladies and gentlemen, for pensioners to listen to. The EESC until 2019- the end of 2019-2020- is phased out gradually by the vote of two hundred and twenty Members of Parliament and our party and the New Democracy and the PASOK and the River. Inside this n.4336 there was also the privatization of the ports of Piraeus and Thessaloniki. However, the agreement that we are bringing today provides for the port of Piraeus a clearly improved reality than the one agreed by the previous government. It provides and validates in its legislative expression the dominant concept of concession, which differs qualitatively from the full privatisation, which is reflected in the title and in the role of the public as expressed in the unambiguous responsibilities of the Minister and the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, as well as in the establishment of the Public Authority of Ports, established in the previous law, which ensures the role of state supervision in the port of Piraeus and the other ports of the country. This is precisely what it has been defining and harmonising with European port policy, which has been enshrined for years as a policy of concessions and which remains to be monitored in public and self-government rather than as a policy of destabilisation. So he wonders what the view of today's Opposition is. Obviously, the New Democracy is still moving into the logic that the Samara - Venizelos government had adopted at the time. The Democratic Reconciliation, which is very welcome for our attitude, focusing on its arrows and against the Minister very thoroughly, what view does the speaker of the Democratic Alliance support? The attitude he has signed with the Samara Government on full privatisation or supports the European port policy of concessions? This has not been made clear at all, because it is currently on two boats. On the one hand, it wants to appear to be in complete contrast with both SYRIZA and New Democracy, and on the other, it basically accedes to what it had signed and is, of course, repressed by the Members of the New Democracy. Here I would like to quote: dear colleagues of the Opposition because you have failed to make this government of SYRIZA, the Independent Greeks and the Greens a 'left parentheses' and now hope for the next September, you have now targeted each of the ministers of this government and every week you are asking us to resign. Of course, you're asking us to quit all together. We're not doing you a favor! And I say that, not in the sense that we're stuck in some power and some chairs. We were in this position to defend the interests of the Greek people and we will defend them to the end through these difficult conditions, through this difficult path, which opened after the historic victory on January 25, 2015, proceeded with a tough compromise and is now moving on after our second re-election on September 20, 2015. So the agreement is another agreement. It is an agreement that won three key issues - in addition to the others that have been said and I do not want to say them again - which are the following: the first issue is the question of public control by setting up and the Public Port Authority. The second issue is the exclusion of the wider area of Drapetsona and Keratini, the Lipamona zone. The third issue is the question of industrial relations. We are creating and guaranteeing every day a clear framework of respect for labour relations and we guarantee the jobs of workers in ports and in Piraeus and Thessaloniki. You criticized us for the transfers. And says Mrs Kefaliannis: 'If the Chinese do not need the workers, what will be the cost for the public?' So what are you suggesting, Mrs. Kefaliannis? Should these workers be thrown out on the street if they don't get the public? So the transfers for you were supposed to be redundancies?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u284	How are you gonna pay them? You have not taken the cost from the General Accounting Office of the State. He needs the cost.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u285	Is that what you're suggesting? I would also like to say one last word, because there was a lot of talk about the letter 'COSCO'. In fact, we are wondering why, with such an intensity, the spokesman for the Democratic Incorporation was asked to come to the COSCO representative's Chamber when in all the discussions that are taking place on contracts it is never called a representative of a company, but only representatives of the bodies are called. What's behind this insistence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, Mr. Armalene. Mr Katsotis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u287	Thank you, Mr President. The SYRIZA-ANEL coup d'état says the Minister was unable to implement its vision, compromised, changed cruising forcefully, and thus brings for ratification the concession agreement of the PPA to 'COSCO'. But what does he claim? Everything that made improvements, didn't leave the contract as the previous ones had formed it, which was worse. It restates the logic of less evil, in order to conceal precisely the crime of privatisation that the capital is demanding, the European Union, the parties that serve it. He is trying to hide precisely the satisfaction of the needs of the monopolistic groups to extend their activities, to new areas of profitability. The same answer, of course, is given by the government for all other major overturns in wages, pensions, taxation, for all that comes to satisfy the needs of large capital. You're here, gentlemen of SYRIZA, to manage the needs of the monopolistic groups. They trust you, because you are giving them everything they ask for, tax exemptions, tax exemptions, cheap labour force, guaranteed profits, a reduction in the minimum trade union democratic rights, an employer's right to have full subordination of the working class. Workers as a whole, like those in the port, must see the real opponent, the one who steals from him the wealth he produces, the one responsible for the great deadlocks, the millions of suffering he is suffering. This opponent serves all the parties in Parliament except the JRC. The capital, the monopolistic groups, the European Union, other imperialist organisations that make up, and their political staff are precisely against the people's needs. The major overthrows of labour, insurance and trade rights are requirements of capital that are legislated by parties supporting this rotten system. The JRC is against privatization of the PPA, because it is a negative development for workers, for the people, because it is precisely because the activities of the monopolies are expanding. What does a monopoly mean to extend its activities? It means even greater exploitation of workers, as well as of those who are moving around the activities that are being developed. The examples of privatization and its developments are many. Do you want to remind OTE who was awarded to the 'DEUTSCHE TELECOM'? What developments have we had with labour rights? Didn't we have redundancies? Or do the so-called voluntary departures change the result, which is to reduce jobs or to exempt from old workers with built-in rights and to employ young people with broken labour and insurance rights that increase profitability? Didn't you see the result of privatization? Didn't we have a hit on the fixed job? We didn't have contractors, fixed-term contracts, pay cuts? We didn't have the separation through a contract of government and employers' union to old and young workers with a different pay? Should we talk about OLYMPIAKE? Wasn't labour developments there the same? We have therefore had a deeper exploitation of the workers as a whole. Isn't there all this arsenal, Minister, in order to overtake internal regulations and other supposed commitments by 'COSCO'? Do we not currently have unpaid, non-application of collective agreements, non-payment of compensation? Do we not have de facto application here of what great capital demands in the workplace? You don't know them? Don't you see them? Don't you hear them? But let's see another side, which is the service to the people. You will tell me that the port provides services mainly to the businesses that carry their goods. But don't these goods reach the people with the cost of port services embedded? Would that cost be less? But if it becomes smaller, will it not be the result of a greater reduction in the price of the labour force, which the business group will employ in the port? The claim that new jobs will be created or that new jobs will be opened and small businesses operating alongside monopolies will be strengthened cannot convince because the practice of each business group is completely different. Any positions which comply with the so-called 'best practices', i.e. those which apply and strengthen competitiveness, will be in line with the so-called 'best practices'. Is it impossible for COSCO to implement the mini-jobs, zero-time contracts, full elasticisation of working time, settlement, all this European Union arsenal that you have also legislated here? So you're not going to give the thousands of unemployed. You are not going to restore working rights. The working class and the people need to follow a course of overthrow and break with this policy, aiming for real power. The labour, popular movement itself, workers themselves need to put forward a framework for claims to cover losses, claiming real needs, a framework for collective agreements, wages, health and safety, particularly in this area of work. Meet the class trade unions. To take part in the gathering on Monday at the Ministry of Labour on payroll, collective agreements, on all these problems that today experience thousands of workers. The port of Piraeus, such as a total of the ports and infrastructures of the country, can become a lever of real growth and prosperity for workers and people's families only when they are exploited for the needs of competitiveness and capital, but when they are submitted to a scientific project in order to satisfy the social needs. Such a plan presupposes the removal of power from the bourgeoisie, the unnecessary, parasitic part of production, the capitalists. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. It presupposes that the means of production become social property, which will only take place when the working class takes over power. In this context, labour power can be implemented by state bodies of labour power in transport, ship repair, industry, in order to become levers of real growth and prosperity by offering stable work with rights, contributing to the social, cultural and economic development of all of our people. We are voting against the ratification of the concession agreement on 'COSCO'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u288	Thank you, Mr. Katsotis. Mr Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u289	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, good evening. The way we legislate was best described by our parliamentary representative, Mr Karras, this morning. I don't need to expand. All the previous ones have been placed. I'll move on to the point. We were led to an interruption of the meeting, having heard the divine of us lined 'who are you with?' Minister, we are certainly right, with the Greek state and the interest of the Greek state. I'm sure we're not with you. And when I mention you, I mean the government. We saw things going on in our agreement with 'COSCO' this afternoon. We're becoming an international laughing stock once again. The Chinese announced that we unilaterally changed or abolished seven articles of the Convention. And you brought the bill to the House unilaterally amended as if nothing had happened. This is not happening anywhere in the world! You tell us that the Chinese in their letter have been raped to denounce you, since in reality these changes concern adjustments to Greek legislation. ‘COSCO’ mentions, for example, that you deleted paragraph 3 of Article 9, which corresponds to Article 10 of the agreed draft legislative law, and this considers it to be the most important of the changes that you have made. What does this article say? That the public administration must respond within a specified period of time to grant approval after such studies have been submitted. It refers to the process of compulsory investments to be made by the 'COSCO'. Look out! The Chinese have asked for the reasonable reason, the self-evident thing that should apply to all private companies: it should not delay the Greek State to respond to their investment plans. You did not initially accept it either in the case of this large investment in 'COSCO'. You want to keep your right to the blockage, the opacity, the speedy...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u290	These to others, not to us. To others, the fastest.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u291	Please don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u292	Please don't interrupt, Mr. Theonas. Let the speaker speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u293	Look around - around. Are there any quick signals today?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u294	You want to allow various experts to address foreign investors and to request indirectly to follow the approach in the pocket bag, i.e. to give the civil servant the opportunity to proceed with their application. ‘COSCO’ says that this is the main reason why it can cause an cancellation of an agreement. If they knew it in the first place, they wouldn't even have submitted the offer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u295	The fast ones, not the left, elsewhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u296	Mr President, please, I cannot go on like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u297	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u298	But to us fast? A little respect doesn't hurt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u299	Mr. Theonas, please. He has a right to say what he thinks is right. Please don't interrupt. Mr. Georgiadis, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u300	When you were talking about it, it was good. Now that you're government, you don't like to hear them. It is only shame that we really feel from this attitude. However, the Minister, Mr Dritsas, has announced to Parliament the changes, saying that the government will examine the letter and make the improvements it will judge. In short, you have been caught in action and you have indirectly accepted your error but clearly. You have once again exposed us to your jokes and incredible amateurisms. Of all this seems, on the one hand, that you have nothing to do with the market and, on the other, that you believe that, by backstage methods, you can once achieve something in your favour. Greater and upbringed in the party tube you suddenly got to close billion-dollar agreements. But in a few months, as gentlemen, you cannot learn to work.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u301	Why do you talk without knowing?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u302	This is what we denounce as a Centro Association from the beginning of governance that, in order to avoid further humiliation of our country, we need technocratic prestiges, who will take the case with knowledge and responsibility, which are clearly missing from you. I am making relevant sources of what I am referring to. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You tell us in a thousand ways directly and squarely that ratification of the convention was a prerequisite for Beijing to result in Mr Tsipras' visit to China, 2 to 6 July.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u303	A little more respect for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u304	When did you learn that? Yesterday? You've been in contact with the Chinese for a long time. For a long time we have known that this journey is being planned. Therefore, your effort to surprise and to ensure that the current draft is passed on to Parliament is clear and clear. But you are used to us and defeat for our democracy is exactly that. If there were to be no Parliament, not to pass the bills from parliamentary control at all, it would perhaps be for you - so that I wouldn't get any misunderstanding - the best. But let's look more specifically at this situation. We, as the Central Association, believe that the state must maintain a supervisory and regulatory role in critical parts of our economy. But we are against raw intervention in areas and activities in which there is no need for state involvement. The State must limit its business, because, as has been shown in the past, this leads to the giganticisation of the client state and the undivided domination. The Greek state over the last forty years has achieved the only thing it has done is to produce deficits and create the black hole in public debt. So trustworthy to these principles, we, as the Union of Centres, conceptually and strategically, agree with privatisation. Privatisations, however, require specific implementation standards. There should be sufficient consultation time with stakeholders, as well as a specific strategic development and revenue plan for the public. We must treat privatisation as an opportunity to develop and be willing to move in the direction of the smaller and more efficient state. And here's the problem. You in the past as SYRIZA, the current shareholders of the government scheme, have been an obstacle to any attempt to demobilise. As a result, the procedures were delayed and investors' confidence in the Greek state was nullified. So today we are reaching extortionist militia. A characteristic example of timeless anomaly in the procedure is Mr Anomeritis' observation in his recent letter to the President of Parliament. It states that, in March 2014, the Board of Directors of the GOD opened the tender for the sale of 67% of the shares in the PPA SA, without considering alternatives to the public interest. In other words, the process - Mr Anomeritis continues - has been unreliable and irregular, particularly for an international competition. One of the original eight companies concerned came to the final stage only, ‘COSCO’. In fact, the Chinese company proceeded with the investment proposal via offshore in the Virgin Islands the ‘COSCO HONG KONG LTD’, which was even known by the infamous Panama Papers. The final sales price also emerged extremely downwards, according to the fall and the stock index. This and only evidence is capable of causing chains of court proceedings in both Greek and European courts. Foreign-exchange behaviour, both in the current government and in the past, of course, is seen by the massive strikes in the trade unions in the sectors concerned. For example, in the 2017 tourist season, the negative impacts on the cruise from the port workers' strike in the port of Piraeus will be reflected. The rate of passenger booking for next year is particularly worrying and has already started to give rise to a great deal of thought in the circles of the Greek tourist market. And this has a chain reaction not only in the case of Piraeus but also in Thessaloniki. Already the downward movement has started since this year, although since most of the trips have been closed since last year, the phenomenon has not taken much proportions so far. In this climate, to see how comicotragic the investment and development climate associated with the PPA is, there is still a problem with refugees in the port. In this climate, with the assessment that by 20 July, the port of Piraeus is expected to have been completely dismantled by immigrants and refugees, the Minister made statements at an event on immigration - refugee. All these acts and omissions of the government are extremely disappointing. I make the relevant statements from the Minister on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Therefore, we should not rush to celebrate. As I have seen in the committee, the investments made at the port on the basis of a bill are small, with regard to those which the Chinese would have done if the process had been started and completed smoothly. Even the economic giant in China doesn't trust us for investment. The bureaucracy of this huge public sector is a blocking factor in any attempt to invest by any trustworthy investor. And within all this we have the capital controls of the government's proud negotiation! It's been a year, we've received blessings, we've turned candles! We won't wish you a hundred centimeters, because that wouldn't be a wish, it would be a curse. We have political instability, deflation, social unrest and strike movements, recession and a huge and inefficient public. Within all this wrong and unhealthy banking system, as many leisure trips as you can, in any country of the Eastern or Western world, Prime Minister, all you can do is entertain and enjoy your holidays! Trust is not being cultivated by foreign visits. Trust is cultivated by market indicators and by the efficiency of the State. These are things they seem to be, they're not hidden or we can no longer hide them under the rug. We have taken a positive stand on the principle of this draft law, and we look back on the articles in the relevant vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u305	Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis. Mr Varvitsiotis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u306	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think we have all lived in a theatre, the theatre of the allegedly negotiating, of the so-called resisting, of the supposedly public interest, of whom I am SYRIZA, of whom I am the government and the Minister. That's what we've been living in the last few days. They allegedly entered things that were allegedly protecting the public interest, and these after a letter from 'COSCO' were withdrawn, replaced, introduced exactly as the 'COSCO' requested, and today you say 'we tried'. Theater! Theatre, very poor theatre, because this bad theatre has two forms of reflection. Already international news agencies transmit your unreliability - the "REUTERS" a moment ago - but young people, hoping that sometime they will open up jobs in this country, feel a very great mockery. What did you tell us for two days? That you've proudly negotiated. I really want to know what you have achieved these months, what you have achieved, what better than what you had in front of you and you should have negotiated you have improved.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u307	The mayors said it yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u308	Should I just say? Yesterday 'COSCO' arrives in a letter and invites you to keep as little as you agree. You say that it asks in the second paragraph that the studies it submits cannot be in vain when they will be approved by the Ministry. It comes today with the legislative improvements, the Minister accepts it. It says that it is not possible for the demilitarized PPA to award tenders according to public bodies, but as a private body. This is also a key reason for privatisation. You come today, you change it. You accepted everything. What you were sent to the committee yesterday, you accepted it in the legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u309	There were, Mr. Varvichiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u310	Don't cry, they don't match you, Mr. Dritsa. Don't be a "Sprirtzis"! He's crying a lot better than you! Get another role. I saw you a moment ago. Honestly, I didn't recognize you. You told us that you achieved through your proud negotiation amazing changes. Did you raise the price in eighteen months from what they intended to propose at first? Oh, no. Did you increase the percentage that the public gets? It was 4% at the beginning of the PPA's turnover that was going to the public service. What did you bring? You brought 3.5%. Did you give anything back to the municipalities? 1% of the turnover was planned to go in favor of the municipalities with the distribution you have in the article. But it's not going from the PPA. He will go from the Greek public and "no dope than dot". Not even a minimum amount is provided in the device you bring. You told us that you gave back the properties, which was a permanent claim of the Municipality of Piraeus. The municipality's claim was that PAGE, the well-known exhibition building of the PPA, should come to its ownership. Is he coming around? Oh, no. The fact that you are giving fertilisers, a political decision of yours, has already caused trembling. Have you received the National Fair? Does the National Bank agree? Does Mrs Katselli agree with what you're doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u311	Are you against it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u312	Will this act be completed as you describe it or will there be another five hundred amendments at some point to complete this concession? You tell us that you have managed to break the sale in two places, that is, instead of selling 67%, 51% is currently sold and 16% after a few years. Yes, but when you sell 16%, you will sell it again at the same price today. What will be the benefit? Will it increase its value? Honestly, I wondered before - I want to say it - Mr Dragon's skills. He did not once say the word 'COSCO', perhaps because it is so heavy for the same person who protested and said that he is building a Dahow job in Piraeus to come today to defend the agreement. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] As with regard to workers, we say that you have managed not to change working regulations, current legislative improvements and amendments, this right returns to the employer, in accordance with the existing legislation on how to draw up working regulations. I'm saying that so we don't get confused. The opening of the window for some changes in the future and whenever it wanted to emerge, to close the eye to some trade unionists, is not about the Greek society that is struggling and thirsty for investment and jobs. We are pleased that a great effort started by Kostas Karamanlis in 2008 with the strategic alliance with China and continued by Antonis Samaras with the extension of the strategic alliance and the strategic choice for the militarisation of the PPA, comes with the votes of the Left, which becomes the second PASOK, because PASOK has said the same in the past. Then he said 'no', then he came with us, went to a point and today he finds out that he has a different viewpoint. Anyway, let's find them in PASOK too how they want them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But you are coming today with the votes of the mighty Left to vindicate politics. I was expecting you to say one thing. I expected you to say, "Unfortunately, we failed. The others were right. The New Democracy was right, and today we apply the right thing" and do not cry. I expected you not to hide and go proudly to China and say "We made a strategic alliance, we destabilised the PPA, as governments have committed themselves over time and we want to deepen this relationship". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u313	Thank you, Mr. Varvitsiotis. We shall give the floor to the President of the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group, Mr Michaloliaco. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u314	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as the previous spokesman of the New Democracy said, you can be proud of the sale of the country's first port. Since the New Democracy tells you that you must be proud, you should probably be concerned somewhere about what your policy has to do with what you have declared and what you are supposed to believe. We see another sale for the sake of memoranda and a three-hour cut in Parliament's work to get together with a private company. And there is one amendment tabled by the Golden Dawn in favour of workers. And here is the paradox: a government of communist, even renewing, and a state-owned company of a communist state to blame the workers and one, according to your established phrase, a fascist party to defend the interests of the workers! The New Democracy fully agrees with this crime, with the sale of the port of Piraeus. I would like to mention, however, very briefly, the two main points of the political dialogue over the last few days, the electoral law and the revision of the constitution, which the government considered should have no say and did not call on the representative of the third political power of the country to discuss. However, we are neither because the government wants it nor because it wants the whole political parties to do so. We are because the Greek people want it. And whether they want it or not, Golden Dawn is the country's third political power. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] This is the great anguish - since I spoke about the electoral law - both Mr Mitsotakis and his political advisor, as he stated in an interview with Mr Theodorikos. "We can't work with SYRIZA because then the Golden Dawn opposition will become." Is that your problem? Golden Dawn? In fact, you speak as a constitutional bow, excluding the Golden Dawn from this bow, including the KKE, which - and to its credit - was consistent with what he ideologically supports by his Secretary-General, who in interview said that if there is a government, elections will be re-elections as they were held on Stalin. Otherwise, we are against the Constitution! But, you see, here dominates other laws, which have nothing to do with logic. The New Democracy propaganda about the electoral law is trying to trap Golden Dawn. And he wants to say no more, not much that if we decide to vote on SYRIZA's electoral law, we are 'urban'. And SYRIZA, for his part, says that if we don't vote for the electoral law, we're "urban" of the New Democracy. Well, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We're neither with each other nor with each other. We are against all and we will serve the Greek nation. And on that basis we will decide what we decide when the time comes. And we will be whether you want it or not - to everyone - the regulators for what will happen. But, mercyfully, stability and the political system are at stake! Do you think the people are happy with stability and the political system? You're making a big mistake. And in such a case, all crimes against the Greek people were committed by governments of themselves and at a rate of 43%, 45% and 46%. Has Greece saved our national dignity in Imia, because we had a powerful government? No, of course not. And as far as stability is concerned, know that stable is also a mole and a swamp. He doesn't say anything. The second major issue that has been debated and on which, of course, the Golden Dawn - it was not asked to speak - was the revision of the Constitution. The President himself left New Democracy open the possibility of the separation of Church and State and the revision of Article 3. This for us is not a reason simply to oppose, but it is a dissolution of the Greek state of the Greek nation, as was founded by the Revolution of 1821. In these famous Constitutional Reviews, however, there have been other crimes, such as, for example, we have in the case of Article 4, which states that all Greeks are obliged to carry weapons to serve their homeland. There in a completely irregular way you have managed to distort the substance of the article and to institutionalise the so-called 'alternative term'. We have Article 21, which refers to the protection of family, marriage, maternity, childhood and the rights of people with disabilities. Paragraph 1 shall refer to the family as the foundation of the maintenance and promotion of the nation, as well as of marriage, maternity and childhood. You've done all this debris with the living pact. You're making the Constitution effective. Legislative unconstitutional in here and otherwise you are the constitutional bow. The same is true of Article 16 on education, which aims to and is a basic mission in accordance with the Constitution of Greeks' moral, intellectual, professional and physical education and the development of national and religious conscience. What development of religious conscience are we talking about when you abolish religious lessons? We are now coming to some other outrageous articles in the Constitution that need to be reviewed. This is Article 27, entitled 'Mutation to the boundaries of the State', which states that 'No change in the boundaries of the territory cannot take place without a law, which is voted on by an absolute majority of the total number of Members of Parliament'. I don't understand. So if they decide to grant Thesprotia as Tsamouria to Albania, will that be legal? This article is a disgrace and a national betrayal and has to leave the Revision of the Constitution! So is Article 28 which provides - which is unprecedented - for national independence. It is unacceptable that a sovereign state should exist within the Constitution itself which provides for national sovereignty. A concession of national sovereignty that you made with the Memorandums, both the PASOK and the New Democracy with the first Memorandums and SYRIZA. An assignment of national sovereignty that when the Golden Dawn can - if God wants! - It will be abolished and dominance will return to the nation! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] It goes without saying that a change must take place - and it could have occurred - and Article 86 of the Constitution, which refers to the famous law on the responsibility of Ministers, to the irresponsibleness of the Ministers. The government has also been used lately in a war - which we still do not see - against interlocutoryism. And I come back to the Constitution, in particular Article 16, where, in the Constitution which you have shared with all Members, the status of owner, partner, key shareholder or manager of a media undertaking is laid down in the capacity of the owner, partner, principal shareholder or director of an undertaking which it receives with regard to the public or legal person in the wider public sector to the execution of works. The contractors should not have the television stations in their hands. But you're leaving them! What war, then, are you in trouble? You are violating the Constitution by leaving all this filthy and filthy stain that exists. And now I come by a few in the bill, to say the position of the Golden Dawn, which the previous speakers have done well. The story of the sale of the PPA is not present. It has started since 2002, since the modernist Simitis, which we see is politically trying to embrace both New Democracy and SYRIZA. That's how we got to the current situation. The government will talk about success, about money coming into public funds and about growth. In practice, however, none of this applies. In practice, this is a sale. The port of Piraeus will be sold for 311m euros. And with these 311 million euros they take containers, ship repairs with four tanks, ferry, infrastructure over thirty-seven kilometers, etc. It is a real scandal, when in 2014 by the HSE itself, the concession contract for two quarantines was valued at EUR 1 billion. As regards the security aspects of the port of Piraeus, I would like to say the following. The port will continue to have the security duties that the Chinese have or will put in a private company and will take control of the first port of the country? Also, the payment of the annual concession is 3.5% and you triumph, because in New Democracy it was 2%. It is outrageous that someone should grant the entire property, a national property, and receive 3.5% of the revenue. In corresponding privatisation competitions we will talk about what is happening in the port of Cyprus. The percentages that individuals will pay in the Cypriot State for a period of twenty-five years amount to 62% and the containers will be 52%. This is a sale of national public property, for which there are clearly criminal responsibilities. Golden Dawn will vote against this bill, which the New Democracy will vote for, indicating that it is the only national opposition in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u315	Thank you. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative Mr. Dendias has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u316	Mr President, would you do me a favor to propose a speaker, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u317	Yeah. Mr Arvanitides will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u318	Is it my turn?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u319	Because we have given Mr Katsotis the floor as a priority, there has been a confusion. That was the turn we would follow, by two speakers, a parliamentary representative. They spoke three out of the list of speakers and we would give the floor to the first parliamentary representative to speak. For his own reasons Mr Dendias has asked us to propose one of the speakers. Before you come to Stepma, Mr Arvanitides, I would like us to agree on the further process. The first is about the determination of the time of the roll-call vote. From the Bureau we propose around 22.00 p.m. If you agree on the basis of the written speakers, Parliamentarians and speakers, so far at least Presidents of Parliament's groups who have said they will speak, about 21.30 minutes may be...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u320	Mr. President, can we do it at 9 p.m.? Don't do it 21.30 ́, it's a dangerous time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u321	I don't know what you mean dangerous, but we're making a proposal for 22:00. I wish the speakers would finish earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u322	Let's make an effort.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u323	There's gonna be an effort. There is also a request in this direction, which is why we are putting it, by many colleagues, to leave for their regions. So the first is a strong request to keep the time and the second, the secondaryities of the special speakers or of the parliamentary representatives, if it is easy, to limit themselves, would be a wishful task. Mr Arvanitides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u324	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it took a long time and many missed opportunities to convince citizens and political systems that the state model businessman has exhausted his potential. Of course, in most cases, we chose to move towards privatization when things reached the endless, presenting this development as a last resort and not as a strategic option for the development and modernisation of the country. This has resulted in a systemic signal being given to society, that demilitarisation always ends up at the expense of the people. If we really want to dismantle the myths they brought us here, we have to agree on two basic things in this country: Firstly, we must clearly tell the citizens which services we believe should remain under public control and what can be exercised and granted to individuals. We, for example, believe that public transport must remain under state control, while, on the contrary, port commercial services can be exercised by individuals. Secondly, we have to agree that the privatizations are divided into profitable and unfavourable, of course, depending on their content and not according to each other's ideas. If we fail to agree on these basics, there is no chance of getting out of the memos, there is no case, ladies and gentlemen, for us to overcome the crisis. Minister, I want to give you a picture of how we see the ports. First of all, as Democratic Integration, we believe that shipping is the main pillar for the sustainable development of the country in the next few decades. Its contribution to GDP and external balance is already very important and with appropriate interventions it can give impetus to other sectors of the economy, which really need it. In this direction it is extremely important to use the large ports of the country and especially the port of Thessaloniki and Piraeus, which are also the tip of the spear. The transport of products today requires high-level transport and logistics services, modern infrastructure, integrated transport and traffic systems. Therefore, we cannot talk about modern ports if these are not connected to the rail network, if the country's roads are not finally finished, unless we attract dynamic companies that compete in every sector of port activity. The European port model serves this objective in the best way, ensuring investment and a large number of investors in each sector. That is why in 2014 - to solve this misunderstanding too - we expressed our opposition to the privatisation model chosen by Mr Varvitsiotis and adopted the current government. We had warned in time that the choice of selling the majority package of shares in the PPA was at risk of passing from one end to another, that is to say, from the State monopoly to a private monopoly, which was done. However, because we are not all the same, despite our objections, we have decided to deal with an international obligation in the country with responsibility and to work to ensure that the PPA is demilitarised as beneficial as possible to the Greek people. Unfortunately, the way in which you brought the concession to this House largely deprives us of this possibility, since the proposals which can be made within a very short period of time that Parliament has had and which have lasted for the committees are pointless and limited. Now I'm actually coming to the point. First of all, I would like to stress that the continuation of the existing tender for the privatization of the PPA is an option for the present Government, since in no legal texts, except the third one that you signed, did not commit us to the privatisation model that we are following. However, because this is a past and today we have a specific agreement before us, I would like to make a few comments on how you handled the issue. So let's go see what you're supposed to do and what you didn't do. You are well aware that Law 3654/2008 imposed consultation between the Greek State and the PPA on the revision of the existing concession contract. You didn't. You have recently introduced the Public Port Authority, instead of doing so directly, so that we know what responsibilities are assigned and what are not. You have unbelievably afflicted the workers and the business community of the country, because you have failed to achieve the self-evident, that is to say, to create a safe working environment. I would remind you that one of the reasons why the previous administration of HSED and the then Minister told us that they chose this model of privatization was because the investor is obliged to take over, together with the company and the obligations, all the staff. It's just that he couldn't buy the operation, at the same time dismissing the staff. You are talking about a satisfactory price of EUR 368 million for 67% of shares, 350 million for investments and 410 million from 3.5% of turnover. I would remind you that the recent agreement on the port of Limassol - and it is particularly important - is a port of less capacity than that of Piraeus amounted to EUR 2 billion, and even for twenty-five years and not for thirty-six years of concession, as you are doing with Piraeus. I would also remind you that Limassol has chosen the European model of demilitarisation, what we have proposed from the outset. Please note that six tenders were submitted in the final phase of the tender for the container station, five tenders for the general cargo station and three tenders for the port services. In the case of the PPA, the tendering procedure has only been closed with an interested party to submit a binding tender. I'm coming to the investments now. Minister, you must provide us with details of the investments that will be made so that we can judge who they are concerned with. If the major volume is primarily new infrastructure, then the public will indeed have a significant advantage. If, however, the investments concern mainly logistical infrastructure, machinery and equipment, they will be of little value when the port returns to the Greek State, since, after thirty-six years, both their value and their usefulness will be almost nullified. I'm closing up with a major topic. The bill states that at the moment the relationship between the assets of the PPA with its debt obligations is at 0.7. This practically means that the value of his property outweighs the loans he has received. The concession contract provides that the investor can deliver after thirty-six years the PPA to the Greek State with a relationship of six. Six times over, he has the right to be in favour of the property. This practically means that thirty-six years after the PPA’s lending obligations may exceed even six times the amount of its assets. In other words, the infamous investment will be made with loans, which will unfortunately be charged to the Greek people in the end. Provision should normally be made for the last year of the concession to return to 0.7 in 2052. Minister, unfortunately you have failed even easily. You failed to show the elementary seriousness of a critical demilitarisation. For the first time, the Municipality of Piraeus will not participate in the Board of Directors of the PPA. Nothing can guarantee that the new investor will work together with the municipality so that the benefits for Piraeus from the new era that PPA enters into have a direct impact on local society, the local economy and local businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u325	Thank you, Mr. Arvanitides. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Denkias, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u326	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for us in the New Democracy today it is a good day and I think it could be a good day for the country as well. Why? Because the ratification of a contract, which is a continuation of the strategic choice made by Kostas Karamanlis in 2008, comes before the National Representation, a strategic selection continued by the government of Samaras and the then ministers, Mr Mousouroulis, Mr Varvitsiotis, who has led it to a conclusion and has several times brought the leaders of the Asian superpower, the great country of China to Athens. How important this investment is for China, ladies and gentlemen, I think you know that. Allow me to tell you that I had the opportunity in the previous government, and with the Prime Minister of China, Prime Minister Lee, but also a whole morning in Rhodes, on a private visit with President Si, to understand that it is absolutely essential for our relationship with China to conclude this convention. So in the New Democracy we would like to be glad and sorry today, Mr Minister, because you have deprived us of a part of this joy. Firstly, you have deprived us of your and the rapporteur of the majority interest in this convention. Fortunately, our rapporteur, Mrs Kefaliannis, has put things in place. You have been annoyed about what you are proposing to be ratified by the National Representation, annoying because at first you were against the demilitarisations, but you have not brought anything better than the Government of New Democracy - PASOK at that time with its relevant Minister, Mr Varvitsiotis. He told you before at the time of his position. On the contrary, you have not missed the opportunity - and this regrets me, Minister - to ridicul both the country and the national Parliament and the government and to force a sovereign Parliament to stop the progress of its work and wait for the negotiation of legal changes, with a company, even if this company is a company belonging to a very large state body. This, ladies and gentlemen, does not honour the government, it does not honour the country, it does not honour Parliament. I have to tell you two things are happening, Minister. Either you were right about what you told us here and then you should not retreat, or you were wrong, and you tried to achieve some political benefits in your own judgment, the crisis of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, which you could have shown as gains in your own peculiar audience or part of it. In both cases, however, you have succeeded in harming the country, in its prestige, to "advertise" - and I say that with negative introductory words - what happened to international news agencies, to make us once again not just a negative criticism, but a mock, something that Greece does not need today. I want to tell you honestly something. You are not a legal officer, Minister, and I do not address it to you personally, but I am extremely disturbed, ladies and gentlemen, when I see in the legislation that there is to be puppets and politicism of the unscrupulous species. I'll tell you why I'm saying that. I will give you an example. Here comes Article 10a of the legislation, which is the guarantee of workers and says: "The company's general Staff Regulations are maintained until they are repealed by the Board of Directors of the PPA and also the Rules of Procedure of the Internal Organisation again until they are repealed and replaced." This obviously does not like workers. So the Minister responsible comes here and submits a legislative change, and even in the form of an interpretative statement. I have to tell you - and I think you all know it here, old and new - that it is unprecedented to submit, read and propose an interpretative statement before the adoption of the article of the law, the same law, for the simple reason that this clarification, if necessary, may lead to a change in the text of the law and thus no need for an interpretation statement. I say the obvious, what the student in the first year of law would understand, and I am sure everyone is aware of it in this Chamber. So what's the Minister doing here? It brings an interpretative statement that reads: "The current legislation completely prohibits the concessionaire from abolishing the existing general staff regulation and at the same time operating the Piraeus Port Authority, even one day without a general staff regulation". This is the 'aspirin' to workers. Watch out, however, the second and worst attempt of a puppy. From the legislative changes that have come, I read to you the legislative change relating to Article 12.2, but curiously, it is applied directly at 10a and it says in a word. It refers to the concessionaire: ‘It may at any time adopt, amend and implement binding corporate rules and regulations’. At any time, whatever it takes. Tell me, what do these three texts show? Do they show government seriousness? Do they show responsibility to the workers? Do they show fairness to the counterparty? Do they show legal friction in the skulls of the legislators, who have written them and recommended them to the Greek Delegation? What do these texts show? Ladies and gentlemen, these are not serious things. They're not serious things at all. You turn a day that could have been joy and understanding about a success of Greek democracy, in which many have contributed in whatever way, in a day of incredible micro-party wickedness. Ladies and gentlemen, anyone who believes that Brexit is a small event or who rejoices about this event, saying that it demonstrates the problems of the European Union, is making a very big mistake. Both the Union and its economy and perhaps the global economy open a door and enter a framework of a chance of a worse crisis. It also emerges before us the possibility of a harder core of the Union, a nucleus of the willing men, where the rest will be in the region at best, or buffer zones in the worst case. That's a threat that threatens our country. Faced with this risk, the Greek society must show self-confidence, highlight what it has to offer to the European people, its Armed Forces, its shipping, its cultural background, its great human capital and its education and must equally claim its participation in a modern European tradition, which includes a modern way of perception of the economy, of the realities, of international relations. In order for all this to happen, however, to have confidence, what it takes is also a sense of discipline and seriousness towards the declared objectives of our country. The strategic relationship with China is one of these objectives, which we all share or almost all of in this Chamber. And not to try with various evils and by the way, and with the back and "we were saying", to salvage a small part of the trivial political capital of populism that we had created in previous times, when we said that these things would never be done by us. And of course, I am referring to you in the government majority. For us in the centre-right, today, apart from national joy, is a day of ideological joy. Because it is obvious to every Greek and every Greek woman that there are no fifteen exit streets from the crisis, but essentially one. And you follow him, too, dying to die, but you follow him. And as you follow him with fascism, proclaim in the most absolute way to everyone, even if it takes a little time for society to understand it as a whole, that the only way ahead is the way of the liberal economy. In this sense, then, I tell you that, in principle, the New Democracy will pass the legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u327	Thank you, Mr. Dendia. Before giving the floor to the next speaker, the Minister, Mr Dritsa, asked to make an intervention for a minute. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u328	It is a small legislative improvement. In Article 5(2), the words ‘including’ and Article 19(2) shall be inserted ‘definitive’.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u329	Good. To be given to the Minutes, to share with the Members and the parliamentary groups. Mr. Panayotarus has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u330	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Dendia, this is not a good day today, as you say, neither happy nor anything, when you sell the property of the Greek people against a lentil. As the Chief of Golden Dawn said earlier and gave examples, some other countries sold at much better prices and most did not sell at all. They have kept their ports under state control, so that they can control the seamless import and export of products. Also, with the practices of the New Democracy, PASOK, the Memorandum Party, in which case both SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks with the third Memorandum, Greece is not, as Mr. Dendia said, in a European Union nor in the hard core or in the buffer zone where there is danger. We are probably at the Garbagezone. We are Europe's garbage. Because there you've sent us, with all these memoirs, all these years. As for the Minister Dritsa's renaissance today, we saw that since last afternoon this hideout, this theater had begun. We waited for 'COSCO' to come. It is not the 'COSCO' that came. It was to come a letter from 'COSCO'. Finally, she did not come at the hearing of the bodies and was distributed at the end, after all the committees have finished. You thought that, "by making the Chinese", you could pass the different text from the 8 April agreement you signed with the state, please, "COSCO". Remember what was happening within this House in previous years, when SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks were in Civic Antipolitics, Antipolitics when similar discussions were held either in committees or in plenary on concessions of ports and so on. Mr. Dritsas and Mr. Lafazanis were the first to stand up, who, if anything, honored his pants and got up and left. Mr Dritsas kept the banner on marches in front of the port of Piraeus. Until first he protested and said that the port of Piraeus would never be sold. We'll be here on the front line. It's on the front line. He is Minister of Shipping and has set wide his signatures at the sellout. The same applies, of course, to Prime Minister Tsipras. If one looks at his statements to the very recent ones, he will see not only cubism but also the pity of this political system now. I submit to the Minutes some of the hundred cubs of Prime Minister, Dritsa and other SYRIZA officials. [[At this point, MP Ilias Panagiotaros submits for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You are gratifying on the substance - because this is what this is about - not the largest port in the country, but at the moment the most developed throughout Europe, North Africa and the Middle East, with what this entails. You know that very well, because the revenues of the PPA since the early 2000s have been growing. With the global, economic and commercial situation the position of this port would certainly have great profits, which would certainly go to the Greek State, to the Greek citizens. We must not talk about other security issues and all that. Then it is that you, gentlemen of the government, blamed the others with whom you will vote today, regardless of the various false arrangements. You accused them of being rags, as germans - chinese-girls, in this case - as traitors, 'in the fours'. Eventually, all together "four" will perform various exact exercises. For the Greek people to understand who will vote today for the sale of the PPA, the first port of the country, I will say that one of them is a MP, who spoke the day before yesterday about a bill and because he had confused his papers and did not have the whole text in front of him, he interrupted his speech. Imagine the ability of this man, who could not continue his speech, because he lacked some pages. We're talking about ridiculousness in all her majesty. We heard another SYRIZA MEP yesterday in the Commission, who was trying to convince and said that it was documented and numbered to prove this most beneficial agreement. For the numbers, we would say something, and for whether there are any other figures, then that by law in an article you would change everything. The same things that say are undoing you, gentlemen of SYRIZA, who are now trying to convince yourself and the other Greeks that you are right. Mr Balafas just said today, if I am not mistaken, that 'if we were not a government we would be in the gatherings and marches against this privatisation'. Really, this deliberate delay in the document was having some sabotage? Clearly it did. The ordinary Greek citizens have a question, even a simple man who has not finished universities: Since the port of Piraeus, as you said, is one of the best "Silver" in our country because only one was found to make an offer? What about the others? Where did they go? You, the enthusiasts of the free economy and the free market, what do you say? Where's the competition? Where are the many offers for the best port in Europe? Nothing, nothing! Didn't that bother you? Doesn't it bother you that everything has been done under the table? The minimum price, of EUR 300 million, it seems, will not go to any civil servants who want to leave, who some people have said, because our lenders will get it through the funnel of this fund, so we will also put money out of our pocket to pay for any transfers or anything else. As to the deterioration of the Problem 1, for so long everyone has known about three or four years that it has been selling 'COSCO', not someone else. Where did they know all this? And on the substance, the Problem 1 was inactive, there was nothing, only a few containers placed by 'COSCO'. Didn't that ever hurt you to understand that there were great purposes? We have heard discussions in committee, but also just before plenary, about archaeological sites. Give archaeological sites. Did you, therefore, have given the Salamis Navy and you don't know it and we're running after that, and we're not gonna get there? You've given everything up to the Strait from Perama to Palukia. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Allow me, Mr President, just a minute. Really, why do you keep struggling? Since you're almost all going to vote here. What development are you talking about? Is that growth? Of course not. This is the development of a third-world, country for the benefit of specific - within introductory - "investors". Somewhere we heard the Minister say who you are. You sure are with the lenders, with you, but not the Greek people. It seems - and we constantly prove it - that whatever happens we are with the Greek people and with the real development of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u331	The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Vaki, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u332	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, because the specula and teratology since yesterday are well kept and because much has been said since yesterday about the infamous letter sent by 'COSCO' and the notorious legislative improvements, which I enthusiastically have no legal basis, in the sense that they are all included in Annex 1.1.A to the Convention, let us repeat certain things to be inspired. The duty of all of us in this Chamber as representatives of the Greek people is to fight with all our forces for the public interest, except that some in this Chamber acted as lawyers of 'COSCO'. And only you have not announced "thank you, company"! But do you know? This will be recorded in the history of the House. You forsake us that we are not democrats and patriots. Courses of democracy and patriotism by you? From the "yes men" of colonial conventions? From the engaging preachers of the memorials as a blessing? From the high priests of redundancies? You invoked us for windshield. Are you, for amoralism, where the development of this country for forty consecutive years has been tantamount to strife, to sea-loans, to SIEMENS, and to all the black money that was escaping from amphetamines and going to tax havens, to offshore? Courses of patriotism by you, where forty years have you devastated the primary and secondary sectors of this country and made all public firms problematic? However, let us go a little bit to the history of the port and to the previous convention, to make a comparison between the previous and the current ones, because at least our collective memory has not, fortunately, lost it yet. It will therefore be interesting to stress that the port of Piraeus has been subject to constant privatisation over the last twenty years. It therefore moves to the limits of funny and political deception to claim that SYRIZA privatises the port. For about fifteen years, Piraeus Port Authority has been a public limited company listed on the Stock Exchange, with multi-shaped composition, while a very large part of its infrastructure has been allocated to "COSCO" since 2008. This is about restoring the truth, about where we are today. With regard to the subject of today's debate, namely the concession of the PPA, it should also be stressed that this concession did not come from a virginity. The PPA had been transferred to the GOI as a whole and the GOI had prepared a specific concession plan, with the blessings of the previous government. Certain conditions of this initial contract were significantly differentiated from standard European practice in relation to the operation and management of ports. They have been implemented with great success, do you know where? In Britain of the Margaret Thatcher period. What, then, did SYRIZA and the government, in order to improve the conditions of the concession, in order to increase the social recompense of this investment and, of course, to ensure workers and the general public interest? After a process of painful negotiation, the relevant ministry and government as a whole managed to improve important conditions of concession and if they received substantial benefits for local society. Indicatively, one can mention the best way of guaranteeing workers, by protecting their collective rights as strong as possible, but also by the alternatives offered by the procedure provided for in the draft law, of transfers. Secondly, there is a great deal of talk. The increase in the fees that the State will receive from the concession contract over the next few years, as well as the increase in the amount of compulsory investment to which the company is committed. In the same direction as the results of the renegotiation, the price that the State will receive for the concession is also increased, but also the percentage that the State receives from the income of the PPA every year. With the previous framework, the company's annual liabilities to the state of its profits would almost half of what we have achieved, 2% then and 3.5% now. There's a difference. Third major success is the exclusion of the coastal front of Drapetsona fertilisers and their performance in local society. With the bill this area is permanently attributed to the Municipality of Keratini and Drapetsonas and a great struggle of years is successfully completed. At the same time, dozens of buildings of public interest, social and cultural interest, archaeological sites belonging to the PPA, are excluded from the concession contract, thereby ensuring public service and social interest as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, the main question we are asking today is one. With this concession agreement and the forthcoming, significant, concise investment to be made in the port of Piraeus, will the real economy benefit the local society? And we should note here that in recent years the wider region of Piraeus has been washed by a polluting unemployment and a more general climate of disinvestment. So, can developments with the completion of the concession reverse this grim reality? Our assessment is that they can. They can contribute substantially to the strengthening of the local economy as well. The very large turnover that can be diffused into the local economy and contribute to the upgrading of the entire Piraeus region. The social recompense for this investment was and remains one of the main problems of the government's tough negotiation. There is a need for a constant effort, of course, to ensure such a direction, and we should all continue to aim, without restoring and reassuring. Many people are rushing to blame us today, hypocritically, for a change of position, for a late interest in large investments, for a change in attitude to privatisation. I would like to say this. First of all, the former rulers who are in the position of counter-population are not entitled to raise such a matter today. The privatisation of the port of Piraeus and, in particular, the original terms of the procedure, as we inherited it, raise important questions about whether there was a negotiation or whether all of this was designed in a 'yesmen' logic. The second question, to which those who have been indicted to us must be answered, is whether they have acted for forty years, which could lead to the creation of strong public enterprises. The answer is obviously 'no'. Today, then, we are called upon to combine our ideological goals with the reality of the economy, but also with the commitments made by the Greek state in previous phases and which cannot be overturned. However, what is most important today is to ensure a path of growth in the Greek economy, in which large investments will also be able to contribute. In this direction, then, we will continue to fight to ensure the social return on investment, even if we are called upon to act in an unfavourable global and European environment of capitalist deregulation. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the completion of the concession is the beginning of a new effort in the economy. This development is a positive step for national and local development. And the main political and social challenge for the Left is to ensure that this economic growth helps to improve the real economy of Piraeus, but also of the country as a whole. With regard to the opposition's political pirates and the theater of irrationality, which has been served since yesterday, it is obviously not possible to convince anyone about their credibility and honesty. The 'yes men' of yesterday presented today as guardians of the public interest, obviously they have no credibility, and unfortunately for them no matter how hypocritical they are, no one will hear them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u333	Thank you, Mrs. Vaki. The President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group and the President of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u334	Ladies and gentlemen, I did not intend to interfere in today's debate, but indeed with the ratification of the 'COSCO' concession agreement, which we are debating yesterday and today, overcoming yourself, ladies and gentlemen of the government majority. We thought that we had seen them all with you: Ministers who sign with soul pain and vote for privatizations with tears in their eyes, who first sign and then denounce themselves - as Mr Spirtz did in the case of the Greek - who speak of reforms and at the same time do what they do to undermine the changes that they themselves are proposing, which close the squirrels with drum impacts and then open them up in the feasting climate, with glory and honors, the TAP gas pipeline, which they used, when the previous government was visioned, planned and launched its construction. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] Of course, the last great performance of this government is the ratification of the 'COSCO' concession agreement, which even comes again under the urgency procedure, Mr President. And since I see you sitting in the parliamentary seats, I would appreciate it if at some point you responded to the letter, which I have sent you for three weeks on the issues of Parliament's operation, because it is still unanswered. However, the official reason for this urgency procedure was for the Prime Minister to have the contract ratified in his luggage in the light of his journey to Beijing. However, the real reason, as illustrated by the text put forward in the House, was that in the end your purpose was rather to retreat from what you had already agreed, just to satisfy your narrow electoral client. Maybe we shouldn't be surprised. In addition, Mr Dritsas had made a public promise to reduce the opposition to privatisation, to change the agreement. And he comes yesterday and submits a text which substantially changes the agreement his own government had already signed. One day before the Prime Minister's trip to China, Minister, your government exceeds every limit of hypocrisy and unreliability. The agreement with 'COSCO' is a very important agreement for the Greek economy and our Parliamentary Representative was right, when he told you a moment ago that today should normally be a day of joy for Parliament, since we agree on an important concession agreement, which will create many jobs and substantially enhance the role of the Piraeus port. But with your childish terrain, instead of ratifying the agreement, you have effectively canceled it politically. And I wonder if what a potential investor, who is following this debate, will think at some point about investing in that country. With your evils you have swept through the country, Minister, and you are undermining any investment activity in our country. With this unbelievable amateurism that distinguishes you - and I think I am eulogy with my expression - you are expelling investments and expelling jobs and depriving the unemployed Greeks and the unemployed Greeks of all prospects and hopes to find jobs at one time. Ladies and gentlemen, legal certainty is at the heart of the preconditions, so that the country can again become an attractive investment destination. However, legal certainty presupposes, above all, that the governments, Minister, honour their signature. It is not possible, other things to agree with the company and others to bring for ratification to the House. Never in Parliament's history has there been any government of any party that has failed in this provocative way to sign it in a very important agreement, an agreement which is essentially transnational. In my previous speech from this Step, on development law, I had likened your Government to Janus and his two sides. One side of the face of this government swears faith in the Memorandum Reforms and votes, without reservation, as our creditors suggest. And the other side of her face systematically undermines all reforms that conflict with her left genome. Nor did I imagine how quickly this appreciation of me would have been justified. Mr. Tsipras and your government as a whole, Mr. Ministers, are the epitome of hypocrisy, unreliability and inefficiency. At a time when attracting investment must be the country's first priority, you do your best to get rid of the few investors who insist on investing in Greece. At the same time, of course, with what you are doing, you are also putting the country's relations with China at risk, which have been built up with a great deal of effort from all the previous governments. You're doing all this to do the favor to a trade union dragon. This attitude not only exposes you, but it exposes the entire country as a whole. Following yesterday's letter - 'COSCO', Mr Tsipras is personally responsible for the actions of his Minister. If Mr. Drits had moved on self-advised, he had to have given up on him. However, the picture that exists within the country, within Parliament, but also beyond the country, is that Mr Tsipras ultimately covers Mr Dricas. But the Prime Minister can no longer hide behind his ministers, hiding behind his members. He can't hide behind Mr. Friends anymore, he can't hide behind Mr. Spirtzi, he can't hide behind Mr. Crisis. All of these things are Mr. Tsipras's real face. Yesterday, Dr. Dritsa admitted that changes were actually made to the current law, which, as he said, would be restored, as finally done, by legislative improvements. And he tried to convince us that these changes are minor and that they were made for the good of the company when it was and it is quite clear that they are fundamentally changing the content of the contract. Is it true, Mr. Dritsa, that I see you skeptical in our hospitable cabinets, that you still believe what you were saying in 2014? I read: "The government's choice to bring the issue of PPA privatisation to Parliament is indicative of its choice to go without society. Privatisation of the PPA means alienation of the people from the Port. Privatisation - be careful! - "the PPA means job losses and worsening working conditions in a city suffering from poverty and unemployment. The port - you said, Mr Dritsa - "it belongs to the citizens. The Port is the property of the Greek people." Do you still believe all this? And if you believe them, what exactly are you doing in the ministerial benches? I accept and it is absolutely reasonable and honest to disagree with the following government policy, to state it openly and then, obviously, to do what the rules of political morality stipulate: to resign, to go home, to defend his political beliefs and principles. But what I cannot accept is supposedly ideologists who, on the one hand, sell left and right and on the other, do everything they can to sit a few more moments on the ministers. We cannot accept that! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] No major investor tolerates a contract, which was signed, I recall, with the Prime Minister present, unilaterally altered from the Greek side. And you do not have the right to navigate in the worst possible way an agreement, which at the bottom of the script upgrades the country's position, ultimately promotes its geopolitical interests and, above all, contributes to the creation of many jobs at a time when domestic entrepreneurship is tested by your ongoing failures. I wonder if it's possible - take care of the timing! - the day when the German Vice-Chancellor, Mr Gabriel, visits the country to talk about investment, the very day you choose to change the terms of a contract, which comes to Parliament by the procedure - be careful! - the formal ratification. And regardless of any withdrawal you have finally made at the expense of the irreversible reality, the damage has already been done in the image of the country and this case has highlighted the real features of your Government, the unrelenting hypocrisy and monumental inability. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to close by saying this: Today and after the recent extremely worrying European developments, our country needs a government that keeps the rudder of the boat steady in the fermented waters and especially the economy needs stability and tranquility. However, he doesn't need a government that, when he says white, means black and eventually legislates gray. It needs real investment policies and not operations that dynamise the investment climate and can ultimately lead to the removal of important investment projects, at risk of the loss of thousands of jobs. To finish, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the strengths of Greek society are exhausted. All, even those who have been deceived and believed in you, those who have been deceived by your popular promises, understand the damage you cause. They realize it because they're experiencing it. It is experienced by every Greek who sees his salary and since his retirement, hundreds of thousands of pensioners now see their pensions down. It is experienced by every Greek and every Greek woman who lose their job, because the company in which they have been working is closed or bankrupt because of the experiments, lies and delusionalities. For all these people, you know, it doesn't really matter whether you lied or have been delusional. The reality of the Greek economy is irreversible, it is not possible for any beauty to be achieved by propaganda mechanisms such as your party newspaper, for which we have learned that it has offshore on its blog. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] When we said that, not only do you want, but that you cannot make reforms, we meant exactly what is going on today. An alalum government, which every day proves why the country does not need a change of electoral law, but requires elections, to give a definitive end to the uncertainty caused by any governmental act of yours. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Today it is more than ever necessary for the country to have a government that will safely lead it to post-population times, a government that, seriously, with responsibility, will lay the foundations for the real recovery of the economy. The Spanish, like all the Europeans, have seen the tragic results of your own irresponsible policy of populism and have decided to escape from their respective populists. Because in Greece populism was tested in the furnace of real governance and melted in its parts. Unfortunately, your failure does not only serve as an example for the rest of the European countries, but leaves its mark on the body of our homeland indelibly. But the time comes when the Greek people will leave you forever in yesterday and remember you as a bad nightmare. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u335	Thank you. Mr Stavros Theodorakis, President of the Potamian Parliamentary Group, has the floor. Mr. Theodorakis, your time is twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u336	I will take half a year, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago, Mr. Tsipras, in a very nice setting in the Acropolis, presented his vision of development: 'Greece 2021'. Kolokotronis, Karaiskakis, development. Logical synergies. And today, before the month is over, the SYRIZA - ANEL fall apart. And the little bit of trust and credibility that the government can have against potential foreign investors. Because - and I think that we will all agree on this - all reasonable people in this Chamber - with what is happening in Parliament over the last few hours are laughing or irritating those who think to invest in our country. Since March 2015, from here, since the Step of the House, I have said that we have to finish the 'COSCO' case, to get people to work in the ports. Thirty-three thousand jobs, the studies say, we will have the period 2016-2025. But you, gentlemen of the government, are delayed. To drop the fruit, rot and eat what's left. The National Bank has estimated that the development of the port of Piraeus can bring up to 5.1 billion a year to the economy. To be absolutely honest, it may be an over-optimistic assessment, but it gives us a sense of what we have lost in these two years of delay. And "the spilled water is not regained," the Chinese say. But let's go and see some of the titles of this story of irrationality we live in. The Minister submitted a bill attempting to change the terms of agreement with the Chinese. And all this, while the Prime Minister's visit to China is on the table. And when it turns out that the Chinese know Greek or rather "symmetrical" and denounce them, what does the government do? Maximus lets it be understood that it is the fault of Mr. Dritsas and Mr. Dritsas that the bill has been drafted and the Government Secretariat, namely Maximos. And an answer should be given. The Minister or Maximus? However, ladies and gentlemen, I think that Mr Dritsa, under this sad look, should be pleased. Let me tell you why. He can say - and I'm almost sure he thinks so - to his constituents in Piraeus: 'I tried to finish. And if there weren't any of those Chinese anti-population brawlers, the contract wouldn't have passed and anyway I'd have deceived the Chinese." And if the bill passed in its previous form, indeed Mr. Dritsas would claim a place in the pantheon of the "left" heroes. The words are relevant, of course, and I ask in the Minutes that the 'left' should be in introductory form. Of course, Mr. Dritsas, to be honest, did nothing but what Mr. Tsipras taught last year: that is, since my leader so easily does 'no' 'yes' and I can so easily make a contract incompatible. Oriental beans, at a time when the country is mainly in need of seriousness. [[Applause from the river wing]] It is clear that many MPs and officials of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks promised the workers' muds, through Mr. Dritsa, "another what we say to the Chinese and another what we will do". So let us make fun of the voters. Now, proud words, naughty fleeing. Ladies and gentlemen, a state must negotiate hard. But that is not what we are talking about today. A state must negotiate hard, so that its citizens can gain more. But when you agree, you have to keep your agreements. Otherwise, you're a parody state. And with a state of parody no one wants to have any relationships. The recent Brexit, which we are all discussing, requires a little more serious than everyone. We need to be more careful. We need to show a responsible, trustworthy person and leave the puppets and puppies in the past. In other words, we need seriousness, credibility, confidence, alliances. The credibility is today the big issue for this country, after eighteen months of perrexism. And we, that is, you, gentlemen of the government, sent these hours to investors the worst message and sabotaged the Greek economy at a difficult time. But there is, ladies and gentlemen, a question for Parliament. Watch out, what our calculations are up to. In the sixty-six laws passed by the SYRIZA Government, ANEL, the average time - take care - from the moment a bill comes into Parliament until it is voted on is fourteen hours. The average time is fourteen hours. [[Applause from the river wing]] Who's to read? Who would suggest? Who's to fix? Who plays his role, both in Communism and Opposition? So Parliament continues to imitate the worst days of the past, that is to say, to be a governmental decision-making office. I want to tell you one last thing, 'cause all these revolts are getting tired of us. Let's be brief. I come from the mountains of Arcadia. So a peasant in Manaris stops me in a small, beautiful, mountainous village and tells me - and he says - "If they do what they do on a subject that everyone watches them, think about what monkeys..." he did not say that word, he said another word, "What panoramics do to all of our other issues, to pensions, to farms, to small projects." And I think you're gonna have to find a way to answer the world that's worried about and saying that very thing. Unless you've done everything you've done and heard, it looks like praise to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u337	Thank you. Mr Loverdos, Parliamentary Representative for Democratic Independence, has the floor. Mr. Loverdo, you have ten minutes to time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u338	Madam President, yesterday and yesterday we had the opportunity here to remember the 'birth' of that terrible and terrible day of capital controls. For the consequences of the billions, we have made enough reason. Yesterday and today, in addition to what we are doing here with the ratification of the concession contract, we have our first issue outside the House of Commons, what is happening in the reduction of allowances and what is happening in contributions. He sent me a farmer from Northern Greece a message: "Six months of OGA contribution for employees from EUR 612 to EUR 817". Tens of thousands of income cuts are made, a cut for tens of thousands, which made an unprecedented negative impression on themselves. We'll see you here. When you bring your arrangements, we'll comment on them. This does not mean that the citizen is listening to or understanding. When the time comes to pay the price, he understands. These days, that's their thing. They come here Ministers today - I had the misfortune of being in the Chamber - and they say: “What are you talking about? It's not a pension cut. The amount of the allowance is EAEC.’ Awesome! He would have the right to benefits until yesterday: "Wouldn't you say so, man, I know it, not to be upset?" Is the title the thing? I had developed in the debate on insurance how problematic this dimension is between the titles you're trying to inspire as something positive, but it's completely negative. Not to repeat my arguments. You're cutting his income. He's a retired loser. These are your works, as we have mentioned in the last few days. Yesterday and today, beyond that, we have the humiliation in a day that could be your day, the ratification of the concession contract with “COSCO”. Here's a thought, ladies and gentlemen, 'The unilateral change in the convention does more harm in our country in the long term than in keeping it, even though something we don't like.' What legal person said that today? Costas Chrysanogonos, the MEP of SYRIZA. Keep it in mind. There are other people who think logically, from the unfavourable policies of days that run into unfavourable policies and humiliation today and yesterday. You are told by many and we say: 'Resign' and you answer: 'We will not do you a favor'. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not putting down the level, but I remember a cartoon by George John decades ago. He said one police chief to Minister: "Protesters ask you to resign." And the Minister replied: “We will not be bowed down the sidewalk.” We ask you to pay the cost of your political choices and events, to assume political responsibility. Do not answer: 'We will not do you the favor.' We're not the problem. The problem of the country is you. What did you do today? What did you do yesterday, I guess? You signed a contract. You brought a law to the House with differences in the contract you signed. You have followed a paradoxical method, ladies and gentlemen of the government. I want you to allow me to expose it. The laws of the Contract are usually the laws of an article: 'The following is the case.' You want to make arrangements for the workers, too? You mean that? You're putting one more article. You don't reproduce the terms of the contract in the text of the sovereign law. That is what you have done, with the intention of mocking your partner and your customers here and there. Of course, they spotted it - it would be traced - and you come here humiliating the second time. You are presenting as legislative improvements supposedly for the excellent legalization of substance provisions. We told you this morning and you come in the afternoon, after the interruption we imposed, and you bring changes and the majority rapporteur baptizes them and the Minister is proof of the legality of the interventions. Ladies and gentlemen, I described the issues this morning. It is a very substantial issue. In Article 9(1), you have itself accepted the observation number 4 of “COSCO”. In Article 9(3) you took note 2 of “COSCO”. Two examples I mention instead of others. In Article 12(2), instead of a small paragraph of your legislative law on how the common accounts are settled in the Bank of Greece, you bring a provision of one and a half pages - Mr Constantinople has also mentioned - which has the content to say which provisions of Greek law on legal persons governed by public law, private law, public utility organisations are not applicable in the case of the PPA. I am looking for, Minister, and I ask you: This summary of the legislation in force reproducing what provisions of the concession agreement are? If the arrangements are new, it's the absolute charge. In other words, the tactic, which you will understand in your own words, "I make a left policy and I pay it with right-wing errors" is your proof today. If you can tell us in one of your speeches: Article 12(2), which is one and a half pages and replaces ten lines on another subject, what does the concession contract reproduce? Ladies and gentlemen, what was the alleged trick, the wickedness, the lameness? In the morning, I described her a lot tighter and that was inspired. I don't want to repeat my morning expressions. What did they do? They went to say that this is the contract with the counterparty, with the 'COSCO', and these provisions governing other issues. The judge, when the disputes go back, will give solutions. We'll have run away, we'll have sold this, and the judge of the future will find it. The contractor's lawyers found them and what do we find here? That we are not in a position to say, you are not majority in a position to say these regulations of the legislative law, which paradoxically made him so great, what the concession contract - I repeat - reproduces. I went to Article 12 for the rights of one and the other for the law in force. That's not how I found it in the grammatical wordings. Ladies and gentlemen, take your responsibilities, as you have done. Don't tell us any more than others. The practice of the misappropriation of your political speech cannot continue here with the legal texts you bring here. What are you suggesting to us in the future when the connections change? This method? Let's say, "We might have called alpha yesterday, but had a delusion, excuse us"? "Do we make the beta, promise the delta? We were wrong. We're changing! I've been talking to you a little more. And what's going on?" It's not like that. You're kidding. You presented them as "legislative improvements" to good legislation and some colleagues, with a courageous reality, presented them as "continuing negotiation". Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry. The Minister brought in a few hours ago a regulation, as a legislative improvement. in Article 5(2), the words ‘including’ shall be deleted; Do you know what phrase he's deleting? It is a phrase, which made a table of indicative - that is, what cannot be done - exclusively. Obviously, the discussion with the counterparty was continuing. And the most innocent word, for someone who can read the text, can prove what kind of mind the Minister who took the legislative initiative is carrying! Ladies and gentlemen, I have no time to say more thoughts and I shall close with an argument concerning workers. I read the workers' announcements at the port of Thessaloniki and Piraeus. Note: Candidate investors in Thessaloniki have received a negative message. And I would like someone to assure me, although it is not possible, that the information that I have received from Thessaloniki is not accurate, that there is a concern that this kind of manipulation will be repeated wherever such a matter arises. Workers and also in Piraeus, in any case, have sent us a text in which they express dissatisfaction with Article 10A. You come here and bring us, dear friend Minister, an interpretative statement, the hottest minister's speech, as Mr Constantinople said. There is no interpretative statement tabled in the Minutes. Whatever the law regulates, his provisions say. Even interpretative provisions, which are rare, but a feature of some laws, go into law. Here she has features of the meeting's minutes. It may, as we say in law, in the historical interpretation of the rule, make use of this, but it may not make use of it, not to accept it as a legal argument. Ladies and gentlemen, she wanted to safeguard the workers, but she can't. Recruitment's about the transfers. Recruitment may not be accepted by the troika. That's why he brings it as an interpretative statement to send a message. We're also sending a message to the workers: they're making fun of you! If they wanted to make specific arrangements, which would guarantee you against every risk, they would be in the law. They cannot do this because they have other kinds of commitments. They do not want to open up another front at the moment, because this is an intake, and they do so in a way legally nonexistent, to throw tobacco pretext on people who have legitimate anxiety. On the substance - and it is my last sentence - ladies and gentlemen, we are living on the days of MARINOPOULOS, on the days of PYRUS, on the days of ELECTRONIC ATHENS, on the days of LEDRA MARRIOT. Every day there's something negative. You could on this day have made it a day of countermeasure in an unfavourable situation in the workplace. But you're strangers with all this. The growth you realize in a way of metaphysics, that she will come alone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u339	Finish, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u340	I shall conclude, Madam President. They are not regularly responsible for the government. The phrase 'demand', which is heard from all sides of Parliament, regardless of ideological and political positions, is the phrase which concerns you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u341	Mr. Barriots has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u342	Today it was intended a relatively quiet day, since the agreement on the sale of the port - i.e. the parties, I mean - was probably a given one. However, the government has managed to do the game a simple deal, derby, since we have suddenly been faced with a contract which, according to the counterparty's statements, has nothing to do with what the Greek Government has signed. So we found ourselves running today to ask and to try to find out whether or not the House has any meaning to vote for what had come, as the counterparty said it would not cover it, because it is something different from what he had. Let's get back to basics. The government, each government, has an indiscriminate right to sell or not to sell the port, sell it to 'COSCO' or get it back. It's a political right, it's a political responsibility. Although some are hiding behind forced and well-intentioned solutions, I would remind you that in April 2016 this government, this Prime Minister, now, Mr Tsipras in Maximos, announced that the work with 'COSCO' was closed and we are adopting an agreement with which we will transfer and privatise the port. Its right is to change it or not to change it. Also, the government's right is whether it wants to - although it makes me personally sad - to be self-sufficient or to be ridiculed, whether by adopting rhetoric for the administration of manoeuvres - and I do not say so, the SYRIZA MPs say so, and they keep talking about some who are forced to do what they are doing, against their will - whether by adopting rhetoric for a manoeuvre for a manoeuvre - and I am not saying so, as if we are young children, I suffer and disagree, or with the image of the playground that we have seen here today, which the Prime Minister says, as I said, other things are done by the Minister, but the counterparty is claiming to be 'COSCO', with an inappropriate interruption and with an unnecessary national humiliation. So what the government is not entitled to do - neither this government nor any other government nor any politician in this country - is ridiculing Greece at the ends of the world, as happened today. They laughed, they say the reports, yesterday in Brussels at the expense of the governor of Greece. And before the laughter ended in Brussels, the laughter began in Beijing, where they started fighting, when they realised they were against a government that others say in the morning and others do this afternoon. And, of course, I imagine they will have been demolished in laughter from Hong Kong to Beijing after the proverbiality of the minister responsible today at noon, who changed everything - all seven points requested by the counterparty - within an hour. In the well-known Greek film "Welcome the dollar", unfolding in the Trump, there are various guys who play tricks to "delight" the Americans. I am afraid, unfortunately, that this level is the political perception that we have seen today. We do tricks in the Chinese, "Oh, they took us away, we go back to square one." It's really humiliating for this country. And I think the Chinese finally got up, since the revolutionary mirrors weren't targeting the Chinese, but the natives. They were revolutionary concubines for the trade unions and party customers. Because there is no ideological question of privatization of the port. Policies of 1950 who fight for their "globes" exist, as evidenced by the leading movement of transfers in the way they are made. In the case of 'COSCO', the Minister envied the 'OLYMPIAKI', since the customer logic had neither a forensic nor a colour. Can anyone give us an adequate political explanation of what today was? What was the point of the whole pirouette, which was unfolded during the day? Is there any seriousness in the government? Is there credibility in the country? It's okay that the country's breaking up? It's okay that Greeks pay a price again, once again? The episode is really unprecedented. There is, at least in Greek parliamentary times, the attempt to change, to differentiate the contract through the House, in secret and without the counterparty knowing it or otherwise - at least lately - in such a humiliating way that it has been made today, with the possible explanation of the parallel Christmas Eve Plan, if any, again by the same government. The price is heavy. Unlike building a climate of confidence, security, an investment climate that takes time, needs seriousness, an effort needs to be made, a little stone needs to be built, ridicule can be done immediately, quickly and without much effort. There's only one failure or a Gorcho! He doesn't need anything else. Anything that can be built is crumbling. Today the credibility of the country is falling apart and not just towards the Chinese. Those who oppose the ideological line for privatisation - I hear too many saying that 'we do not want, my child, we want something else - must tell us how, with what chapters the ports will develop, not only the port of Piraeus, how we will go through a period of development, how the ports will become a lever for growth, at a time when the country is on the wall. There are dozens of studies that say - I mention only that of IOBE - that the contribution is around 1% of GDP per year, that it is thirty-one thousand jobs by 2025 and that it is 2.3 points of GDP reduction. Is there an alternative? The government signed it. Did he have another analogue? Better? A little worse? Is there only measurable data or political estimates? They want another type of management. How? With what profits? With what chapters? Will anyone tell us something? I do not think there is any other government I can remember, which undermines itself with such consistency, in such a way as today's, who is so self-sufficiently self-sufficient! Does anyone think our Prime Minister will go to China after all this? Does anyone think there will be a Greek businessman accompanying him who can speak reliably about partnerships and investment in Greece after this image? Do they think that in this way, with the "I said, " they can attract investment in the country? Ladies and gentlemen, the country needs a firm and determined government. In order to do this, there must be ideological and political purity. The SYRIZA party lives its ideological devastation essentially, the collapse of ideologies, with which it has come to power and the consequent political deadlocks, even if you want conflicts and contradictions within it, which are indifferent to us. In this way, however, politically firm, country's exit policy from the crisis cannot stand up. It can only be set up by a gulgotian of conflicting movements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u343	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u344	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u345	You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u346	I would like to make one clarification, Madam President. A moment ago, a legislative improvement said that the word 'definitive' was added after the word 'granted' in paragraph 2 of Article 19. The right is: in Article 19(2) after the word 'exercise' the word 'definitive' is added.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u347	It will be written in the Minutes and will be taken into account. Mr. Lazarides, you have the floor. I say with you that we begin the five-minute period, that is to say, to reduce speaking time, because there is a matter and we will not be able to finish at 21.30 p.m., as Mr Lambroulis said, the vote. [[Noise - protests in the Chamber]] It does not come out, there are too many speakers, the parliamentary representatives. Make a little effort to limit ourselves. Here, Mr Lazarides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u348	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece is entering a new phase in the reconstruction phase, the recovery of the economy and the attraction of investments that put us back on the investors' map. Shortly after the closure of the assessment, investments are needed to balance all the disinvestments that took place last year. The buyer has committed himself to investments of 340m euros in the port of Piraeus, the main concerns the development of the port cruise, new tanks for ship repair and new infrastructure in the ship repair area, as described in the contract. In the hardest quarter of the economy and in the middle of Brexit an agreement is reached, the value of which is EUR 1.5 billion and includes, as we said, the EUR 368.5 million offer, compulsory investments of EUR 350 million over the next decade and the expected revenues of the Greek State from the Concession Agreement, in exchange for 3.5% of the PPA's turnover expected to be EUR 410 million. Despite any delays since 2009 and the changes to concession contracts, the transition has entered its final phase. Piraeus is becoming a relocation centre and a link between Europe and Asia, while it is expected to be upgraded, causing an increase in trade movement, increasing turnover, new jobs, and prospects for new partnerships. The activity of 'COSCO' in Port will act as a lighthouse to attract new investments, not only in the ship repair zone around the port and container centres, but also in other sectors of the economy, such as the real estate market and tourism. It is obvious that there is a lot of scope for serving and strengthening freight flows through Greece, which will make the country an international transit centre whose physical location is an important strategic asset. The strengthening of the port of Piraeus as a gateway to European markets, together with a strategic planning of combined value-added services - maritime connection with land lines and road networks, etc. - will have a positive impact on both the economic development and progress of the country and on the strengthening of its geopolitical and economic footprint. Coming for a while, as the bodies involved in the work of the committee responsible, before the draft law was introduced in plenary, it is necessary to mention the positive attitude by which the local professional bodies and chambers concerned have welcomed the contract, since they have spoken of a significant lever in the country's development. This is how the institutions, by acknowledging better terms in this agreement than the previous one, expressed in relation to the reimbursement of fees to municipalities, which ensures an important source of revenue to support their social structures, as well as strengthening infrastructure. The Convention also sets out the conditions for the use and exploitation of land, buildings and infrastructure in the territory of Limand, and the percentage of the annual consideration to the State. The important provisions provide for the exemption from the Convention on the Concession of the Fertiliser Zone in Drapetsona, while the archaeological sites of the Kinosoura Peninsula are protected. At the same time, the use of critical facilities by the Port Authority is ensured. You can imagine that there had been a loose end here, where even the Port House would pay rent for these areas. The public nature of the services of general interest, the buildings within the terrestrial zone, and a development dimension is guaranteed for the Problem 1. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance for half a minute, Madam President. The voyages that have been allocated for years to the Port House, which are vital areas, in order to be able to respond to its role, did not exist in the agreement. It is what I told you earlier that the Port House would pay a rent. They were added at the recommendation of the Ministry responsible. In addition, it is possible to ensure the stability of industrial relations through specific legislation, i.e. maintaining in force the General Staff Regulations of the PPA SA, maintaining in force the Rules of Procedure for the Internal Organisation and Operation of the PPA S.A., the option to switch workers to both PPA SA and PPA SA, to services, bodies or legal persons in the public and in the wider public sectors. And I'm now accelerating my position. All this has been systematically conquered and is primarily an important milestone of the dismantling programme, in accordance with the commitments of the Hellenic Republic and the sale contract is to be ratified after the Court of Auditors has been approved. We support this effort, as we look forward to the positive growth rates that will come from providing our own know-how in the areas of tourism, shipping and trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u349	Thank you. Mrs. Big Housekeeper has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u350	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today in plenary and yesterday in committee we witnessed an incredible, very amateur government legislative initiative. We are living today and yesterday's theater of irrationality. I don't understand. This is the first time - you will tell me that I am a new Member - that I see bills coming in, coming out, changing, the ministers not to know what they want to testify. It's completely unreasonable what we're living for. Anyway. Yesterday, while we had finished the debate with the operators and had made some decisions, the complaint letter suddenly comes from 'COSCO', which said that the bill is not the agreed text they signed. That's unbelievable, but I can assure you it's real. In fact, the Minister did not give the impression that he wanted to disprove at the time. He didn't deny it. We as the Central Association strongly support the opening up of the country to new markets, since we have created the right environment to have a new model now, not the slow-moving and gigantic public sector that existed, because of the customer state. Ladies and gentlemen, let us finally realize that there is not one minute to lose, so that our country can go forward. That is why, Minister, you must have serious and responsible political positions and not improper and irresponsible positions that expose Greece everywhere. We cannot tolerate the logic of the government that brings bills that are completely careless and sloppy. These bills finally become dangerous. Now, with regard to the individual arrangements of the agreement, let us start with ratification. First of all, I must stress very strongly how the four municipalities around the port are ensured. Will they be guaranteed with that percentage that they promised to receive and agree? Yesterday in committee we said it would be around 3.5%. Still not confirmed. I doubt that this will be the case and, in the end, the municipalities will get that percentage from 'COSCO', because everything is changing here. As a member of Piraeus - I am a breeder of Piraeus - I know very well about the Municipality of Piraeus. That's where I was born, and that's where I grew up. The municipalities have been heavily penalised in recent years both by the underfunding and by the major humanitarian crisis. And it's always been like that. Especially in Drapetsona, fertilizers died of tuberculosis all the time. We know that. Anyway, now the Fertilizers are closed and it would be nice to become a nice museum, like the Laurent. Piraeus, Drapetsona, Keracini and Perama have a large proportion of families living below the poverty line. I saw it because I visited all the municipalities and the municipalities are waiting to get some support. So it's good, at least what the municipalities are agreed to get. Also, let us not forget that the municipalities have been through this year and last year a huge problem with refugees and have been heavily burdened. Since there is no reward fee, the municipalities at least let them take this rate to continue their work. In fact, the bodies that were in the committee yesterday, regardless of whether some were in favour or others, were against, all complained without exception that the investment had no direct connection with the municipalities. I'll explain why. Because it's actually going to be a business that doesn't have any contact with the city's web. This is explained by the following: Since none of the mayors or a representative of local government take part in the board of directors - have you alienated them all - how will this operation be incorporated into the city's web? He'll just want to work for the profit. In fact, when he made the agreement, the TIADED could ask that the monuments and sights of Piraeus and the neighbouring municipalities be provided by COSCO, so that tourists at least arriving with cruise ships can visit the municipalities. Thus, visiting the municipalities and seeing the sights of Piraeus or the monuments - which Piraeus has many monuments - could visit Piraeus and increase the local economy, walk in the streets of Piraeus, give another life, not enter the cruise ship for the Acropolis and tanapalin. Piraeus is unwritten. It's just a point where they're taken and brought in. Another big issue is the absolute stand we must take on our cultural heritage. I find it gratifyingly unacceptable that all archaeological sites should not be guaranteed. In fact, I submit for the record the letter of Mayor Salamis. I referred yesterday to the committee on the use of archaeological monuments, but it was once again a voodoo voice in the wilderness. I don't think anyone heard it. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Theodora Megalonikou, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] On the subject of transfers, on Article 10, I have to say that people are watching and now they are watching the House very often, because they see that the House is not going well. The port is granted to a company that does not undertake to keep its staff, but is given the right, if they do not want the workers, to be able to transfer. Why not keep them under the contracts and the conditions already in existence and be transferred to the public authorities? How will they be transferred to the public? Does he have the public funds? Does he have the money? What criteria will it have to turn them into the public and it will be able? Already civil servants are surpluses, will the public people who 'COSCO' think they don't need them? I mean, the company will keep the trained staff, whatever it thinks is useful, and the useless will throw it away. It considers, in other words, that the public is nothing but a basket of inappropriate people. Anything we don't have to put it in public.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u351	Ms. Big Economics, you've exceeded the original time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u352	I'm sorry. With regard to the so-called ship repair unit, I visited Perama and tell you that you live in delusion. There's no repair unit. She's been dead long ago. Thousands of jobs have been lost and, indeed, high-level know-how and professionals are still at a dead end. With regard to Article 11, which refers to the payment of fees and taxes, the company will not pay any lighting or...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u353	Ms. Big Housekeeper, it can't be! This is where we cut time. Don't you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u354	I'm sorry, but the others spoke seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u355	But how? It can't be done!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u356	In a minute, Madam President. So the company will take over the lighting and the collection of garbage. So, with that reason, does the municipality only offer lighting and the collection of garbage? The streets, the sidewalks, the other equally important issues don't offer them? Just the lighting? With this thinking, sooner or later, the airport will say the same thing, not to pay back. But it is paradoxical that we offer a profitable company, without asking to be properly exploited and without the proper study that has to be done. Unfortunately, Minister, that is what you failed. I want to hope at least that Greece will be able to move forward, because hope is dying lately. She's the one we have to try to keep alive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u357	Please let us all be in time. We're tired, and we have to be specific. Time exercises are the parliamentary procedure. Mr. Amyras has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u358	I am a parliamentary representative, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u359	Yes, but your Chief spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u360	Are you really saying that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u361	Unfortunately, the Rules of Procedure say so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u362	Well, then we'll follow the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u363	I'll be a little tolerant, because your Chief didn't take out his time as Chief.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u364	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if you've been watching foreign news in the last few hours or if you've been on foreign websites talking about China. The international image that the country emits to these sites and news agencies is - I will tell you in a very simple way - that the Greeks tried to make a bamboo against the Chinese and in the end they were forced to dictate, to be in the process of voting for the initial concession of the port of Piraeus. Don't laugh, Minister. It is very regrettable that the country's position has been weakened by an incomprehensible one, and it seems to me that the Minister for Maritime Affairs has not been studied at all. I would like to make a brief comment to you. I have never seen, with my small parliamentary term, the loneliest minister sitting in the cabinet. Usually, so far, many ministers came and supported the accelerated minister. Here was not a single reason to tell us in today's draft law "Yes, Mr. Dritsas did well and he presented another contract than the one the Greeks had actually signed with the Chinese". However, I have to say...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u365	You should be aware that there was a decision of the Conference of Presidents yesterday to speak only one Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u366	Madam President, I would like you to keep my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u367	It's a Conference decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u368	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u369	It's a Conference decision. It's more of surveillance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u370	Yes, sir. However, Mr President, I will tell you then the conclusion of what I said to you, which is also drawn from something else. Mr Dritsas had initially said "It is not my responsibility for alteration..." - or for change, as you wish, say - "... the Convention, but it is the General Secretariat of the Government." Mr Flavourakis then came and we hear Mr Dritsa saying: 'It is my responsibility and not the other Ministers'. So these are indicative of the climate within the government. But deception or the way, if you like, from the Prime Minister's illusion to the deception of Parliament, the Chinese investors and the Greek citizens, is an ever-increasing path. Mr. Dritsa, I wanted your opinion on this, but you were out of the Chamber. Anyway, as you can see, my speech goes in a strange way of time...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u371	I hear it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u372	But, Dr. Dritsa, we have the impression that no one was finally deceived from the front - yours back. You brought us another contract, other than the one that had actually been signed and agreed between the Greek and Chinese side...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u373	That's not true. I did.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u374	For example, Mr. Dritsa, I shall now report to you under Rule 5...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u375	You have no convincing arguments for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u376	Listen, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u377	No one was deceived. Nothing's changed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u378	Nothing's changed? So listen. Article 5: Authorisation and application of regulations. Mr Dritsas first brings us the provision that says 'No provision of the concession may be interpreted in a way that prevents the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy from exercising the powers of the Minister for Foreign Affairs'. There is chaos with the Chinese and now Mr Dritsas brings us as a legislative improvement: 'The phrase is added that the ministerial powers...' - take note, ladies and gentlemen, says the Minister himself, speaking for himself - 'in no case can they be exercised in a manner contrary to the provisions of the ratified Concession Agreement'. So make up your mind, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u379	It's in the contract.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u380	Minister, you will take the floor. Let him go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u381	First of all, calm down, Minister. However, let us also come to the contents of the contract. So far, you yourself have told us, like the Prime Minister,'moles'! It was not only Leonidas, you said so, when the ports were to be privatised. Now what are you telling us? You're telling us 'false vote'! That's what you're telling us. But Mr Tsipras also reminds you that he had said, during the glorious period of the anti-immemorial struggle: 'How will the foreigners take our ports when we themselves as government do not want it, with cannons?' So, uh, tell us, Mr. Dritsa, did the registrants enter Piraeus, so they took the port? With your signature, they take it from the port. The citizens, therefore, do not accept the impoverishment. That's enough! And if we look at the Internet and the SYRIZA program, as it had been posted on your party website just before the 2015 elections, we will see the following: Signing the respective local organization of SYRIZA and Theodoros Dritsas. Then he wasn't a minister. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What did Mr. Drits say? He said: “The government has no right and no legitimacy to carry out acts that pluck the country out and mortgage its future. SYRIZA will now defend as an Opposition and quickly as a government the public character of the port." Do you want to tell us, Mr. Dritsa, if the Chinese are Greek public? Is it or isn't it? We also know that you will again invoke the blackmailing of Brussels, the tears of the ministers on the wet bills of privatisation and, of course, the pressure of lenders. But when you used to say'moon-leaved', you now cannot be trusted with what you are saying to us. Or "move" or whatever we want to do, in relation to the orders or pressures of the so-called "exporters" partners, lenders. Also, I remind you that in March 2014, you yourself, Mr. Dritsa, had made a announcement and declared, denounced the express procedures for the then threatened, for you, privatization of the port of Piraeus: "The TIADED in the middle of the night published on his page the call of interest for the PPA". You guys in the middle of the night didn't bring us the bill? In the middle of the night, didn't you bring it to us? In the middle of the night again, didn't you go back? Last year's sellout of the port was made available, Minister? Complaints about photographic provisions in the tender were made in the bill. In other words, what the citizens, what you said as Opposition or what you are doing as government, which is exactly the opposite. However, the war against privatization has kicked out investment funds, aggravated the country's economic situation, raised the tax bill, which you are constantly sending the citizens more and more inflated. We believe that your ideas have damaged the country and your complaints last year have not broken up in the bill we are called upon to vote on. In any case, to conclude, Madam President, we in Potami believe that the privatisation of the port of Piraeus is a positive step because it is structural, it is not collectible. And we support any healthy business move, which will mobilize investments, create new jobs and shield our productive base.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u382	Finish, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u383	Let me just say that, Madam President. Let the Minister himself tell us, who I heard before in his position, that he should refer to an almost forced option, namely the sale of the port of Piraeus, if he feels that he is a forced almost Minister. What's the matter? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u384	Don't complain. Come on, Mr. Caranastasis, you have the floor. Then there's Mrs. Asmakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u385	Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law in question does not require any particular recommendations on its content. The question of the port of Piraeus concerns public opinion in our country for more than a decade. Since February 13, 2002, with the first concession contract, which was considered to be a fundamental condition for the expression of private investment interest in the acquisition of a majority in the PPA to date, a lot of ink was poured into the PPA and spent several hours of discussions and confrontation in order to reach the current legislation, which, apart from the fact that it constitutes an unsuccessful contractual commitment by the Greek State, is undoubtedly linked to the incorporation of an investment security and stability climate. Referring to the unsuccessful contractual commitment of the Greek State, I naturally mean the commitment resulting from the provisions of Law 3986/2011, whereby about 74% of the shares issued by the Greek State were retained until the shares were transferred to the HIPS by means of relevant decisions of the Interministerial Committee on Restructuring and Privatisation. At this point, it is indeed important to clarify that the privatization model to which the previous governments have easily joined the ports of Piraeus and Thessaloniki is far from the standard which is currently - the landlord model - dominated within the European Union. Furthermore, it can only be pointed out that this option was made although the previous governments had the opportunity to grant individual terminals within ports. Therefore, they are your choices, ladies and gentlemen of the Major Opposition, which in many cases define the contents of the bill. Furthermore, I would point out that the completion of the privatisations of the ports of Piraeus and Thessaloniki, which had already started by previous governments, was incorporated into the term 4.4 of Law No.4336/2015, which was ratified by Parliament by a large majority. Do you remember, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, PASOK, the Potamiou, the draft Financial Assistance Convention of Greece from the European Stability Mechanism in August 2015, the well-known memorandum, with which, of course, you do not want to have anything to do with it today, but have you sought it this past year? Mr President, I am ending here my reference to the complaints and hypocritical remarks made by the opposition, particularly the parties of the governments, which brought these catastrophic results to our country. Following the September 2015 elections, a systematic and organised effort was made by the Government to renegotiate the conditions of privatisation. In addition, in line with our principles and positions and after the entry into force of Law No4389/2016, conditions and conditions for alternative development of ports are created, without any doubt public control being called into question. The Government has submitted this draft law, which summarised or guaranteed the following: It has initially transferred 51% of the shares and then only if reversible sects are paid, the remaining 6%. He excluded the concession agreement for the Lipama Zone, guaranteed the protection of many areas of the archaeological sites of the Kinosuras Peninsula, ensured the use of critical facilities for the Port House and the Greek Coast Guard, safeguarded the public character - which is important - of the public interest in services and of course guaranteed the protection of labour rights. It is a common place, ladies and gentlemen, but we must always have our minds that ensuring the vital role of the port of Piraeus for maritime interconnection with island Greece, supporting the country's tourism development, ship repair activities and so forth, and exploring and recording investments in port infrastructure and construction, which the private investor will undertake to implement in order to strengthen the development of the port, are unnegotiable points and thus remain with this bill. Furthermore, the entire process of revising the existing concession agreement does not affect certain fundamental elements and assumptions, such as the full, exclusive and undisputed right of ownership of the Greek State over the land area of Piraeus port, the land that constitutes them, the buildings and facilities on it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I will be done in a minute. The nature of the terrestrial zone as a public sector and the absolute application of the relevant constitutional provisions, as well as the duration of the contract ending in 2052. As a success of the government, it should be taken into account that the rate of calculation of the concession is increasing from the current 2% to 3.5% and is set at a minimum of the annual fee paid for the total remaining duration of the contract the amount of approximately EUR 3,500,000, which represents approximately 3.5% of the current annual turnover of the PPA. The fact is that the port of Piraeus can and should contribute to strengthening the growth rates of the Greek economy, increasing GDP and creating jobs. The full use of the opportunities, in terms of dignity, is the basic obligation of the Greek State on the day following the ratification of the proposed draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not proud that my country is in a bad position to grant the management of national wealth to foreigners. But I am very proud that the government, which I support, is making great efforts to get the country out of this bad position, in which we all know who has brought it. They are the ones who have led this private sector to support, think not to support it - to lose one and a half million positions in recent years and they are also the ones who swing our fingers and ask for the resignation of the government. We support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u386	Thank you. Mrs Asimakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u387	Thank you, Madam President. You know, we came to discuss this draft law, this very strategic and important agreement, which concerns the port of Piraeus, in a good mood, as we have a good attitude towards the Greek airport, towards TAP, against all these very important and very important agreements, which were launched on the day of the Antonis Samaras government. But we are also ideologically positively predisposed. Why do we think this is a good thing and this agreement, like the other agreements to which I have referred? Because they help, bring public revenues, because public infrastructures are improving, because they are dropping money on the market, because - and perhaps this is the most important thing in today's juncture for all of us - they create jobs. That is why we were and we are in favour of these things over time. In all the efforts we have made over time you are against these things and ideological and political. You have not voted for anything like this as an Opposition. You are against these things, participating in and organising dynamic, mobilising, electorally with promises that you are not now holding, with great ministerial and programming statements that they will not be made for your days and others. Now that's it. Now we have the other story. We have this story that-- let me-- it's the story of crying. It is what it says: "But we do not want these things, we do not believe them, but if we are backed up by the wall and the bad strangers, the blackmailers, are now obliging us to do these things, which we do not want and we cry a little." But in the end you sign everything the way it is. You're signing everything. And when they come to Parliament, you say 'yes' all the hands. This is the new story. And somewhere you say you've improved something. And can I tell you something? I'm telling you, of course, if you improved something in the public interest, where would we be? Opposite? What for? We believe these are from the outset that they are in the direction of improving the public interest. We'd be with you. And if you asked for our help, which we have experience, in how to improve them, we'd be at your side again. I think, however, that Mr Varvitsiotis, who was also the person responsible for this agreement, answered in detail one one of these arguments you have put forward to improve the conditions. So I'm not standing on it. I stand by the fact that we have a common rhetoric in recent times, a rhetoric that says: 'Now that the evaluation has been closed, with enormous delay and great cost, we have to go below and what we need is investment'. Investment shock is needed. Mr Mardas says so, which says we want 100 billion, Mr Stathakis 120 billion. Investment shock needs to be started. I agree with this statement. An investment shock is needed, except that, unfortunately for the country, you cannot cause an investment shock. What you are causing, in your attitude, is a shock to investors, which is not the point. It is a shock to the existing investors, to the Skouries, who were not given permission at first, and of course Mr. Skourletis has now given it all. Sok happens to investors when they see a minister, like Mr. Spirtzis, crying, hurting, something to do when he signs these. Shock, your counterparties were also affected yesterday, as we saw from the letter they submitted to the National Representation. It was shocked because, please, it can't be done. Anyone who compares from one of her letter 'COSCO' to the points she says that the agreement has changed, with the current legislative improvements brought by the Minister - I do not care if the changes made by the Minister or the General Secretariat of the Government or by an alien from Mars - who compares these two things will see that what has happened today is clearly called a political shrimp. That's what it's called. And the answer - I sum up - from the Communism is always the same. It's not original at all, it's childish, it's splitting and it's repeated all the time. It is this question: Who are you with? When you do not have any arguments anymore, when you cannot justify political custodians, you say: 'You with whom are you?' Because we, you know, are always with the bad guys. Whoever the bad guy is, we're with the bad guys. That's the question. I do not like to leave questions unanswered, however, even when they are childish and tiring and repetitive and completely anachronistic. In other words, seeing in Olympiacos - Panathinaikos, Left - Right in the theme of the economy is childish and anachronistic. So who are you with? Who are we with? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We, therefore, because you cannot cause an investment shock, but only shock to investors, we are generally aware, of all the people you have caused shock. And I'm not talking about investors. I'm talking about all the people you've caused shock. The day before was one year from the capital controls. We are with the Greek women and the Greeks to whom you caused shock by closing the banks. We are with the Greek women and the Greeks who have lost their job because they have been in shock because PYRUSSOS shut down, the "LEDRA MARRIOTT" and now MARINOPOULOS is closed. We're with them. We are with the businessmen who have been in shock because they are struggling with your taxation to keep your businesses open. We are with the inhabitants of the islands that have been shocked, because there is no longer a reduced VAT. We are with the average Greek consumer who goes to the supermarket and is in shock every week, when he sees that VAT has been increased and with all the Greeks who will be in shock, when the tax returns, the cleansing and, of course, the ENPIA will be abolished together with the reduced objective values that you would give them. With all those who've been in shock, we're the ones to answer you. Because it seems - and I close, Madam President - that the only person in this country who has not been shocked is Mr Tsipras. Or rather to fix this, the other day in his statement he said it was a shock of historical proportions Brexit. And what shocked Mr. Tsipras - now you call that funny - was what? Mr. Cameron says he didn't have plan B when he put the referendum on the table. Excuse me for saying it and laughing. He didn't have a plan B. While, of course, last year, Mr Tsipras had Plan B. It was Mr. Varoufakis, Mrs. Constantopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u388	That was another question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u389	I don't know which plan B was. I guess shock has happened, because, you know, in civilised and serious countries there is a referendum, and when it comes to 'no' it is 'no', it is 'no' and then we turn it into something else. If not all of this is shocked by Mr Tsipras, like what happened in here today, by the Minister or the General Secretariat of the Government, and then by that, I do not know what shocks him, but I am making you a prediction. He'll be shocked when he sees the results of the next election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u390	Mr. Carras, come on. Mr. Carras, because you caught Mr. Leventis and there will be...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u391	I'm going to make an economy, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u392	Please do. Because you typically have ten minutes, but actually...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u393	I'll try to make an economy...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u394	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u395	Thank you, Madam President. I shall therefore say this, Madam President. The contract, as at least by the media, was showing a glimpse of hope, for the reason that there was still a strong investment interest in our country. There is no doubt that everyone in this Chamber, there is no doubt that in society, we are all waiting for foreign investments, which, on the one hand, will mark the recovery of confidence in the Greek economy, but at the same time, insofar as each is capable of starting productive activity, will give rise to an income. What is lacking from our country at the moment, with great unemployment, is income, because there is no employment, and, respectively, lack of savings in banks. Don't expect us to have a big flow of capital, which will invade the country and give a move. If we don't take care of ourselves, we can't do much. I said, therefore, that this agreement was hoped for, which I must make clear that it has finally made the 'COSCO' regulator of developments. And why am I saying that? A concession contract has been submitted by the Greek State, typically to a Greek company, to Piraeus Port Authority. This is a Greek company, for which we all know that at some point the majority package, after a competition that has been conducted, will be transferred to 'COSCO' or to a subsidiary. But it won't change the subject. The company will remain in Greece. I am one of those where I claim that the Greek territory is not being transferred abroad. Whoever the shareholder is, national sovereignty will continue to exist, even with some restrictions on contractual terms. Today, unfortunately, we have witnessed an incident, if you want me to call it, which was unjustified, and I can say it was both ignorant and naive. So what happened? There has been an effort - which we should not have done - to change certain conditions of the concession agreement already. This effort, therefore, has created a reaction. I shall still call it 'COSCO'. He has neither the administration of the Port Authority of Piraeus nor is still in possession of the majority package of shares. And yet this foreign company, in here in the Chamber, became a regulator. And from what I understand, he became regulator yesterday in the committee, in the letter he sent. Ladies and gentlemen, these issues should not have been created. And I say this because, in the morning, we had to put a stop to the sitting until we saw what the final text on which the House will be discussing, the Minister told us that 'in a short time I will bring legislative improvements' - most of them and we questioned whether it was legislative improvements or legislation in itself or on provisions, because it might also change philosophy in many respects. We have therefore left - and I would like to repeat this - to become a regulator of political developments, an exotic factor. This shouldn't have happened. And that has a consequence. It also has a result and a reflection. Make the country, ladies and gentlemen, vulnerable to subsequent such arrangements. It was made vulnerable because anyone, from wherever they come - investor you want me to name him, you want me to call him a capitalist who is interested in influencing a coarse money in Greece - felt that he is in power and Greece is weak. If these phenomena are repeated, we should be very careful, because in future there will be risks. These concessions by definition, since they are public service concessions - not to be hidden, ports are public goods - have the right and the government is able to grant their exclusive use to investors, to companies that are supposed to be able to improve both the economic performance and the provision of services. Yeah, well, he doesn't have a spot. But the way in which this so-called negotiation has been handled was not appropriate. I will make a crisis - and forgive me - with the experience of the law, which I have. Only if we stand up to the contents of the Convention, as in the list of its appendices, should we first say that it is a good contract. I don't go into the detailed content. First of all, I shall call it a good contract, but we have weakened it from the outset, and indeed with a collective governmental responsibility. I will not dwell on whether it is because of the Minister for Maritime Affairs or whether it is because of the General Secretariat of the Government, or I do not know what other factors have been referred to in the wording or the changes that have been made. It is collective responsibility and reflects the consequences in the country. We therefore believe that this convention should not be treated as such. It has been treated and made - I will repeat it with every consequence of my words - which is vulnerable to the country in subsequent moves. I don't go into the details of the contract. It's known, they've been analysed. Let me just say this: could this have been better? Why could it be better? Its economic return is small, a 3.5% on turnover and overall turnover. I cannot predict whether it should have been 7%, 8% or 10% for the reason that we have to see its profitability so that it can meet its obligations. However, it should have had a clause in there for some percentages when turnovers were achieved over a higher amount. We were told that half the Eastern Mediterranean would be moved from the port of Piraeus. There is a claim that TREENOSE should be involved either on the acquisition of it or on the concession of premises in Triasios. I don't want to say rocked rabbits. We are therefore told that the country's GDP will be increased. Since the investment is going to increase, then, if the investment is serious, put more money, gentlemen. You can no longer, I say theoretically, that this debate is over. However, if there were strong and serious negotiations, we should have an escalation. It was about 3.5 percent at the beginning. But if we were to spend a certain amount of turnover of five hundred million, eight hundred million, one billion a year, we could have caught 4%, 5%. If we were to escalate - and I did not understand why this was not the case - we could also have rewarding benefits for the municipalities. For our part, Mrs. Big Economics analysed this part for the reward benefits. But that also remains static. I think, therefore, that these issues should be dealt with. It's not the moment. I am referring to them as examples of the future. The Centro Association has manifested itself too many times and developed its will. He wants economic growth. Therefore, it cannot overlook that such contracts will contribute to restarting the economy. However, we must not repeat the error made in procedural terms, but also during the negotiation of this convention. We expect better contracts for the country, we expect better performances so that we can say that we will move forward in the future. As long as we are vulnerable, we will deal with these issues within the Chamber of Parliament and will have to face up to the challenges of the day, the protests and the rivalries in this area, and a wider consensus will be needed. So, as our rapporteur, Mr Georgiadis, has said, we will vote in principle. Forgive me for the remarks I made. I consider them useful for the future and, if necessary, we will come back to discuss the same issues. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u396	Thank God you'd speak less, Mr. Carras! Now it's Mr. Demetriadis' turn. Mr. Leventis, would you like to speak now or after Mr. Dimitriadis?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u397	I'll talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u398	Here, Mr. Dimitriadis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u399	Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, it is a fact that the main policy of privatising public property, especially for strategic public property, is against our basic political plan. It is not an ideal issue for us. They are key rules for fair and sustainable development with a view to defending common goods and natural public wealth. Our conviction of the rightness of the core of our political perception remains strong and active. Our political project for the development of public and resource has accepted an important structure from the need to adapt to the summer agreement. We cannot implement this as it is, we have compromised a new plan which simply limits everything to part. We didn't change targets, we changed track. We've adapted the means. The old agreement required a divestment of the entire public property, in favour of the debt alone at a level of - listen - EUR 50 billion. We have negotiated and formed this possibility for a certain number - about nineteen agreed concessions - of EUR 6.2 billion for the privatisations already launched and we have the responsibility of our people's political mandate. We will implement this agreement in the best possible way and always for the benefit of the wider social interest. So first and foremost we managed to change major aspects of the concession agreement, although the previous governments did not follow the dominant trend of privatisation in Europe and did not go ahead with granting individual terminals within ports, as they might have been able to do. Under Law4389/2016 new conditions are created for the alternative development of ports, without any doubt putting state control into question. The privatisations of the ports of Piraeus and Thessaloniki initiated by previous governments were incorporated into the term 4.4 of Law4336/2015, which was voted by a large majority in Parliament last summer. So we only have to defend what we could change. In the negotiation that took place after September 2015, the following changes were made: First, 51% of the shares are initially transferred and then, once the abstractions are paid, the remaining 16% after years. The Fertilizer Zone in Keratsini is excluded from the concession agreement. This is what you will allow me to insist a little more on because this is a flagrant political act of our Government because it is our example of sustainable development, it is our intervention to upgrade the quality of life of the people's refugee neighbourhoods, it is the honour and self-renunciation contract of the Left with its roots and its world, the refugee Hellenism, the popular neighbourhoods, the world of work that is fighting in an uncomfortable and historical manner for its emancipation. Many areas and archaeological sites of the peninsula of Kinosura are also protected. The use of critical facilities by the Port Body and the Greek Coast Guard is ensured. There is a development dimension for Problem I, protection for immovable property outside the terrestrial zone, protection of the public interest of services, protection of workers' rights. In addition, the public authority of a port shall be established by Law No.43899/2016. The revised concession contract was signed on 24 June 2016 by the relevant Finance and Maritime Ministers. The revised concession agreement constitutes an amendment, supplementation, specialisation and codification in a single text of the existing concession contract, which is not solved. I would add with regard to the prohibitions that the merger or transformation of the PPA is prohibited without the consent of the Greek State. The PPA is required to respect certain key restrictive financial indicators and sizes which are the presumption of the economic viability indicators. We have also taken additional initiatives to further protect and prudent management of the marine and land environment, to incorporate the port more effectively into combined transport systems, in particular with adequate and reliable railway response. At first and immediate level, the completion of the development of the PPA will benefit the Greek State - through TIDE - because of the collection of a total of EUR 368.500,000 as a sales price of 67% of the shares. Particularly worthwhile is the benefits of the contractually planned compulsory investment programme of EUR 350,000,000 only over the next decade. Furthermore, there are economic analyses and studies which show that the privatisation of the PPA will bring the Greek public about EUR 900,000,000 - at nominal prices - and that GDP will increase by 0.8%, it will add over 31,000 new jobs in the period 2016-2025. The sure thing is that a stable orientation of the Greek governments must be to make use of the possibilities of the port of Piraeus in order to strengthen the economy and competitiveness at local, regional and national level. It is certain that the port of Piraeus can and should help to strengthen the growth rates of the Greek economy, increase GDP and create new jobs. It can also become part of the upward spiral of the reconstruction of the economy, focusing on our comparative advantages and productive potential of local human resources. The so-called concerns of the party 'yes' for deception of the concessionaire demonstrates the convulsions of the old political system that seeks permanently a thousand days to be justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u400	Mr. Leventis has the floor. Your time is twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u401	Tolerant.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u402	Not with tolerance. We've said it's over at 21:30. Today you have a polylogy as a party.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u403	You're few too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u404	It's okay. You have the floor, Mr. Leventis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u405	Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today the issue of 'COSCO' was raised by some mistakes that must have happened, I believe. This contract was required by the State to be ratified. Therefore, I do not think it was the intention of the Minister or the government not to ratify the convention. In fact, when the issue was first raised, I wanted to know on what issues there were changes. I did not like the Chinese sending a letter, in some ways, cruel to a country in which they want to invest. I did not like the style of the letter: 'or you change them, or...'. These aren't things. We have given some rights as a country and some need to understand that Greece is an independent, democratic country and has a people proud. We want investment, but we also want dignity. The style of the Chinese letter, despite what they might have been right, was not appropriate. To be explained in all directions. In any case, both the Prime Minister and the government have given the right solution so that the Prime Minister's journey will not be found in a difficult position in China. I will not try to pluck on this issue. And I think that badly some parts of the counterpopulation have insisted on this. The contract will be ratified. I was on a channel the other day and a journalist told me "do something for Marinopoulos". Do you know what Andreas Papandreou did before when he went bankrupt? He had founded the AOA, and he went and...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u406	SNEs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u407	Anyway. Mr. Panjas is older and he remembers the name better. So go and make the state the businessman. Do you know how much we lost from them? That's why Greece went bankrupt. And there's a lot of them. ‘SOFTEX’, ‘BELKA’. Should I list the companies? What can we do? When it's a state-owned company, you appoint a commissioner and you try. State-owned companies are being saved again. There goes the state putting the money in spite of the deficits. When they're private, what do we do? Should the state go and put the one and a half billion left by Marinopoulos? Is that what we want? This thing can't be done. The only solution is to find an investor. I wanted to visit Sklavenite. I wonder and I wonder, since some discussions have been held, why this cooperation has not been successful. The state has no business going to do the business. Andreas Papandreou, who said it was Yale's - and you made a full ceremony days ago for the 20th year of his departure from life - had done the stupidest thing: he had gone to the businessman's state. And he confessed that. In my opinion, therefore, the government must insist that there are too many workers and that there are more chains with MARINOPULOS at all costs on finding an investor. There is no other solution. Mr Hatzinikolaou, when he broadcasted the day before yesterday with Mr Mitsotakis, at some point he said that there is a party leader who was not agreed to file complaints in Germany about the damage done by Siemens. He begs my words. When I was on my own show, when I went there, I told him that it was not our country's interest, while we were in the preamble to the evaluation, to file a complaint at the same time. That's what I told him. Mostly about the Timing I disagreed. In the meantime, however, a compromise has been made by the Greek State in the case of ‘SIEMENS’. Now, I do not know whether SIEMENS has given them the due amount. This is another case. It is a matter of the authorities because they are not after SIEMENS to execute the decision. Since a compromise has come, can we then come back? Is the state serious when it makes a compromise, even unfavourable? Because the 'COSCO' case today has some negative elements. There's no doubt about it. The Greek has even more negative elements, because it is a unique green lung in Attica. If the Greek becomes a casino, parking and the buildings that some dream of, then to take our children for a walk, we should either go to Sounio or to Oinofytas or beyond. When the Greek finishes, we will cry for the Greek. We want investment, but we also want dignity. Some people forget that in this Chamber. Anyway. So, Mr. Hatzinikolau tried to show me as a German friend. And I gave him the answer - and on his show, I gave him the answer - that also Eleftherios Venizelos had presented him as an Englishman, but he took Greece as far as he is. Without Venizelos Greece would be as far as Lamia. And they called him an Anglophilis. And he replied: "I am not Greek, I am not English-speaking, but I think that Greece's interests are in that direction at the moment". So that's what I'm answering. I think we should have good relations with Germany. It's my opinion. Do you want us to start boiling them, see what benefit we'll be gaining? That's all. I am not saying that we should be subject to what they are asking, nor should we be subject to demands. I think, however, that at the moment too, since we need the German factor in what we do, to send investments and others, at the same time also to bring actions on issues that have been legally closed to prove that there is another one saying here. Who's gonna respect us after that? I'm surprised Mr. Hadjikolau did this attack to me. He had also done a show before, since the last one with me, where he had four journalists who wouldn't let me talk and fight to get me a German friend, take me out of stuff. It doesn't bother me. It will prove, as will the JRC. The JRC has produced a brochure in which, listen to what it writes on the second page: "The Centro Association is developing into the best propaganda of the most reactionary proposals". That's what the JRC says. And he distributes this form to the JRC. When they say'reactive proposals', you know - I'm watching the 'RIZOPASTI' that explains it - what they mean? Because I call for the three pensions to be merged into one and no one to be more than EUR 1,500, because I call for the pensions of the rich to be abolished - Australia has already abolished the pensions of the rich - because I am asking for this, Mr Koutsoubas considers that I am a reactionary. So Mr. Koutsubas is the advocate of the wealthy pensioners and the entrepreneurs. That's what I have to say. Why, what am I asking? The three hundred and thirty thousand three-fold Greek main pensions merging into one and one million fifty thousand double pensions becoming one. This crime is considered reactionary. Mr. Katrugalos has said 3.078. Today many take 3,078 euros and others open up the garbage cans to eat and go to the Metropolitans. I told Mr. Katrugalo: How do you allow this? Shouldn't the 3,000 come down? Should the mailman bring to some 3,000? People worked. I'm not questioning it. They paid contributions. I didn't say they took them illegally. But some people take 3,000 and others eat at the Metropolitans and have one and a half million unemployed? And Mr Katrugalos told me in his visit that it is unconstitutional to cut them off and that he also spoke with the President of the Republic that he cannot cut them off. I don't believe that. For emergencies, we had to be braver. That's my opinion. And I told the Prime Minister when I met. I say: Why do you keep pensions of 3,078 euros? People hear all this. I come to the point of simple analogy. It's gonna come out, I guess, a week ago. Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis on Mr. Huntinikolaou's "STON INDUSTRIAL" show called criminals those who want the simple analogue because it will lead to insolence, as he said. On the other hand, he went to the European People's Party, which has only 90% of the countries there. So he co-existed with criminals. Finns, Germans. And Germany is simply proportional. [[Applause]] Mr. Mitsotakis dreams of returning or self-powering or missing only five, six to do his games. Speaking of which, as he said, we have insolence - if we do the simple analogue - to tell us how this country went bankrupt. Did he get bankrupt by some who were self-powered and trying to stay in power what they did? Rooselets, assignments, scandals, and one after another. And everyone did it. Simitis, Mitsotakis, old Karamanlis. Everyone. Samaras. Rooselets. Samaras said he wouldn't do anything and he did three hundred thousand with a stage. And you know what they said to those with the stags? "If you go into public service, you don't go out with anything." They made fun of people. It also says Mr Mitsotakis will bring about a hundred and twenty-three thousand jobs a year, become two surplus and will have 4% growth rate. And I saw him in the Chamber's toilet, and I say, "The hundred and twenty-three thousand counted?" Because I'm a hundred and ten thousand. How do you get a hundred and twenty-three? So I turn to the New Democracy: the seasons have changed. If I was pleased about something from the Prime Minister, it is that in my debate in Maximou, I saw that he was coming towards the positions of the Central Association. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Why are you noisy? When I blame Mitsotakis, am I good? I saw a Prime Minister who told me that he wanted from the next House to be three, four parties in the government. That's what I saw. That's the truth. This is the position of the Central Association. Since I've been involved in politics, you know, my dream has been the simple analogue. If you see my papers since 1986, the simple analogue had a main article. If you see the nine points I sent to Mr. Tsipras, first article had the simple analogue. Even with a bad plan, to overthrow the plans and bring Mitsotakis to power and evil to act by Tsipras, since my child's request was my simple analogue, ever since I felt the world, I will not vote for it? And are there going to be other parties with their dreams as well and they're not going to vote for the evil ones? So, what do they want? Get 50 bonus seats for Mr. Mitsotakis? Is that what people want? Because I ask PASOK Members and others. What do they want? Because if you don't vote, gentlemen, Mitsotakis will get fifty bonuses.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u408	Tsipras will take them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u409	I think that when a Prime Minister, who has made a thousand mistakes - Mr Tsipras - and most importantly that he believed in a vision that did not come out - said he would unite the South against the North, he said that he would change Europe and a thousand two which were named 'fraud' - he is coming towards the positions of a smaller party, it is an honour. It doesn't succumb. The Prime Minister sees power as a difficult thing and that if there were more reasonable views, the country would have gone further. And I'm the one who said so from the outset to make a government with Mr. Mitsotakis. I also wanted Mr. Mitsotakis. And he explained to me he can't. And Mr. Mitsotakis sat next to me in the Poseidonia and said: "I can't do with them, Mr. President. Whatever else you want, ask me, I can't do with them." We therefore have an immateriality of the political system. We have created an enemy, and we are hostages of that hostility. The worst part, however, is that it is the hostage of this hostage. Some have rushed to say, because the Central Association is going to vote - straight away I said it - the simple analogue with the abolition of the bonus and a vote in the tenths of the young, that I am approaching SYRIZA. They'll be disguised. It will just be my pleasure that SYRIZA will come to the center, because the origin of the Centre and the Left is common. Well, you know, it's a common origin for people's struggles. It will be my pleasure that a SYRIZA, who so far had reforestation positions, make them more accessible, more enforceable, more reasonable. And for you, all the Members of SYRIZA, would it not be your pleasure not to hide behind the word delusion and sign Memorials, which you had at first dedicated and cursed? I think that's a burden and a shadow over every member of SYRIZA. Isn't that right? I will say to the JRC - I will give for the minutes this document of the JRC, which considers me reactive - that all I do is ask those who have a sacrifice for the weak. If that's a reaction, then what's the action? To keep at the forefront of someone, to starve the rest of them, to be unemployed a million and a half people. And according to Mr Koutsouba, this is action. I'll give it for the Minutes. [[Mr Vassilis Leventis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] How much time do I have? Because we missed time too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u410	Time's up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u411	I shall conclude, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the next week or the next week, if the matter of simple analogy is to be judged, is very important. It's not meant to be a democrat and want to get fifty bonus seats for the other. Gods be wise to be in New Democracy, ask for bonuses. In other words, you ask for seats that do not correspond to voters. And you don't have the right to ask. The most honest thing would be for you to adapt to the new reality and start your efforts to enlarge with a circle of contacts. That would be the most honest thing. As Tsipras called, you'd better call us too. I did not say that tomorrow, after the elections, if I had a 7% -8% vote, as I hope, I'm going with Tsipras. I wish I could come with you if you accept my views. If you accept. But you want to have advantage and dictatorial perception, do what you want. And you want to do this with bonuses. You do not want to do it with elected MPs. You want bonuses, Mr. Treasury, since I see you. And Mrs Bakoyannis said, yesterday I listened to her on the radio: "Leventis has a small party and instead of nine would take eleven, twelve seats. That's why he does it, to win two, three seats." Mrs. Bakoyannis, you left New Democracy and had made a party, the Democratic Alliance. Then, in the Democratic Alliance, you wanted 50 seats bonuses for the first party? Oh, no. That's when he wanted to be analog. So the makers of the New Democracy are with good and good interests. I would like to ask Mrs Bakoyannis if, when she was in the Democratic Alliance and had come to a break with Samaras, she was in favor of the 50-seat bonus. I believe that both the JRC and the PASOK should vote for both the Potami and the Potami. We may have great differences with the government, but Alexander Papastassiou's dream was the simple analogue. And he said that country without a mere analogue, it's not a democratic country. And why did I come out of the Maximos Mansion I said that Mr. Tsipras is more mature? Because he said to me, "I too feel the burden of ruling with bonuses and I want a Greece without a bonus." Does the government have 70%? To be 70% for the people too. And now what do we have? A SYRIZA that has reduced its power and we have a majority. That's a matter of conscience. I would not agree to rule as a minority of people and simply as a majority of Parliament. The House must reflect the people! That is respect for the people. I therefore call on the New Democracy instead of saying 'criminals' and foolishness that we will have power and such, to get serious and to look at others in Europe who are not criminals. They may be right, but they're much more wise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u412	Mr Karamanlis has the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, if you all observe each other in time, we may be able to complete it at 21.30 p.m. Here, Mr Karamanlis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u413	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for once we have lived in one of SYRIZA's usual contradictions. Your Government, as it has done in so many other cases - a characteristic case is the regional airports - while it has promised that it will not betray the public character of the port of Piraeus, finally sign the sale of the PPA to 'COSCO'. Dritsa who, as a member of the Piraeus Parliament, was protesting outside the Ministry of Trade Shipping against all forms of concession and privatization of the port, today as a competent minister, signes the port's sale. But let's take things in a row. In 2008, the Government of New Democracy decided to make one of the most important investments, giving the use of the PPA facilities for a period of thirty-five years to ‘COSCO’. Greece then attracted the second largest economy worldwide in the port of Piraeus and the largest shipping company in the world. At the same time, our country was slowly turning into an entry gate for Asian products, a move that - if you like - is now confirmed by international developments with the recent drafting of the Suez Canal. At that time, of course, deserveful opposition, particularly the PASOK, was against this policy. The other parties, however, had the same attitude. SYRIZA, LAOS and the JRC have fought this policy rampantly. It is therefore highly teaching today to see where the choice of anti-racistism and the irrationalism at that time leads. In 2013 and 2014 the then government of Samaras proceeds - if you want - on the next step. It extends the 2008 Convention, essentially doubling the volume of containers that Piraeus can manage and proceed to the tender. And this political choice of the then government finds SYRIZA - an antimony then - rabies against. I am sure that by following the debate both in committee and in plenary, almost all of the political world are unable to understand sufficiently what the positive effects of this privatisation are. This investment has a lot to do to make Greece a global transit centre. The natural position of Piraeus in the sea corridor that unites the Asian markets with Europe, through the Canal, offers enormous potential. But what should be our next steps? Strengthen the Trinity, upgrade the archaic in relation to the rest of Europe, so that the goods reach Central Europe and the final destination. But not only did we modernise the rail network, but the deafening indifference of the SYRIZA led to the case of Idon, which was closed for about ninety days. Many were business then, as we all remember, who found other exits. But what do our neighbouring countries do? We have recently opened the Gotthard railway line in Switzerland, which gradually strengthens the geopolitical role of the port of Genova and Rotterdam. Also under construction is the Brenner Base Tunnel which will significantly reduce the time. In short, the countries of Europe, and Italy in particular, comes to a dynamic threat to our port role in Europe. It is therefore time to draw up a national strategy. Any good or bad privatisation of the port is a small piece in this puzzle. Piraeus, along with Triasios, on a high-speed rail network, can and must be transformed into a hub for Asian products. It is therefore time to listen to the new needs. I hope that the government and all the political parties will understand this great opportunity. So the advantageous position of the port is not enough. If we want to take advantage of the prospects of maritime transport and the provision of logistics services, we need to do the basics. And the main thing, before all else, is to have political agreement and understanding, long-term planning that will not change with any change of minister or government. Only in this case will the vision of 2008 turn Greece into a commercial hub between Asia and a united Europe become a reality. So let us all work together, away from micro-political practices, to make this vision a reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u414	Thank you, too. Mr. Rabbit has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u415	Five minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u416	Yeah, five minutes, because Mr. Michaloyakus has spoken. That is what the Rules of Procedure says when the party leader speaks, time is limited.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u417	Thank you, Madam President. In five minutes we will not be able to say many things, of course, but we will talk about the important things and mention them. So we arrived after a paradox, which began at 12.00 noon today, was interrupted for about two and a half hours and then resumed, in a process where, as we said at the beginning of the morning, the Minister for Maritime Affairs was going to come here, dragging behind the Cosco Chinese. It was something obvious. There was nothing else man could do. We all wonder why he did what he did, what agitation it was that he created and why he did this all because people will sell it. It's in their intentions, it's for granted, it's in their ideology, they want to sell it out. There is no opposition underneath to react to it. The opposition says - and it complains - that we did not have time to sell it. You came and you gave it up, and we said it first. We talked about it from 2008-2009. We wanted to sell out, but unfortunately you did. So this is the opposition that exists in the Greek Parliament. And there's a Golden Dawn that says these things the way they are. It is not possible to sell the property of the Greek state, the Greek state. It doesn't belong to any of us. It belongs to the Greek people. But that seems to have been forgotten in here. Coming as MPs or as ministers, the six, seven, the eight months that you are here - then you leave, because you have not taken one vote after you go to your homes - you think you are kings, you think you are kings of the king and do what you want. You are selling out, you are putting our country under the process for ninety years to be bound, you are putting the next generations incapable of reacting to the signature you have placed. Because it is not only that you sign these unreasonable and vile laws you bring, but you are putting procedures and conditions in which no one else can react later. This is the process, this is the outrageous, this is the tristhal event that has been happening for too many months in the "Greek" Parliament, because only Greek Parliament is not just about the rights of the Greeks. It is a good thing that we have a good deal of time, and that is why we have a good deal of time, and that is why I have tabled And he brought an amendment to serve and save - to say so - the Greek workers in the PPA, because these people will be exposed from the next day. This amendment, which will of course not be accepted by the government - because the government is not interested in helping workers - will not be accepted because it wants to throw them away. And the government leaves a little window, which it says? He says he has the right to call a transfer and go somewhere else. But this will also be the purpose of both the Government and the 'COSCO'. Why 'COSCO' and the government what do they want to do? If there are no reactions from the workers, they will slowly be switched to other sectors, and so the Chinese 'COSCO' will have the right to hire what they want, with whatever contracts they want and what they want. It is what you all signed here a few days ago, and the Golden Dawn reacted, saying that one body can come, make visas to illegal immigrants, bring them here, put them in its own conditions, and you all the humanists are not interested that in a few months' time now workers will come to the port of Piraeus for 400 or 450 euros. You don't care, because you just want to sell as much as you want - as much as this is seen by the price you get for the port of Piraeus. If it is possible for the port of Piraeus to get 311m euros! Who's gonna hear this thing and won't be intimidated? How is it possible for you here to be represented by the ministers and that you are a government that is being cut for the good of the Greeks? You're not interested in any of this, you're only interested in selling. It's the reality, there's nothing else. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS KREMASTINOS, takes over the President's seat.]] We told Mr Dritsa this morning, but also yesterday's committee: 'Don't do these procedures now, you'll be humiliated!' But they don't care. Neither do they, apparently, have anything. They come after two and a half hours, they bring us the bill just as we said, they do that it's no big deal, and they pretend to be proud, and they pretend to be the fighters! They forget what they said four months ago - look, not two years ago, four - five months ago - and now that they came we see how empty they were in what they said. How empty they were! We also see the partnership with the anti-population parties, because everyone agrees that there must be a sale, because everyone considers that the Greek State cannot cope, cannot be profitable for the Greek state. And you know why? Because everyone knows that they are very low capacity and they know that they cannot manage well, so that our Greek public, our Greek ports and our airports can make a profit. That's what this is about. Fear the responsibilities that you are responsible for and you want to sell. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Allow me, Mr President, for two more minutes. I want to bring in an issue that is very important. It's the issue of the Kynosura in Salamis. There it had become the most important battle that has ever taken place in mankind. There the Greek state should have set up monuments and honor these heroes. On the contrary, the bones of these heroes are out of the soil and whoever goes there - because I doubt most of them have gone from here - will see this thing. No one is interested and the "Greek" government is now coming to sell this region. The mayor of Salamis and a municipal councillor of Salamis are coming and what do they say? He says Counsellor Emmanuel Dertuzos: "At Salamis there are areas of the highest cultural value sold. Territories of the disinfection protection of zone A shall be granted.’ "And here," he says, "There is a second illegality. Why? Because PPA never owned these lands. We also told Mr Pitsirla, when we visited him, that these territories do not exist in the 2002 concession agreement. The PPA in a treacherous manner - says man - "detected the procedures and came to the point that land that does not belong to them can be conceived". They do not exist in the 2002 concession. It is not enough, therefore, that this is monuments to the Greek nation, but here has also become an infidelity, an dishonesty against the Greek state. And that government doesn't study it at all, does not sit there and see if it is based on what is said by the municipal councillor. Then the mayor of Salamis, Mrs Isidora Nannos - by the way - may I point out that neither one or the other belong to the Golden Dawn, so that there are no misinterpretations - says: 'In the procedure followed for the signing of the contract to be ratified, it was not submitted to the Court of Auditors to carry out a pre-contractual audit. In accordance with those provisions, in the event that a contract is not submitted for pre-contractual review of legality at the appropriate stage of the Court of Auditors, the contract concluded shall be void.’ And you come here and sign all this! Do you know them? If you know them, you're traitors. If you don't know them, you're useless and incompetent. Do you know them? You're selling the area of Kynosura to the Chinese. Although to tell you the truth, the Chinese, because they have a history of thousands of years, will respect the monuments of the Greek nation better than you. They will respect them better than you who sell them for a lentil! It's a disgrace to you all that you're doing! Can I ask you something else? Tell us about the issue of Salamitina - Paulia - Perama what's going on? Have you given that too? Because that is how we learn, that even this has been given, the biggest ferry that exists. You gave that too! Tell me what trades? What will 'COSCO' give about this thing and how will it be controlled? That's who you are! It's a disgrace to you all that you're doing!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u418	Mr. Emmanoulidis, SYRIZA Member, has the floor for five minutes. Mr Emmanuelides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u419	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the attitude of Demosthenes, when Philip's obsessed opponent every morning waking up on the road, asked him "had been persecuted". It is precisely this unique attitude of counter-population, especially the New Democracy, that has become a bad repetition, which gives nothing to the political reason and a rival and finally proves the strategic deadlock, in which it has come to light. Listening to Mrs Kefaliannis earlier, I was impressed by a revulsion of her. "We are with Greece," he says, "the prestige and dignity". Mrs. Kefaliannis, how is the concept of prestige compatible with the 320 billion debt you charged our country for all the years of your governance? How is the concept of dignity compatible when you condemned one and a half million people to unemployment? I come to an abstraction of Mr Mitsotakis' speech, saying that "you are deprived of the Greek people, of the unemployed Greeks and the unemployed Greeks the possibility of finding work". Who made the unemployed and unemployed one and a half million Greeks unemployed? I believe that when we are articulating political speech, we must be aware of our actions and on the basis of this awareness, at least, of gaining a reasonable basis, otherwise it is dead and beyond the limits of graphicity. I'm coming to the object. The agreement to be ratified is under way in an initial agreement of 2008 when the two docks, II and III, were awarded to ‘COSCO’. I will only try to make an absolute contrast with the terms of the two agreements. An agreement is judged on social terms, on economic terms, on working conditions and finally on the cultural stand, which the agreement itself emits. On the issue of the economy, 3.5 million a year is the rental, I say, of the concession to the Greek State and 3.5% is attributed to the Greek State, when the previous 2008 agreement was only 2 million. We therefore have a doubling of the public benefit, which, of course, is dispersed - and this is of particular interest - into municipalities connected with the port of Piraeus. I'm coming to the social field. The yield of ninety acres to the multitudes of Drapetson, which leaves a way out to the natural outlet, to the sea, I think it is a normalization of arrhythmia, which at last finds her fairness. On the subject of labour, I believe that the opportunity provided by this convention to protect, as far as possible, the occupational safety of workers, precisely shows the different style of writing in relation to the previous agreement. Finally, I would like to mention the case of sensitivity to cultural heritage. So the Kynosuras Peninsula, which was nothing but an area of heavy environmental pollution and heavier cultural rape, finally finds its restoration, despite the bad voices of the previous speaker. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Allow me, Mr President. I'll be done in a minute. This whole agreement was not made with the same economic, political, historical reasons. The 2008 Agreement was a comfortable deal. Ours became under a suffocating pressure. In spite of this loop, the Minister responsible for this agreement has managed to capture all these features I have put forward. Finally - and I am closing with this - let me make a comment. Man's style is a hint of ethos. Observing, not only this critical two-day day but throughout the parliamentary presence, the Minister, Thodoris Dricas, in his style teaches all of us what political spirit must be.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u420	Please, Mr. Emmanuelides, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u421	I say this, to keep it in mind that when we eclipse heavy characterizations, we do nothing but undermine our validity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u422	Thank you. Mr. Andreas Rizzoulis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u423	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I will begin by commenting on the Minister, Mr Dritsa, because yesterday in a very intense style and afflicted by Mr Varvitsiotis, he called on him to resign because he would rise to his appreciation. Unfortunately, Mr Dritsa, you have missed the opportunity to take up Mr Varvitsiotis' appreciation. Of course, if you were to leave, another minister would come, who would say the same. He would say that, yes, we have a difficult agreement, that we have compromised and that we will try to do the best within this agreement. And he would have to resign to obviously go up in the reputation of Mr Varvitsiotis, who was the previous Minister for Maritime Affairs. We now come to the conclusion - Mr Mitsotakis said before - that the government should resign as a whole, not to go up to their appreciation, but to come quickly to understand the positions. To do what? Can't the Chief of Officer County understand - and when he says he thinks he's saying something too clever - that when he says that we have Janus's myth, that we have two faces, what he sees as two faces is the same person. She is the same person who negotiated, as she negotiated, with another logic for society and how we should go forward and finally reconciled with an agreement, as she was reconciled. And the second person, who sees - who is the same person - is that under this agreement we will try to do our best and do it. Watch out for what's going on. The opposition voted for the agreement in the summer and the various conventions that were in existence, and yet blames us for not doing things that are not even provided for in the agreement to be completed quickly. But when they answer that question, why did they sign the agreement and today they say that they voted for the country not to leave the European Union? Apparently they had an early Brexit this summer and they voted for Brexit. There's no excuse for that. In 2008 - the speaker said before - they had the opportunity to conclude a better agreement - the SYRIZA rapporteur said so yesterday. Let them see a little how the agreements and conventions in the European Union are on the issue of ports and coastlines, let them see what they are in England, how they are in the Netherlands, how they are in Denmark, where local government, regions, chambers and others are involved in this management, and then they will understand what the advanced world is doing that they want to take us. To avoid eating much time - we have all said so, the explanatory statement - since September 2015, and then an effort has been made by the Government to renegotiate the contract and we have really been successful in this, such as the transfer of shares, the guarantees of the public, etc. I won't expand. Everyone said that. The logic of Officerial Response is "You leave, because we can make better management". Better management for them means that we sign everything without negotiation, with the well-known results that we had throughout the previous period in the way the memorandums applied, signing any text that came with the consequences that this had on the Greek people. The country will be in a programme by 2018 - we need to understand that - and the issue is by 2018 what that government will be that can defend the public interest. Who's she gonna be? And even the negative effects of the memorandum should be put aside a little and something for the people who have been diagnosed for so many years. This is the SYRIZA - ANEL - Green Eagle Government. This is the government. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall now conclude, Mr President. They obviously haven't seen what they say in two elections in a year and a half is lost. There's been a four-year government. Let appeals and requests for resignations of the government or of Ministers be left. When the election time comes, we will be judged on the results of our governance. You've been judged twice. Let's sit at your corner a bit, let's have a four-year time when we're going to be judged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u424	Thank you, Mr. Risouli. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u425	Thank you, Mr President. We, the JRC, do not blame the Government for the recurring it or for the insolvency it displays on this issue, as other opposition parties do. Why are they doing this? Because criticism is an easy criticism and a disorientative criticism of substance, because through this they are trying to cover up that they are in agreement with the government policy being pursued, that they are in agreement with the privatisation of the Piraeus Port Agency. After all, the New Democracy started this project and the PASOK governments continued it, the New Democracy - PASOK, and today SYRIZA - ANEL coexistence is finalising it. In other words, they agree with the essence of government policy. Nor, of course, will we confront the Government simply by contrarying the price at which the Piraeus Port Agency is privatised or who the buyers are. But it will also be time for the port of Patras, don't worry, Mr. Dritsa. It's time for you to privatize that, too. From this point of view, we are of course not interested in the situation at the port of Piraeus as it is now, namely, in that part which is under public control and which is being seized by specific business and logistics interests, because it is not different. A number of functions and tasks have been allocated to the port under public control of Piraeus to shipowners and other business groups. In this respect, therefore, our opposition is of strategic importance, because we believe that privatisation is not just done to serve the state debt. Privatization is not a mandatory option on the part of the various governments - the former or current - because of what is contained in the various Memorandums or creditors' pressures. If that were the case, if, in other words, privatisation was due to creditors' pressures and government debt service, then, for example, the privatisation of the Piraeus port in 2007 against the government of Karamanlis would not have become the biggest privatisations in the late 1990s and early 2000s. When was OTE privatized? When did PPC start privatising? At times of high growth. In this respect, then, we say that privatisation is a strategic option. They deal directly with the choices of the main, central, and European Union's own, for the liberalisation of markets under the Maastricht Treaty after overthrowing the socialist system in order to enable the overcrowded funds to find new sectors of progress, to securely be able to place themselves, to shield their competitiveness and profitability. So they are a strategic option for the whole of the European Union and the Greek governments to privatise in order to provide exactly a way out of overcompensated funds and to shield competitiveness and profitability. How do we shield her? Doing what the urban state always does, not only in Greece but in the rest of the capitalist world, does, that is, buys, very expensive, from individuals to ensure profitability and sells, very cheaply, to private business groups. That's not even what SYRIZA's government's originality is about. The fact that these reforms are necessary in the context of the liberalisation of the market for the capitalist recovery, condensates it very much in the recent report that the Governor of the Bank of Greece has published on monetary policy. What does Mr Stournaras say? It says that the implementation of the required reforms, the exploitation of public property and the rapid promotion of privatisation, not only helps to adjust budgets and destabilise state debt but are the most powerful means to promote investment activity and to develop sustainable growth. That is why privatization is progressing. The privatisations are, of course, linked to the implementation of the strategic planning, the strategic objective, which the domestic urban order has for Greece. What does Greece want to do? He wants Greece to be converted into a node, a node energy, a transport node. Isn't that the strategic objective of the bourgeoisie in our country? Sure. It is therefore no coincidence that the privatisations relating to energy and transport in both enterprises operating in these sectors and infrastructures are given priority in the privatisation programme. So we have the privatisation of PPC, IPTO, DESFA, the privatisation of ports, airports, the privatisation of roads. In this context, it is no coincidence that the lion's share of public concession contracts, funding from European programmes and development laws, together with the tourism sector, moves towards energy and transport. This is exactly where the SYRIZA - ANEL Government's policy is going. That is why it is no coincidence that you consider privatisation, along with the reforms and liberalisation of the markets that are directly related and tied up as nails - meat as one of the key links of the road map for development that you want to see in the country. The other two are the success of the first assessment of the memorandum completed and the recapitalisation of the financial system. And you prove to be important players in this direction, implementing this reactionary policy. On substance, if we look at the whole package ahead, we say that privatisation is related to the strategic needs of capital. It is no accident that they built this new superstate, which, for ninety-nine years, binds public property and any businesses under public control to serve not only the state debt, as 50% will go for this purpose, but the other 50% will support the investment projects of the monopolistic groups. This is the first option. Secondly, the impact of privatization, as history has shown in our country as a result of the previous privatisations, will have a very serious impact at the expense of the people's family itself, because it will make it more difficult for the people's family to be able to enjoy their services and goods. So they make it much more difficult for the people's family to access services and goods. The position of workers in these sectors and particularly in the port of Piraeus, which have already deteriorated with the overturns in the work relationship, will also deteriorate rapidly. But now they will have even faster worsening, because just after every privatisation they have gone through overturns in industrial relations, redundancies and intensification of work. From this point of view, it is clear that for all these reasons we are opposed. At the same time, because developments are dense and rapid, it is important here to highlight the reactionary nature of the system defended by the government and the opposition. And why are we talking about a reactionary character of the system? The bankruptcys, with the last of MARINOPOULOS S.A., have now increased this chain of twelve thousand workers. It could be fraud, maybe it isn't. However, the sure thing is that the major shareholders of this company, like the other companies that are bankrupt, are not going to stay in the search. They have been guaranteed in many ways, with offshore, with tax havens and real estate abroad. Those who find themselves in a painful position are the workers who owe them their jobs and lose their jobs. So what do you stand for? A system that gives every capitalist right to hire and dismiss, go bankrupt and invest whenever he wants, just to protect his capitalist profit. And that right you're giving it to them. You have even reached the point of changing the bankruptcy code to make bankruptcy procedures much faster and easier. About the huge sea loans received by the big business groups, financial prosecutors speak of three hundred large business groups, which investigate and have taken over sea loans. And it's not just the media, it's too many other respectable people of the bourgeoisie class. Thirdly, you are giving huge scandalous incentives and tax exemptions to shipowners. With the development law you finance them with new packages. They are, therefore, responsible for the deterioration of the position of the working class, of the people's family, of poverty, of impoverishment and of unemployment. And that is why, as long as this is not revealed, the parties, who play and serve their interests, consider them reactive. So here's how we respond to Mr. Leventis's challenge and why we call him a reactionary. Because it is the most reactionary and scandalous concept, that is, that for the problems, for poverty, for impoverishment and for unemployment, it is the pensions that are not the fault of the capitalists. That's why. And that's why he's an actor of darkness. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So we say that today the people with these conditions - and I conclude with this, Mr President, and thank you very much - have all the accumulated experience and are aware that within the 'Skla and Harybdis' of the capitalist system, within Greece's participation in the European Union and the other imperialist organisations will not see a white day. On the contrary, he will see his position deteriorated and deteriorated either relatively or completely. It will see the enormous needs it has not been able to meet, and there are the productive potential to meet people's needs. That is why we say that the people must not have any illusions and that they must today organize their struggle for more overall breaches and overthrows. In this context, it must also stand the struggle against privatisation and not stay in obsolete slogans, remain the port under public control, and let shipowners pierce it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u426	Thank you. Mr. Gregorakos, Independent MEP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u427	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I come from a debate on the constitution and democracy entitled 'No player'. Minister, toys! I was disappointed today because I knew that you had your objections to the port, to the PPA, to 'COSCO'. I have waited for a more sensible attitude, not what happened today, 'look, it is corrected - it is not corrected, letters from 'COSCO' and all that. You are a "man" as Stavrides told Papamichael, "but what a mommy you are!" - You remember - in the paper comedy, French or Swedish. Great'manullis'! We have to admit that. That is why you will get out and you will probably also know how 'no' can do it 'yes'. There is an attempt to do this these days and in Europe's interests you must export this know-how how you make 'no' 'yes'. But, Minister, you disagree. You've said it. I have been listening to you for five years to disagree with that. And I truly appreciate you. When the Minister disagrees, he goes home. Just stuff! You're forcing me to blame you for an ether. You disagree. And because you disagree and it's not in your cell what you're doing, you don't believe it. That is why what happened today with the letters, corrections, corrections. There would have been nothing, because in privatization the majority of the parties in this House would have agreed. Simplely, you are - so, to say in introductorys - "more successful" in the application of the hard memorandum and you want to pass it all without being untapped. But unfortunately, you lost the game and the nose was solved today. The whole world blames you. But I couldn't help talking about something that happened yesterday in my village. My village is a very small village in Laconia. There are thirty with forty inhabitants in the winter. In the summer, get me some Americans to have a hundred. The ILO showed up and closed two cafes, who had two pensioners of eighty, eighty-five years. It's closed. He sealed it. I am ashamed of that, and I know that my colleagues here on all sides are ashamed of it, because we know that at the same time tax evasion is high where no one dares to go from the ILO. So he went to a small village. So it is time for all of us to put things down and find the golden incision, how to maintain this dying country, bleeding. And there are some cafés who have those who live there, to gather, to see each other, to see the doctor, or - I know - to go to the manaves or to get the fisherman to feed them to the barren villages of Greece. So we need to find the gold incision and find the solution. The IMO does not close the cafes where the coffee makes 0.50 euros. Come on, Minister, let's buy you a treat in my village! We must take a position, ladies and gentlemen. I listened to the president of the tax office yesterday on a radio and said at some point and I was embarrassed - especially today with what happened in my village - that Mykonos does not have tax.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u428	Who abolished it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u429	Who abolished it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u430	Why don't you fix it? Mr Colleague, Mr Emmanoulidis told me that there are one and a half million unemployed. What have you guys done? Did you even reduce them by one? What are you talking about? He spoke earlier about 300 billion debts. In a year of 100 billion! I didn't want to get into this process. So don't talk. A year and a half, what did you do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u431	Our dreams.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u432	Your dreams! You cheated on her. Your dreams! That's it. That's what you did. Previously, we had Mr Leventis here, who was a great supporter of mere analogy! Jesus, don't you see that with the strengthened analogue government there is no? Is there a government? Where are you? Can you go to your villages? Go on! [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Yeah, go, go! You'll have a good time! Baby, you're going. In the summer you'll have a good time!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u433	Aren't you ashamed? What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u434	Who said that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u435	I said it! You hear there "we can't go to our villages"!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u436	I'm not embarrassed at all. I really am not ashamed to want the country, and I do not want the personal, self-interest of any Member and any party. This country, Mr Colleague, some people have paid for it very much and for this country it has reached 45% to 4%. They arrived at 4%. Don't be afraid.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u437	Some people have stolen it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u438	Please don't interrupt and we won't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u439	It's a disgrace to what you're doing for the Left! I saw Mr Leventis a great supporter of mere analogy. Ladies and gentlemen, sovereignty is playing dangerous games. Some people went to do it in '89. Some people went to do it in 2000. They went in 2004 to change electoral laws and fell in. They all fell in. You know them both Koutsogiger and Scandalidis and Paulopoulos. When they went to change the electoral law, they fell in. Election law is the result of the environment and social conditions, which prevail at this political moment. There was the simple analogue as electoral law and used to be with Papanastasios. Someone said it before. There was a simple analogue. But at the moment Greece doesn't need them. Greece needs unanimity right now. The country must be governed. We must all put our backs on them, because you too have loaded the third, the unrelenting memorandum, and since you have done so, we have no objection. But don't keep telling us! Don't tell us because we know where you were before you went to SYRIZA. So let it not pay 4% and 5%.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u440	Where were we?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u441	Are you asking me where you were?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u442	Yeah, me!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u443	You were at PASOK! Let go of it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u444	I got up and left in 1993!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u445	So we know where you were. Don't move my hand! We're not moving your hand to anyone!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u446	You said the Minister would resign. You're the one who erased your party and instead of handing over the seat, you're sitting there talking to us!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u447	Mr. Panjah, please. Mr. Gregoraco, you're finishing up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u448	We say that Greece needs unity. Greece currently needs as much as it ever needs to come out of the crisis, which has been plagued for six years. Greece must decide at some point a national exit plan from the crisis. That and nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u449	Thank you. Mr Papachristopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u450	Ladies and gentlemen, I am one of those who will continue to make an effort in this Chamber, in which I think the heart of democracy is at stake. We need to bring the tons down as long as we can. Of course, this is not always done and I don't exclude myself. Do not create a climate of polarization for no reason. I want to remind you that three investment options have recently been made. One was the pipeline, the second was the Greek and the third was the 'COSCO'. Have previous governments been involved? Yes, they do. Indeed, when it was an official opposition, the current government had reacted? Yes, he did. But when will we continue to make mistakes netting? "Then you did this, what are you saying to me today?" It reminds me - yes or no - small children not even of high school but of primary school, which they say "you did to me, I will do to you". I think this must end once and for all, to end this story. He's not offering anymore. I would just like to remind you of some things because I hear excesses, which I think are meaningless and I do not exclude any of the parties. It's not just today's Opposition. Unfortunately, many of our people call it. Do we want transparency or not transparency and dignity? Do we want to stop the party rule? I think we all want it inside. Do we have the chance to do it from one day to the next? Realistic, no. Are we now obliged to borrow from people who do not like us, who have experienced very bad experiences, but are our only lenders? Did the evaluation have to end? Did the debt have to go to the table? I'm not saying what was going on. We need to see who has offered in this direction and who has really seen the future of the country and not the personal future or the future of his party. I want to think there's some left behind. I didn't say we loved each other in this Chamber. There are things that separate us. For example, some believe much in the social state, some less. Some people believe in the markets. They're differences that exist and they're respectful. But to pass them on from arguments, not with designations. What's the point of me saying that this is a political persecutor, a political fraudster, he's dangerous, he's a liar? Say your arguments and prove that. It's a personal complaint of mine. This Chamber of the Greek Parliament is not the cafeteria, which my friend Mr Gregorakos said before, which you can say a word more. It is the Greek Parliament, from which we must all remember that giants have passed. These same seats were sitting. I still feel awe, I feel very new, I honestly tell you. I would like to raise two points, because I believe that the heart of this House, the plenary, is topical and we cannot ignore it. Firstly, five to six months ago we saw ELECTRONIC leaving the tableau. Running story. We have seen the LEDRA MARRIOTT, almost filled with empties of workers. We also see the last example of "MAINOPOULO S.A.", a giant multinational, "empty" of thirteen thousand workers. This story, where business is being enclosed, but never the businessman goes bankrupt, who has made sure that he has his money on offshore, that he has thrown it away, he has to end it definitively and irrevocably. I will agree with the representative of the JRC. Here and now legislation is being made. You are told by a man who is a European, who is in favour of the free economy, but by rules, not the economy of public suppliers. But I want to say something else and I'll be a little tough. Yesterday many retired people felt a freeze when they went to get their pensions. I would like to refer to a particular category of retired persons, which is around a hundred thousand people. Listen to me, be careful. These are the ones who have been deprived of the CSR and their pension was from EUR 660 to EUR 800. Some of them were deprived of around 230 euros. For a person who gets 660 euros, it's a huge amount. I have sat down and calculated, therefore, that 200 euros per 100 thousand are 20 million euros per month. I have read very carefully and respectfully the explanations for the Ministry of Labour's CSR. They're convincing, except they're going to be 1-1-2017. It's halfway through a semester. Totally it's about 120 million euros. I heard Mr Alexiadis say that we got off the Lagard list of 167 million euros. Who prevents us - I say an example, may be wrong - this money now being given to these people for the five months? We didn't all come here to get rich. Many of you, I know, were busy. You had the opportunity to make money. You're here to serve the good of the community as a whole. I'm talking to everyone. So, together with those low-pensionists who were crying yesterday and crying today, we have the possibility of finding a solution. Invitation to the Government's staff to make up - yesterday! - these EUR 120 million for the five-month period until the adjustment is made! And I think it's gonna happen! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I want, ending up - I won't eat all the time - to say that with Theodore Dritsa, I've been united by a few memories, when we waited for days in Larnaca to break the embargo at some point with Aaron. Excuse me this personal report. We are not all the same in this Chamber and we need respect for some. We might disagree with them. That's another thing not to respect. I was with Thodoris Dritsa and we rewarded eight - nine years later when I entered the House. I never saw him before. We were sailing those nights to break the ban at the time with Aaron when the Israeli navy corvettes ran around us. I'm closing my parentheses to say this. I do not think it was a big deal of the matter that happened yesterday. It was up - I think - in a way that was not allowed. Do you have any objections? Do it. Say your objections. [[Noise in the Chamber]] If you're kind, listen to me. I don't eat time, not even the ten minutes I'm entitled to. And a man speaks to you, who is obviously in favour of privatising the port. I'm not talking about it. I believe that transport and tourism are the engine of growth now, and for those who may not have properly appreciated it. First of all, I also give credit to the governments that started it. I have no hesitation. Cobblex, I don't have one. I think that Thodoris Dritsas - this is my assessment and throw it away, if you like - did what a Minister would do until the last minute to improve some things for the workers, the people he knows and sees daily in the port and with whom he has grown up with. And I want to believe that he did nothing more than improve these conditions until the last minute. Some of you have a different opinion. Hold it. I do not want to say any more, which is why I am closing down with this: for our country, despite the fact that the citizens are at the moment having difficulty and the market is bounced - I know that much better than many in here - the global impact has changed. He's positive. Anyone who looks at the statements made by Gabriel and another 50 people, who I could report to you, whoever sees the statements made by Rencie and Olad, how they deal with the Greek Government, will understand that something has changed. It's about time in this room some people figure it out! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u451	Minister Dritsas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u452	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Thanassis Papachristopoulos, as I thank other colleagues who have said a good reason for this. But I really feel awkward when there's a personal report. I would just like to say, Mr Gregorako, that your criticism is acceptable, but I replied yesterday to the committee and today, in my position. If I have to reply again, I will do so, because in fact, when one defends something and then in another place, we have a responsibility to explain this not only to Parliament, but to the Greek people. I've tried to explain that many times. What you must be sure of is that my attitude and all the members of the government, the Members of the SYRIZA, cannot be interpreted by the tool of adaptation and coughing. Of course, everyone can use any interpretative tool to approach choices and behaviors. However, I believe that we are going through periods of shocking contradictions and contradictions and it is better to remain faithful to various things, at least to remain faithful to the fact that it is worthwhile to continue fighting, even when conditions are inconvenient, even when reality is not what we choose or what we would like to do. There really are too many issues going on. I am convinced that we can see - and I am not personally speaking here - in the political path of political parties, political tendencies, political ideologies in our country, and internationally what behaviours of compromise were based on the need for continuity or the expectation of continuity and what the incorporation, in directions which, in any event, are more what some people implied or implied - in order not to charge it to you - as a war with gluttons with the ministerial chair or anything else. These things have happened many times in the history of mankind and are happening now in our country with shocking terms and, indeed, this is a test and we must be absolutely honest. Yes, Mr Gregorakos, we are intervening with ourselves every day, because precisely the vision of 2015, which we claimed with the Greek people to move forward, could not prevail and retreated. In an honest way before the Greek people, we have asked this retreat if it will give us the mandate and the right to continue in this context - no, I say again, once again, once again, on a white cheque - to continue to fight in the direction of expectations. So there, you're not answering me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u453	You're making this a matter. That's personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u454	Please don't interrupt! Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u455	There, therefore, on this route, on every responsibility of the Ministry or on every theme that arises, each one of us gives this battle, we give it to all together as a government. And exactly what we do every time and if we do something. It is precisely in this balance sheet and balance sheet that we will be judged by the Greek people on this route and on that path. In any case, precisely because, in the matter of privatising the port of Piraeus, in a predetermined field and context, mature now, very suffocating, almost agreed on most of its points, we had to give the battle to be won as much as possible in the direction of social dividends and public interest, in the direction of creating much better conditions so that a binding concession of the majority of the shares of the Piraeus Port Authority and the management right to have rules that allow them to increase as much as possible. I have made this effort myself and the government and before you today is the final form of the concession agreement and of the legislative law. You can judge differences. You can evaluate where the government started and where it came from, not in sufficient time, but in sufficient time, and at a suffocating time and under the torso, that any issue raised by the government, from the largest to the least, to the least, to extend the rules of this agreement to the benefit of the whole and of the public interest, was faced with the threatening direction, which gave many centres of power, both internally and internationally, coordinatedly and at the same time, imprinting the daily press, electronic or form, with a mechanism that works automatically now, in the case of, for example, the Liappa coastline or not to charge the Greek State the costs of the Port Security Code, the ISPS Code, but to be charged with the concessionaire, or much more. The immediate threat that occurred day after day and not once in day, but every day, reproducing and supported, as I said, by mass media, was that the competition will be cancelled, no competition will be held, investors will leave, no one will come, no one will leave. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] In these circumstances, therefore, the government has made it systematically and daily, not on our own, but on our own, not as Don Quixotes, but by consultation. The Ministry has come, very often, not only the self-government, not only the employees' representatives, but also the users of the port, businesses, small and medium-sized, the Shipbuilding Zone of Perama, as well as large businesses of the port, the coastline or all kinds of port users. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Because everyone, even today, wants in the new conditions to look for how the port works. The same rules? With others? Who will they be? This is not just a personal interest or an entrepreneurial interest in a sector, but it is the quintany of the production function of this extremely important production machine, such as the port of Piraeus, because it depends on its productivity. It also depends on the social dividend, whether all those involved with the port will be able to have a place, have a role, and not just the concessionaire who can impose it. There we also had significant successes, which were not recorded in what changed in the text of the concession. However, things have been achieved very importantly. At the moment, the small and medium-sized businessmen of the Shipbuilding Zone have taken all the assurances that the way they operate in this production activity will remain the same, with the same rights. Old debts and old outstandings of these branches in this process, through a systematic effort, have been settled. Different stories in every direction have been able to become a reality. Thus, the stronger distribution of the largest and most important part of the annual return, which will be collected by the public, has emerged in the municipalities. Thus the proportional distribution system was built, with various criteria, in Piraeus, Perama, Salamis. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing again and again.]] All this was an attempt to respect the commitment made last summer to proceed with the commitment, because that was compulsory, and to do so in the best possible way. There, then, are issues raised, who chooses what and how things are chosen. I do not remember in such privatizations real interest in the past, so that privatisation has added value to the country's overall production activity. Because, ladies and gentlemen, it can easily be said that an investment creates jobs and counts them - two thousand, three thousand, five thousand, ten thousand - but it must count and how many are lost. If you open up a large mall in an area and employ a thousand people and, at the same time, close five hundred shops, small and medium sized, should this not be taken into account in a design of a government and a state? Is it only something that is solved by 'I am in favour of privatisation', why do investment need to come'? It is right that some of the Vice-Presidents said that there are good and bad privatization, that there are choices, that other branches should not be privatised and others can discuss their privatisation. Where is this debate going seriously? Where's it going? This government - and I now have experienced confidence and confidence, not for myself, but for the government - has, as far as possible, dealt with such criteria and with such keys. Do you disagree? Is it wrong? He should not do it, because in the morning he would go out - and go out - a newspaper or a channel and he would say: 'Drizza undermines privatization, wants to re-ruralize the port'? And why all this? Why these pressures? To stop Dritsa, to stop the government, so that every minister can stop trying to shape this frame that I described before. This, as a criticism, is what we know from this side of the House how it is devastated, how it is encouraged. And that's where the differences arise, the different policies come up, and that's where the different correlations arise. From this point of view, and with regard to what happened yesterday in the Committee on Production and Trade, in the famous letter, which arrived late in the evening, and today it has taken all this dimension, it is remarkable, ladies and gentlemen, and I think it is important that at least one political leader - Mr Leventis - from the parties in this House - was found to be at least one measure, and interpretative and sized for this story, which Parliament and the public life have dealt with and created all this social unrest. Indeed, this measure was not seen while it should have been, because there was the data to see it in many respects. We have also seen a constraint from some other aspects. But look at that. You don't have to look too hard to understand. This is an exaggerated legal zeal, which I no longer know what motives it has. However, it is obvious that this is an exaggerated legal zeal. To cover the company from some risks? Excessive protection of the company? I don't know. However, it is self-proof, ladies and gentlemen, that it is an exaggerated legal zeal, because these provisions are contained in the concession agreement and they have not been rejected. Were there to be added to Community law to highlight something more? I don't know why. However, their presentation did not alter the fact that the provisions of this type were already in the concession agreement. That is why it is very preposterous and skinny that the government, with the end of the sitting, which we have all decided, and with the consultation to prove good faith and to overcome all concerns, 'has made it a garrison'. That's what a New Democracy MP said. "He's done it a garrison"! What's he done with a carrot? The fact that what was self-evidently institutionalised came...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u456	What's up, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u457	To understand, take one - one of the clues, please...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u458	Minister, since time is over, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u459	I shall finish, Mr President. Take one - one of the elements, to see that it's actually just a legal exaggeration, a legal schooling. And right here, so that I do not get far, short psalm "Alkaluia": In a short time the roll-call vote will be held, the meeting will be over and the Greek Prime Minister will be leaving for China tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u460	Have a good trip!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u461	In any case, the content, the agenda, the prospects, the possibilities, the level of strategic direction in their cooperation will be reflected - and you will be sure and sure - in the best way possible on the Prime Minister's journey to China tomorrow. You laugh ironically, Mrs Bakoyannis, but the country's credibility is best served by this government and you will see it. And you'll see!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u462	Uh, no, not even do credibility lessons for us!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u463	And you'll see it, because just because our designs are daily perspective designs and not consumption designs. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] I'm done with the work. I really think it is worth wondering whether the Democratic Integration, the PASOK, should come and table a proposal for a roll-call vote on Article 10A. I shall vote against it, ladies and gentlemen, and by roll-call vote. It is an article that reflects the long-term effort of the workers and the government to guarantee labour rights. I'm against it. I'm against it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u464	Put on what he proposed... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u465	And I'm indifferent to this choice of yours. Please tell me that the wording is not exactly as it would have covered it in the best way. It is a product of a process like the one I described in all matters.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u466	Add what he told you... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u467	Finish it up. No interactive conversation, please. Please, Mr. Constantinople.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u468	It is a product of this process, ladies and gentlemen, and it is a conquest. And before that, term 5.11 has been preceded in the concession agreement, which also did not exist, and through this effort it was conquered and guaranteed and pave the way for the Rules of Procedure to apply. These, however, are fine letters and convenience with which you are supposed to create impressions instead of putting back so that employment relations in the port and in the new period are safe and stable. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I'm done. Let me just say a word to Mr. Karathanasopoulos. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please. Because by mistake, the port of Patras was mentioned, when you were speaking, to tell you that there is no plan for selling the port of Patras. However, there is a plan for the return of the coastal front, as promised by the Greek Prime Minister, and it is something that is now in direct progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u469	Thank you. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter page 451a]] The debate on the principle, articles and amendment of the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy is hereby terminated: "In order to ratify it from 24 June 2016, amendments and codification in a single text of 13 February 2002, the Concession Convention between the Greek Government and the Piraeus Port Authority and other provisions". Ladies and gentlemen, a request has been made for a roll-call vote by members of the People's League - Golden Dawn in principle and on Articles 5, 9, 10A and 12, the text of which is as follows.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u470	I will also read out the list of signatories for the roll-call vote to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Michaeliakos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Aivatidis John. Here you go. Mrs. Vlachos Salvation. Here. Mr. Germenis George. Here you go. Mr. Gregos Antonios. Here you go. Mrs. Zaroulia Helen. Here. Mr. Ilioopoulos Panagiotis. Here you go. Mr. Caracos Evangelos. Here you go. Mr. Cassidy Elias. Here you go. Mr. Kouzilos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. John Rabbit. Here you go. Mr. Michos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Barbarousis Constantine. Here you go. Mr. Panayotaros Elias. Here you go. Mr. Poppa Christos. Here you go. Mr. Shahinides John. Here you go. Mr. Hajisavasavas Christos. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. A request has also been made for a roll-call vote by Members of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR on Article 10A, the text of which is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u471	I will also read out the list of signatories for the roll-call vote to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mrs. Genuine Lights. Here. Mr. Arvanitides Georgios. Here you go. Mr. Venizelos Evangelos. Here you go. Mr. Theocharopoulos Athanasios. Here you go. Mrs. Kefalidou Harula. Here. Mr. Koutsoukos John. Here you go. Mr. Kremastinos Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Constantinople Odysseus. Here you go. Mr. Constantopoulos Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Loverdos Andreas. Here you go. Mr. Maniotis John. Here you go. Mr. Papatheodoros Theodore. Here you go. Mr. Scandalidis Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Jelephus Michael. Here you go. Mrs. Christophilopoulou Friday. Here. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. Do you accept to compress the roll-call votes in one?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u472	We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u473	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter pages 455-470]] There will be a roll-call vote on the principle and on Articles 5, 9, 10A and 12 of the Bill of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy. Receiving the principle and articles of the bill say ‘HA’. Not accepting the principle and articles of the bill say 'OH'. The voters say 'PARON'. Mrs Panagiota Dritsel is on the list by SYRIZA and Mr Vassilis Yoyakas from New Democracy. I would also like to inform you that fax (fax) colleagues have come to the Bureau, in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, in which they state their vote on the principle and on the articles of the bill. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u474	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters, which were sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70a of the Rules of Procedure, are recorded in the Minutes and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u475	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that my fellow Members, and Mr von der Vring, have taken part in this debate. Efi Georgopoulos - Saltari, Ioannis Michelogannakis, Vassilis Kegeroglou, Evangelos - Vasilis Meimarakis, Fotini Arabatzis, George Georgadas, Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, Athanasios Kavadas, Theodoros Karaoglou, George Kasapides, Emmanuel Konsolas, Panagiotis Mitatakis, Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos, Konstantinos Hatzidakis and Vassilias Kikilias will not attend today's roll-call vote and let us know if they were present and present. These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not taken into account in the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u476	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and to get the result. [[COMMUNICATION]] Until the count is completed, we proceed to vote on the rest of the articles. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u477	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u478	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u479	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u480	Acceptable, accepted
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u481	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u482	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u483	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u484	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u485	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u486	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u487	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u488	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u489	Acceptable, accepted
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u490	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u491	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u492	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u493	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u494	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u495	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u496	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u497	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u498	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u499	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u500	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u501	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u502	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u503	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u504	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u505	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u506	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u507	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u508	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u509	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u510	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u511	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u512	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 5 has been put into roll-call vote. Will Rule 6 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u513	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u514	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u515	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u516	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u517	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u518	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u519	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u520	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u521	Article 6 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u522	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u523	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u524	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u525	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u526	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u527	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u528	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u529	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u530	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u531	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u532	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u533	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u534	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u535	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u536	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u537	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u538	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u539	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 9 has been put into roll-call vote. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u540	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u541	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u542	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u543	By a majority. I would like to explain our vote. The PPA is not subject to L.4223/2013 and at the same time there is no criterion for new jobs as a compensatory benefit.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u544	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u545	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u546	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u547	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u548	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 10A has been put into roll-call vote. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u549	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u550	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u551	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u552	In 10A, the Minister did not accept the worker's suggestion in order to ensure their working rights fully. In Article 11, because, as we have said, it does not really help and mock the workers, we will vote 'Socials'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u553	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u554	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u555	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u556	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u557	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 12 has been put into roll-call vote. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u558	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u559	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u560	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u561	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u562	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u563	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u564	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u565	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u566	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 14 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u567	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u568	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u569	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u570	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u571	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u572	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u573	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u574	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u575	Article 14 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 15 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u576	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u577	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u578	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u579	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u580	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u581	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u582	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u583	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u584	Article 15 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u585	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u586	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u587	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u588	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u589	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u590	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u591	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u592	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u593	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u594	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u595	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u596	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u597	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u598	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u599	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u600	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u601	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u602	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u603	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u604	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u605	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u606	Here you go. We want to justify our vote and to record it. We vote for 'Fails' because there was no competition after the first extension and the transfer of competence to the Ministry from 24-11-2015 and why we do not understand why the Ministry's budget should be borne when there are funds from the European Union for the movements of refugees that could be raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u607	As you know, in the vote, we do not, of course, justify voting, but we can hear what you are saying. We're going on with the rest of the parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u608	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u609	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u610	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u611	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u612	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u613	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u614	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u615	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u616	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u617	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u618	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u619	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u620	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u621	Article 19 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u622	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the vote. A total of 248 Members voted. The principle of the draft law: In favour of the principle of the draft law, i.e. 'NAH', 223 Members voted. Against the start of the bill, i.e. 'OH', 25 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: ‘To ratify it, from 24 June 2016, amendment and codification in a single text of its 13 February 2002 Concession Convention between Greek State and Piraeus Port Authority SA and other provisions’ was accepted in the first place by a majority. Article 5 of the draft law: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 222 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 26 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 5 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 9 of the draft law: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 222 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 26 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 9 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Under Article 10a of the draft law: In favour of the article, namely 'NAI', they voted 209 Members. Against the article, i.e. 'Notice', 39 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 10A was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 12 of the draft law: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 223 Members voted. Against this article, 25 Members voted against. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 12 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u623	We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u624	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u625	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u626	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u627	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u628	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u629	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u630	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u631	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u632	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: “In order to ratify it from 24 June 2016, amendments and codification in a single text of its 13 February 2002 Concession Convention between Greek State and Piraeus Port Authority SA and other provisions” was accepted in principle and on articles. Do you accept here that we shall vote on the bill as well as on the whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u633	Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u634	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u635	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u636	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u637	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u638	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u639	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u640	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u641	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u642	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: ‘In order to ratify it of 24 June 2016, amendments and codification in a single text of its 13 February 2002 Concession Convention between Greek State and Piraeus Port Authority SA and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u643	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u644	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-30-S1-commons.u645	With the consent of the House at 23.17 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, July 1, 2016 at 10 a.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: a) a debate on topical questions; b) a debate on the number 27/21/26-5-2016 question by Members of the Communist Party of Greece on the painful consequences of government policy on health.
