ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 30-6-2016, the Minutes of the PRAD Bureau were confirmed on Thursday 30 June 2016 with regard to the vote on all the bills:]] 1. ‘For the ratification by 24 June 2016 of the amendment and codification in a single text of 13 February 2002 of the Concession Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the Piraeus Port Authority SA and other provisions’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Articles 19, 20, 29, 30, 33, 35, 40 to 46 of Directive 2013/34/EU relating to ‘the annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements and related business reports of certain types, amending Directive 2006/43/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Directives 78/660/EEC and 83/349/EEC’ (OJ L 374, 31.12.2013, p. L 189 of 29 June 2013) and Directive 2014/95/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council (EU. L 330/1 of 15 November 2014) ‘amending Directive 2013/34/EU as regards the disclosure of non-financial information and information on diversity by certain large enterprises and groups’ and other provisions of the responsibility of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism’. I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent question issue of Monday, 4 July 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by the Member of Parliament by number 1056/28-6-2016 of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Maria Triantafyllou to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism concerning the completion of the work of the Marina Mesology. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question of the relocation of refugees and migrants within the urban fabric of the Municipality of Kavala to the Asmakopoulou camp under number 1051-27-2016. 3. The question asked by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the performance of the end of wind parks in mountain villages of Argolida and all of Greece. 4. The question asked by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the safeguarding of the working and insurance rights of employees of the hotel "Athens Ledra". 5. The question of the disappearance of two containers with seized cigarettes from the Port Authority of Thessaloniki (OLTH) under number 1057/28-6-2016. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 1052/21-6-2016 The question by MP I Piraeus of the New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy about the operation of pilots on the island of Hydra. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 1060/28-6-2016 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr. Ioannis Delis, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, about dealing with the problems of workers at a fertiliser plant in Kavala. 3. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food about the problems of the primary production of Crete from drought and high temperatures. 4. The F' Vice-President and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Cremastinos to the Minister of Health regarding the collapse of public health. 5. The current question by MP Chios of the New Democracy Mr Panagiotis (South) Mitaraki to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism concerning the protection of feta in European Union trade agreements. 6. The current question by MP Heraklion of New Democracy, Eleftherios Aygenakis to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism concerning the deterioration of the manufacturing sector in our country. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question asked by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn by Elias Panagiotarou to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction about the "stability of Greek citizens from a well-known para-state anti-semitism website". 8. The question asked by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance about the progress of the projects for the development of the former airport of Greece. 9. The 993/14-2016 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health regarding the free provision of medical care to economically weak and insecure citizens. 10. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARK KEGEROGOU to the Minister for Rural Development and Food about the loss of subsidies for young farmers and tenants of rural land.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We shall start with what is going to happen and then I shall refer to what is not done. The third question will be discussed under number 1063/28-6-2016 of the Independent Members of the Achaias Parliament, Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of State, concerning participants in the competition for television licences. Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u4	Good morning, Mr President, and good month to everyone. Coming today from Patras, as always, by making my favourite route with the CBEL and from there by the subway, the citizens, Mr Minister, in the misery and misfortune experienced in recent memorial years - and I have seen it today - have a strong concern that the government may be in all this great noise and after the struggle for the frontal that you, as well as the Prime Minister, made against the interlocutory and all these "pimps", said Kostas Karamanlis, will probably bring us back from the back door. In fact, I would like to tell you that what you are asking today is that you should not let the various Alfouzos, the Constantinoples, the Psigmies, the Bombolians, who took the sea loans again, pick up the stolen ones and hide them abroad. All of this is no longer a complaint, made or made here in Parliament and by me and others, years from the time of Kostas Karamanlis. The MEGA scandal is very recent to do that we do not remember it, or the MEGA shareholders' scandal in the cartel. Mr President, twenty-seven years the Competition Committee says that they were stealing the public. And they have the right to take part, don't they? It will be a very good thing for Mr Psykhari, who today all the headlines say that all his accounts and lockers were committed. As for the rest, I hear that we are doing the same for Mr Alfouzo these days. Instead of paying the hundreds of millions owed by the MEGA to clean up with the crumbs of the licence and thus with 5-6 million will be released as the MEGA, for example, by maintaining the same logo. The Greek taxpayers therefore ask that you do not allow the thieves and fraudsters to become again again in Greece, legalising them by granting new permits and, indeed, by giving them a certificate of chasteness and virginity. So they ask that we not see any canals of every kind of Marinopoulos - you have seen them today - of Article 99, which saved Greek society with billions and left workers on the streets and suppliers and all the banking system. They therefore ask you to take measures, in order to identify natural persons, who appear as foreign companies, to see whether those who appear in the tender as legal representatives of foreign legal persons are strawmen, front-handed, self-books of the interlocutors. They ask, apart from tax and insurance information, which we have sought in the committee of inquiry - it is another story and I have no time - there should also be provision for bank information, not just with bank documents, by signing the willing Frankiadakis of our banking system, who do not hesitate even to testify before the Committee of Inquiry. Minister, I am saying this because, by the Committee of Inquiry on the loans of parties and SMEs, we were amazed to hear that most of the media maritime loans are presented in their books as so-called 'day loans', because the refinancings have now, on your days, told them not to do so. They can therefore be viewed bankers as informed by the Alfouzos, on Sunday, because they serve - hear how much - 10% of their total bank lending, which has the unique guarantee of the film shops that have them...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u5	You have to hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u6	You may not give me any dentistry. If I may, Mr President, make this concession. ...The film shops have arbitrarily evaluated them at 200 and 300 million euros. The Smurfs, indeed! That's the bail. And close? The Sunday, the Bobolas, the Dragon. Will you, Minister, allow mediocre empires to be re-established with unique guarantors of the Smurfs? In fact, with regard to the guarantee missions, what measures have you taken? Will the standard templates be requested exclusively from the known ‘SWIFT’ system? Did you anticipate that these guarantee letters should not be the so-called lent guarantee letters? Minister, answer clearly. What provision is there for permits to be reserved to canalarchs, which, in September of this year, the Committee of Inquiry of Parliament may make them subjugated to bank fraud, dirty money laundering and a moral automobile in the infidelity of the banks that have given them the explored sea loans? If, for example, they are confiscated or subjected to restrictive conditions...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Nicolopoulou, I can't leave you any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u8	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u9	I can't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u10	If restrictive conditions are imposed on them, as imposed on Mr. Constantinople, will they continue to hold legitimate or even legally transfer television licences to third parties, which will have acquired in the meantime the dirty money of today's sea-savings or from cartels? Can the Alfouzouzou Group be licensed when an investigation is already under way, following a last name complaint, for money laundering, both to the Alfouzouzou Group and to the natural person? How can we, while we do not have the conclusion of the major property and wealth tax control centre, obtain such permission from anyone like this? Finally, the bank accounts and Alfouzouzus, like Mr Psychres, may be blocked. Indeed, it has been written that Mr. Near-Northias has now imposed a fine of EUR 41 million for tax evasion. And, as you know, the trial for lending from the Post Bank is pending. Finally, the shareholder of the "MEGA", Mr. Psycharis or Mr. Bobolas, the cartel's partner, all those who resisted until today...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u11	Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u12	...we see they're coming and making applications. If you want, tell us, and what's the company from Thessaloniki that came to take part yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Nicolopoulos, first of all, you are an old colleague. That was not a timely question. That was a timely question. Let's not forget these. Secondly, I am obliged, under the Rules of Procedure, to note that, when a colleague refers to specific persons and names, the designations given are made under the responsibility of that colleague alone. Let me make that clear, too. Minister, you have the floor. Now, what you will first have to answer, this is another matter. I'll show tolerance to you too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u14	I shall reply to the question and to what I have to say from the storming questions referred by Mr Nicolopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u15	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u16	Mr Nicolopoulos, I think that in the text of your question you describe what the current government has described as 'three-way of interlocutory'. And that wasn't an accident. I would tell you that it was the way to live certain interests in Greece. It had arrived days ago, when there was discussion and there was conflict between the owners of the MEGA CHANNEL TV station, the director of one of the bands owned by the television station to leave the other two owners to put money in the station because they gained power and money. Watch what I'm telling you. That was a public statement. 'Power and money'. So we have a double assumption that not only is it not sustainable as financial patterns the channels, but that they were also used for other purposes, not for the function of informing the people and not even for the achievement of the economic gain, but for them to be born through their ownership 'power and money'. I think it was a shocking assumption, which reflected exactly what the relationship of civil servants with television media ownership has been with over the past few years. Many times the civilian staff fell into the trap to be fascinated by the on-call love of windows and news notes with the unique result, of course, of perpetuating a situation that did not honor anyone. These companies were operating, precisely because they were much more than the market could with damage, at costs far greater than they would have withstand. And right there, the banks also came to bend the bank loan rules, unfortunately, because in turn they were also under political pressure from a political staff who expected support. I would therefore tell you that the SYRIZA - ANEL government has responded to the demands of the people you have described. And it has responded, because the end of the use of frequencies we have also collected the advertising tax. And in relation to bank lending, I would say that here you should also inform us, because you are also a member of the Committee of Inquiry on SME loans. I think it was a very serious initiative of the parliamentary majority, although there was the conclusion of the Bank of Greece, because, as you know, a second eye never hurts, especially if the eye, which is called on to check, is similar to the eye that is controlled. I would say to you that a suspicious person could also connect the previous capacity of the Governor of the Bank of Greece, Mr Stournaras, who was formerly Minister of the Government of Samaras, who dealt very specifically with the "hot" issue, which we are discussing and which is extremely suspicious of this priority status. You are now asking whether and who will get permissions. The process, which we have set up, Mr Nicholas, is absolutely objective and presupposes that the participants on the specific issues you have raised have not been condemned irrevocably for very specific offences, such as money laundering, involvement in a criminal organisation, money laundering and so on. There is the presumption of innocence, of course, in our legal culture. The irrevocable condemnation is obvious that they cannot participate. The process, which we have set up, is absolutely objective. There is a company of auditors, an audit firm, which will check the records, which have been submitted for the tender. We set up the competition committee, co-operating in the design of the tender with Greek universities, and created it by making use of representatives of the Greek public administration. The Ministry has nothing to do with it, rather than with regard to the objective of the procedure and, of course, with ensuring that the provisions of the law are complied with. There is, at the moment, considerable interest, I would say, which we record as positive. In the timetable, which we have described, we are absolutely in. On Monday the deadline for submission of applications expires, and I think that we will be in the anticipated and early August the auction will take place. In any case, the schemes, which will be involved, should deposit their tax and banking information. Their guarantee letters, of course, must be reliable and I would say that we will move on to sustainable shapes. The whole debate, which has taken place in the previous period, in relation to the number of channels and the severe criticism, which I and the government have personally been subject to, is currently being emptied of four channels. I think this debate seems very outdated, in the light of the events of bankruptcy of large television stations, when, in other words, the market and the owners of the television media themselves appreciate, value and decide not to put money in order to support these business forms. So I think we're in the last phase. The government will ensure what it committed itself to, namely transparency in the television scenery, while respecting both the laws and the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Nicolopoulos, I'll give you the floor for two minutes, even though you said about dentology, because I think you'd like to fill in something. Keep it 'focused condemnation'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much. Mr President, I would like to say that everyone defines himself with his actions. So what I mentioned in their names, about their actions society, the Greek people say to them - they were not told by Karamanlis alone - "pimps". And he tells them a lot more, because they gave them rights. Finally, they have been convicted of slanderers, such as Mr Bobolas from the speaker - sooner or later - because they slander us, because we exercise parliamentary control, from the means available, to terrorise us. Minister, our dear and respected President Kaklamanis really reminded us that he wants irreversible. Is that right? So they'll all be back in the game. And while things will be done, you say to me: 'I have nothing to do.' What do you mean, you have nothing to do? You should tell the big business tax control centers to get over with the check that is now done by Giannis Alfouzouzou. Tell them to go and get over with Nearmenia and Psychelles. If three, four, five, ten years, when will it be? In the other life? We Christian Orthodox men are, we believe in the afterlife, but I do not believe that we will find them again in front of us and after death in order to deal with them. Now, what are you doing, Mr. Pope? So if now, let them come back, say hello to me the plank. It'll be the biggest defeat you'll ever have if these gentlemen show up again. Mr President, today's publication says that a step in the SSM is coming back to Athens for red loans. I'll testify to that if Mr. Pappas hasn't seen it. These, yes, won't keep the Frankiads, Mr. Poppa. Did you take Mr. Frankiadakis with ASA? Did you read what Mr. Frankiadakis said the other day? He was a kid and he didn't know what he was signing. And he told us to know this too, that refinancing is not new funding. All this says, the red loans were seen by the strangers and sent from where they came from, where you didn't send them. Is that what you know who she is? They're the loans of all of them. So they have the right to steal, come and make the housekeepers. And I almost went through the amendment. And thankfully - particularly on your side, and we also shouted out the Vaxebanes - did not go through the cartel amendment. In other words, twenty-seven years the public was stolen by the big-workers, the national contractors, the Bobolas, but he has the right, he is honest, he is moral, to get licenses again. What do you think? And it has no way of defending the state.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u19	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u20	I close, saying: Leave Mr. Mitsotakis. He disguises himself every day. Don't you feel sorry for the smoke? There, there, three, four came to make applications and Cyriakos cried if not all of his friends do. Where are they going? They're bankrupt. They're fucked. And most of all, they're bored morally in society. He'll figure it out, too. It'll take some time, and he'll know. I asked you about Thessalonikios. You know what to tell us? Can you tell us, or don't you know, he didn't tell you anything from the General Secretariat?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u21	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u22	I shall reply very briefly, Mr President. As provided for all public tendering procedures, in Law 4339 the notice of invitation to tender establishes incompatibility with candidates if an irrevocable judgment has been given to their shareholders or legal representatives. It is not enough to exclude from the competition the exercise of criminal prosecution only. In any case, I would like to repeat that this government has no one personally. What we will not allow is to continue the immunity regime. And I think it should also be recognised by the Opposition and by you, Mr Nicolopole, that this government, as well as on television licences, and on how it manages the issues of television advertising and its interventions, has taken steps in the right direction. In any case, I think that very soon we will be able to come here and discuss exactly what the course and results of the competitive process we have chosen, and then we will all be judged, if none of the sixty-six actions or other legal actions taken by private television stations are brought, if anything is caught and the competition is cancelled. I think we'll be able to talk soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u23	We are now continuing with a circle of three questions to which Mr Evangelos Apostolos will answer. We enter the fourth question under number 1058/28-6-2016 of the First Circuit of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Ministers for Rural Development, Food and Home Affairs, on compensation for the floods and hail on 25 June 2016 in the Peloponnese regions. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. This question is not the original one, because at least the regions of Ilias, Arcadias, Argolis have been at the centre of interest in recent years because of fires, floods, new fires, new floods. Of course, this is not the bad thing, nor is the God who hates them! The choices of governments, which at all times take no measures to shield science and technology from natural disasters, are to blame. There are measures which can be taken, as well as too many proposals. But there are other priorities. Instead of armoring Megalopolis, they discovered the square. Instead of armoring the Argos, they built the main square with 5 million. In this respect, therefore, there are certain responsibilities. The question is whether the current government, which follows the drone and the previous ones - has no plans - will take concrete measures, firstly, to record overall losses, secondly to 100% - despite what the various regulations stipulate - of all the disasters suffered by farmers, farmers, farmers, farms and other activities, construction, with immediate funding, by means of emergency aid to the flooders. And, of course, they must be exempted - on the initiative of the government - from a number of obligations in respect of taxes and banks for the period until the damages are recovered and the situation can be normalised. Because, of course, it's not just the floods. Farmers have to face the invasion of recent years by the Common Agricultural Policy, by the decisions of governments, by the increases in VAT and taxation. You understand, then, what a desperate situation the recent floods have shaped. So the question is very clear and we expect the government, not theories and 'will', but concrete measures and a concrete timetable for implementing the damage recovery measures.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u25	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, what I will tell you will not be theoretical, because it is not possible to damage from natural disasters in agricultural production to be the government's responsibility. What the government is responsible for is whether the state mechanism and the public bodies are working more widely to cover these damages. So the responsibility for the damage in our country lies with ELGA. When the damage is caused, the next day we have the announcements of damage, the submissions of the declarations concerned and the assessors are in the process of assessing these damages. From there on, like the reality, on the basis of the organogram and the ELGA regulation, if these damages are covered, the necessary personalisation procedures are carried out and they are put into a programme to cover them for their compensation. If these damages are not covered by the ELGA, what we have as a possibility to do is to consider whether these damages can be covered by State aid or to cover the loss of income from the well-known de minimis. By operating, of course, within the framework of the Common Agricultural Policy - you disagree, we are obliged to operate in this reality - we will see whether the European Commission will approve this cover of expenditure that the ELGA cannot cover, or whether the government budget allows for such cover. That is what we call 'State aid' or 'de minimis' for loss of income. These are the procedures that at least today cannot be avoided. I am telling you this because we cannot all insist at the same time and say why we do not take the aid or the other, and at the same time there is a risk. Watch out for the dangerous one, which is currently developing in the European Union. The European Commission is beginning to allow Member States to increase de minimis, i.e. state aid on the ground, which means that weak countries will at some point find themselves in front of the dilemma 'you want to give state aid to cover, as we all say, the needs', which at the same time means that Community aid is being deducted. So you realise that the dilemma is very difficult to answer. What do we want? We want to give aid which means that we will lose on the other hand or as much as possible be able to cover this part through aid, because the budgetary conditions are such and the state budget does not allow it. That is the big question we have to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u28	I'm afraid you've confirmed me. I told you specific things to answer us. Are these specific answers? Is this a specific timeframe? Excuse me very much, but who are you addressing? This debate concerns the floods of these regions. What did you tell them? You said something and I didn't get it? You say 'we will see', 'we will appreciate', 'we will sew', 'if the regulations allow', 'if the financial situation so permits'. Say specific things when the specific things are very characteristic. Who are you talking about and what compensation? Are you serious now or are you lying to the world? Do you know that the ELGA owes 80m euros, because there have been hundreds of thousands of statements that go beyond the EUR 80m in 2016 alone and have given nothing? You know he's still not personalized, why the ELGA controllers are in abstention? Do you know that the 2015 ELGA owes EUR 30 million compensation? These things you know very well. They're familiar with you. You know very well, too, that ELGA is not funded by the state budget. He's rewarding. Farmers give EUR 4 million a year in terms of valuation fees, namely the statements they make to appreciate them. The contributions of farmers to ELGA are EUR 140 million. What did you give of it? It's time. What objective assessment of disasters will be made by assessors, whenever they go, for disasters in March, February, May? Secondly, you know very well that the state budget has a reserve to deal with emergencies. What are you going to give of this for constructions and everything else? Thirdly, does the government seriously not have responsibility for the disasters? Who are you telling? Did he take steps to protect him? What is the plan for anti-military protection in Greece? What is the design for fire protection or earthquake protection? Is there a plan? Whose responsibility is that of God who will throw it from the top? Isn't it the government's responsibility? Then weep and pity and sympathize with the world destroyed by earthquakes, fires and floods? Do you not have a political gum when you give billions to business groups, to armament expenditures for NATO and the others? And you say where you get the money? How much does PPC give from the end of lignite to Megalopolis and the wider area? Where's that money going? On sidewalks and squares, on fiestas and beauty works and not on the real needs they need to meet. So the money is there. Under the responsibility of governments, regions and municipal authorities, there is a right-wing and left-wing for windowwork and not for substance projects. And you also have a huge responsibility that you have accepted the same logic of the European Union's GAP policies, the PSENs, the European programmes that do not finance these projects and you do not claim to find resources to fund anti-military, anti-Semitism needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u29	Here, Mr Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u30	Mr. Colleague, I've responded to your theoretical position. Definitively damage was done on 25 June 2016. However, there were damages ahead of us both in June and May. All of this has already begun with the necessary points. We are currently in a situation where the assessors are absent from their duties. We told them the other day - and I repeat this at this point - that the beginning of this week an amendment is tabled which covers the extra costs of their travellers. So they are directly required - especially for the sake of the rural area they are serving - to go to the areas concerned and to make assessments. There's no problem. Estimates will be made normal. From there on, of course, the damages and everything - I repeat - are covered by the ELGA regulation. The rest will follow the procedures I have told you, which we cannot avoid. It's a one-way road. As far as damage is concerned in these areas, I tell you that most of the damage in 2015 has already been paid. We believe that within the next two, three months, a remnant there will be paid. The procedure for payment of compensation has always been delayed because of the procedures for assessment, personalisation, all of this. We're normally paying the rural area. From that point on, because you are constantly talking about waste, that there is money for squares, etc., to know that when there is a regulatory procedure within the framework of the common agricultural policy, we cannot use the money as we want. There is a specific regulation how they will be used. Because as many times as we have tried to do such procedures, we pay them three and five times more, with the fines and the recoverys they are demanding. So I have no objections. You may say your views, but unfortunately that is the reality. We are therefore planning to see the organogram and the ELGA regulation on a new basis, because there are indeed too many damages that are not currently covered by the ELGA. However, proportionate studies are needed for each type of damage, for each type of product covered by the ELGA. That is certainly what we are looking at. And because, especially at this point in time, the weather conditions due to the climate change that exists, they also affect the rural area, are under way an entire process in the European Commission if we may also see this part, namely compensation cover, aids in particular the effects of climate change on agricultural production. But we can't tell you right now that it's certain they'll be covered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u31	These are outside the question. The second question, under number 1059/28-6-2016, will be discussed in the context of a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Lesvos, of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Stavros Tassos, to the Ministers for Rural Development and the Environment and Energy, concerning measures to compensate farmers and restore crops and infrastructure from the fire caused on 19-06-2016 in Rhodes. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, the question I am going to put now is the same and of course comes from another natural disaster, from a fire. On 19-6-2016, a few days ago, we had a very large fire that destroyed over seventeen thousand acres in the areas of Istirio, Arnitha, Monolith and Sianna, literally ashing over nine thousand acres, more than half of what was burned, with olive trees, citrus fruits, cereals and other agricultural crops, as well as stable facilities and infrastructure. Of course, this is not the first time these areas have been hit by fire. Something similar had been done in 1992 and 2003. Furthermore, it is great that the irrigation of the irrigation network has suffered, so that irrigation, even those crops that have been saved and at risk, is impossible. Farmers have a serious problem with the lack of animal feeding, since pasture has been burnt. The well-known protected deer of Rhodes, Dama - dama, with a population of around a thousand five hundred and two thousand deer, faces a survival problem, since the fire burned part of the habitat over Apolakia. The forest wealth of the entire surrounding area and the villages that are in it is completely burned and at risk from floods, in case of rain, and the settlements of the wider area are threatened. It is true that the population of this region has survived direct State intervention in order to record losses without time-consuming procedures, to compensate those affected to 100% of the losses of production, capital and infrastructure. It is also judged by the restoration of all damaged water supply and irrigation networks and the immediate launch, technical and anti-corrosion projects to protect rural infrastructure, housing from flooding and landslides. Financial facility measures are imposed to the affected by suspending the payment of bank loans for the next five years, free of charge, granting interest-free loans - growing and repairing - for ten years and tax-free and municipal charges by 2020. The huge disaster suffered by the infrastructures and crops of the farmers in this region has led them to despair, having to deal with all other tax measures, as a result of the anti-grassroots and taxing policy of all governments and, of course, of the current government of SYRIZA - ANEL. So we ask you what immediate measures will you take as a government to record the damage, to compensate and to provide all the financial facilities for the farmers affected and to restore the cultivation and infrastructure of the fire caused in the villages of Apolakia, Arnitha, Istrio, Monolith and Sianna of the Municipality of Rhodes? We also want you to tell us which measures you will take to declare the burnt land immediately resurrected, without any change in use, and to protect the habitat and the only type of deer of Rhodes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u33	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Colleague, I personally was directly located at the site of the destruction, head of the ELGA stadium, and I have an opinion. In fact, this is a major ecological and economic disaster in the wider Apolakia - Istry area. We're talking about southern Rhodes. Indeed, it is about seventeen thousand acres, of which seven thousand to eight thousand acres are agricultural land, while the rest are forest. What we have been directly concerned with and are already ready to do - the Ministry of Interior, not our own side, because we are not competent - is to announce a sum that will cover the costs of repairing the irrigation network in the area, for the simple reason that there are crops which have not been completely destroyed and we must keep them alive, because it is indeed an area where rural activity and livestock are dominating. From that point on, we are certainly looking at the possibility of restoring damage, especially for public works, which are linked to floods. We're in constant contact with the Ministry of Infrastructure. From our point of view, what we immediately did at the same time - because I told you we had a step in the ELGA together - was to start this first assessment process. So we met with the actors, with the people in the region and they already started to submit the relevant applications, where through a process of personalising the damage, we will proceed. I do not want to repeat the previous one for the simple reason that it is so. ELGA does not cover forest fire damage. We therefore need to look at this through other procedures, which I repeat are procedures which require the approval of the European Commission. That's the reality. From there on, there are other issues. You have really placed a sensitive part of Rhodes' deer. So there we need to see how we secure a habitat for him, because now with the fires that have occurred, the deer habitat has been reduced. At the same time, we are in the process of preparing an addition, particularly as regards deer and damage to farmers in the region. You realize that in order for the deer to survive, he wants this place too. So we'll see how we cover them through ELGA. There is the possibility, but that is something I cannot tell you at the moment, because it is being treated in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u35	Here, Mr. Tassos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u36	Minister, that's exactly the problem, the reality you're constantly invoking. But if this reality is bad for us, for the people, for the workers, for the people's layers, we change it. We change it, Minister, and we do not accept this reality as if it were a natural phenomenon, that is to say, an earthquake that we can only do is to minimise its consequences. We're changing that reality. And that's something we've been calling you, and we've been telling you for years! In the context in which you are moving, in the context of the European Union and the capitalist system, there are no solutions that are polite, no solutions that protect the environment. All are goods for sale for profit. You know very well that expenditure on anti-nuclear, anti-military and anti-Semitism protection is not eligible. And they're not eligible because they don't bring big profits to capital fast. That's why they're not eligible! That is the system you are serving, and that is why we incite you. In the case of Rhodes you created an urban non-profit company, "ETEAPROFYKA", to take over, says, anti-nuclear protection. And you saw where we ended up! The problems are not solved by transferring the state and society in general its responsibilities to individuals who, of course, only take profit. This thing can't be done. That's the problem, and that's what you need to change. And to be more specific, you should try to take immediate steps to compensate these people who have been destroyed, as well, and to have an organised anti-nuclear protection with emphasis on prevention. Still, they're gonna have to open up anti-nuclear belts. This morning, I was talking to a resident in the region, who was telling me exactly what this is about, that in Turkey they have filled with fire-fighting zones, and we do not have them at all. You don't even take these little measures, and then you come and tell us, "What can we do? That is the obligation we have on the basis of the European Union and so on. That's right! These are the iron laws of capitalism! Everything about people's gains and needs in unclaimed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u37	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u38	My colleague, I have no intention of supporting the ironic laws of capitalism. What I said to you and I repeat is that at this point every year, EUR 2.8 billion in the rural area is coming as aid and another EUR 1 billion for rural development and investment programmes. You realise that the country at this time is not easy to say that I am forgetting these things. Furthermore, all allowances covered by the ELGA, based on proportionate studies and premiums paid, will be paid. The assessments will be made and compensation will be made. From there on, the extra sums that are not covered, so that we can cover them, we need to carry out a proportionate study. It's not an easy thing to say that for this damage, so much is the premium, okay, we're covering it. Technocratic processes are needed, which cannot be done from one day to the next. In this case, the day-to-day life of the rural area is so difficult. All over Greece at this time, because of climate conditions, there is damage, floods, disasters. That is not the way to go about it. We're trying to get through the possibilities we have. Honestly, believe us, there is a great deal of effort going on in the possibilities we have. At the same time, we are trying to see from the side of the European Union what possibilities we have to take out all the margins. Because we cannot have any more Hatzigakis packages with the consequences of neither financial corrections, fines for pastures of EUR 300 million and EUR 400 million every year. These must stop. Because if these continue, the rural area has been erased. Unfortunately, that is the reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u39	Next is the ninth number 944-14-2016 topical question of the second-cycle question of the MP Arcadias coalition of the Radical Left, Mr. George Papaliou, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the ‘Hatzigakis package’ and the decision of the European Court of Justice to recover the sum of EUR 327 million as unlawfully paid to Greek farmers in 2008 and 2009. Mr. Papaliou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, with an irrevocable ruling from the Court of Justice, Greece is required to recover a sum of hundreds of millions of euros as unlawfully paid to Greek producers and farmers in 2008 and 2009 through ELGA, also known as the ‘Hatzigakis package’. It is known that the "Hatzigakis package" was given by the then government of New Democracy for reasons of micro-political. I'm afraid it's time for the bill. The recovery will be accounted for and made by each of the producers for the amount collected. However, from this total amount in 2008 it was paid by decision of the ELGA as compensation for inconsistency, reduced production on trees, such as cherry, pears, apples, and under the procedure provided for in the ELGA Regulation, i.e. by invitation, the granting of a deadline for the submission of declarations of damage, control, assessment of losses by the relevant auditors-growers and, of course, individualised findings notified to producers, always in accordance with the ELGA Regulation. This has happened in areas such as the area of Arcadia, for which a document by Director ELGA Tripoli was issued, which haunts acarpia. Therefore, this was an entirely substantiated injury identified for each producer individualised, legal, legal and not without respecting the rules of the ELGA Regulation, as it may have been in other cases only by the declaration of producers to the IAEA. In view of the fact that a joint ministerial decision on the allocation of the amount deemed illegal State aid by the judgment of the Court of Justice is adopted, it is therefore clear and entirely fair not to allocate amounts to the Arcadia peasant producers, since the legal procedure for them has been followed literally and on substance they have been compensated for the actual damage they suffered. The question, therefore, is whether you intend not to include the category of farmers - producers in Arcadia - in the joint ministerial decision to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u41	Thank you. Minister, since you will respond, I would ask you to tell us whether you know other states, such as Italy and Spain, which followed exactly the same procedure and whether in these two states the corresponding return penalty has been imposed. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, the decision of that committee to recover is irrevocable. There is no legal instrument. From there on, it is possible, on the basis of this irrevocable decision, that the committee itself should bring the matter directly to the General Court, asking for Greece to be sentenced for failure to comply and for penalties to be imposed on it, which is already there for Italy and I do not remember the other country at this time in a situation where there is a situation in which there is a situation in which there is a situation in which there is a situation in which there is a situation in which there is a situation in which there is a situation in which Greeks are not complying. But at the same time, the same decision is also directly enforceable. On the basis of the case-law of the court, the reimbursement - it says - of unlawful and incompatible aid is a precondition for the granting of new aid. We will not, in other words, have new aid unless we return what has been unlawfully granted. But let's see what's happened. A total of EUR 788 million was granted to rural areas in 2008 and 2009. Of these 788 million, compatible - I repeat - with the regulation of the European Union were deemed to be the 374 million euros. So with this aid, we have no problem. We have a problem - which is why we are discussing recovery - with the remaining 420 million, involving seven hundred and twenty thousand farmers. But, through the conciliation and negotiation process, we have reached a perfect conclusion - I would say - before we make a move to recover a sum today of EUR 220 million, which is about eighty thousand farmers. Again, and here too, because we need to get into a recovery process, we will not go and say to eighty-three thousand farmers: 'give us that money back'. We are already in agreement with the European Commission. We will begin by means of a joint ministerial decision to recover from - about we calculate them, no individualization has been carried out yet - 12 000 farmers. The sums for more than EUR 5,000, that is to say, from someone who took for example 6 000 euros, will be looking for one grand. This will, of course, be done through a procedure that will be linked to the aid. You have seen it as a necessary condition for it to appear, in accordance with the existing case-law. We'll connect it to the backup. We're in a consultation. We'll see in how many doses this will go so it'll be as mild as possible. You realise that when we get their approval for a first part, which is about - with the calculation we make - we will seek a new negotiation. Because I told you again before that...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u43	But finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u44	Mr President, these are very complex issues. You understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u45	Okay, but I've given you more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u46	For our part, we repeat that these regaining effects will be as mild as possible. In cases where we see that the 374 million are compatible, we will not recover them from them, because you are not asking us to recover. We'll recover from the rest of us. This is not a one and two days process, that is to say, to look for who they are, where they are today and what possibilities they all have.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u47	Mr. Papaliou, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u48	Mr Minister, as you have said, I understood that at least in Arcadia, where all the legal procedures have been followed, under the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament, and of course we have legal, legal and individualized compensation, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the EPG, there is no need for recovery. I would like to add, of course, that the Arcadia region is an extremely problematic region which is decreasing. I would also like to add two more elements, which I consider to be important and which I think should be weighted and taken into account when adopting any decision. The Arcadia producers - and not only in recent years - have been damaged by ice, hailfall, drought, depending on the area in which they operate. Compensation has received only a few, or has received compensation, which does not meet the actual damages, so they go in. It is also known that last Saturday, the Arctic producers suffered a total disaster, due to the flooding and quartzing that brought the final blow to the production of certain regions. Apart from the fact that whole regions such as Tegea, Corinthia, part of northern Kynuria, Gortynia and Tripoli have been declared emergency, it has, of course, been requested - it is not the time, but I think it should be heard - should be suspended until the losses are recovered, the compensation is paid, the payment of insurance contributions to OGA and ELGA and, for as long as necessary, the tax obligations and the instalments of loans to the banks. It is the minimum supply to farmers in Arcadia, who, as you know, are really guarding Thermopylae. Otherwise, the situation will be extremely negative and, ultimately, it will be disastrous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u49	Here you go, Mr. Apostle.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u50	Mr Colleague, let's go a little in 2008-2009. Indeed, it was difficult years and indeed needed the rural area for compensation - aid. That's what we used to call it at the time. It's just that some of them were actually compatible with the ELGA Regulation and these procedures were made. At this point we do not know why they are all about Greece. These persons, called for recovery, exist in the decision, but it is not right to enter a nomenclature procedure at this time. The other thing I want to tell you is what didn't happen then. To those who were not compatible, at least on the part of the government at the time, we had to make a request or a notification to the European Union that 'we want to do this' or 'we will do that, we need it'. It would be quite different in the relevant negotiations from what we have before us, which no one has been informed, so that there is a constant pressure on the part of the European Commission. There is a law of 2013, which was answered by the previous government: “We through forced collection procedures will look for these amounts.” They did not apply it and, of course, we came afterward and said that it is not possible to put the rural area in such forced recovery procedures. That is why we have linked it to aid and, of course, by trying four hundred and twenty thousand farmers, we have now reached eighty-five. We've got a road ahead of us. Let us take this part which concerns those who have taken most of them, and we mean more than 5,000 euros. I cannot at this time name any persons or regions which are either compatible or incompatible. We've got a way ahead of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u51	Athanasios Davakis, Member of the Commission. - (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his answer. The Minister will answer Mr. George Juliarakis. Mr. Davakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u52	Thank you. Mr President, the amendment that had been tabled to Article 236 of the so-called '4389/2016', concerning the suspension of wage promotions for military personnel of the Armed Forces, laid down - and I read exactly: 'This provision does not apply if the Ministries concerned determine budgetary interventions of an equivalent net lasting cost savings, which will be specified and implemented by 30-9-2016 and implemented from 1-1-2017'. So, by 30 September, as the amendment tells us, interventions of an equivalent net cost savings must be found. Since then, the Minister of National Defence has always referred to you - and that is why I have asked you, Minister, to attend to clarify - says that these equivalents, these cost-saving equivalents, have been found. At the same time, it says that these codes have been sent to you so that there is no freezing of wage promotions. The subject of my question is, I would now say, in the knowledge of all these issues, to tell us the numbers of these codes, to give us some explanation, because, as you can see from the ranks of both the active and retired military officials, they are for many years, of course, but especially now with these ministerial announcements of the Minister of National Defence, in disarray and I would like to say very lighting - and I would say very enlightening - to enlighten them and make them worry at least less. I am anxiously awaiting your reply, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u53	Mr Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be brief. Let me begin by saying a few words about the design of the new special wages. The Ministry of Finance these days completes its own proposal on new special wages, with the aim of legislating the next period and, in any case, before the end of September 2016. These special wages relate to the remuneration of a wide range of public servants. They are university professors, diplomats, judges and, of course, they concern permanent officials of the Armed Forces of the Hellenic Police, the Fire and Port Authority. The objectives of the Ministry of Finance's proposal for new special payrolls are three: First of all, the simplification, secondly, the restoration of a justice system, the restoration of wage scales, which stimulate discrimination, reward excellence and, thirdly, the compatibility of public income policy with the medium-term budgetary strategy framework. I would like to say a few words on the first of your two questions. The new special wages on the one hand - which, as I said, will be legislated in the next two months - and the freeze of the special wages on the other hand, as provided for by L.4393/2016, are two absolutely distinct issues. New special wages are now being legislated and in force immediately after their legislation and therefore 1-1-2017. In the theoretical case where new special wages have been frozen, these will be the payrolls provided for in the new law. L.4393/2016 provides for the freezing of special wages only in case - and I stress - that the relevant ministries do not identify budgetary interventions with an equivalent net savings of permanent expenditure and, of course, have the margin to do so from now on from 1-7-2016 until the end of September 2016, i.e. exactly three months. The Ministry of Finance is not responsible for drawing up these proposals. We are sure that both the Ministry of National Defence and the other relevant ministries - I am talking more about the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Education - will arrange and submit their own proposals for evaluation to the Ministry of Finance. To date - and I must be honest with this - the Ministry of Finance has not received such proposals with equivalent compensatory measures, to avoid - if you like - the freezing of the growth and wage promotion of wages, but we are of course that will soon be the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u55	As you can see, Minister, you gave us news because I think it was not in vain time what was said in this House by the Minister of National Defence. Mr. Davakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u56	I am pleased, Mr President, because last time you were a witness, as President-in-Office, to the ministers, not Mr Juliarakis but Mr Kammenos, and you can combine the data. Minister, I believe and want to recognize this presence. You're honest. Nevertheless, the surrounding atmosphere, which has been created, is "do not worry, I have found the equivalents, the codes, and I have even sent them to Mr. Juliarakis" and on this I would like your position. This was the answer to a fellow Member's question on June 14, 2016, where Mr Kammenos says that the codes you are talking about have already been submitted to the Ministry of Finance, which is currently undoing your own intervention that, in other words, you have not yet received anything. In fact, we are not only staying in the codes, but we are referring to specific points. I would like to mention three, and I would like, Minister, to have your position on this at the time when you are available. Firstly, the Minister has an unsettled balance of EUR 100 million from FPI, from the advance payment warrant. Second, unspent credits from the code group 6900, which includes equipment payment codes. Thirdly, reimbursements from companies with which the Ministry of National Defence has signed contracts and where the element of the dispute may exist. He even mentioned ‘RHEINMETAL’, whose legal counsel gives the Ministry of National Defence 200 million to compromise. You'll find these if you look at the minutes of the House. Dabakis doesn't say it. Mr. Kammenos said so, Minister of National Defence. Fourthly, by exploiting the real and unusable material of the Armed Forces. Don't vain. The money we've found, and it's the specifics. Now comes Minister Juliarakis and says "I have received nothing". I would also like to thank you very warmly because of your technical and political presence in this Chamber and because of your credibility in these three-fours, which I have mentioned and which the Minister has referred to in order not to worry about the executives. After today's debate, I feel that the active and retired military officials should be more concerned. We must at last be precise in this Chamber - and I am not talking about you, Minister - to be specific and above all to serve the truth beyond all purposes, because the truth as much as it may be hidden will be revealed. I would be very grateful if I had your place on the specifics I asked you. I think I was clear and I would like there to be a clear explanation on all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u57	You have the floor, Mr. Juliaraki.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be shorter. I have no reason to doubt the opposite. I would say that I am sure that all the relevant ministers, both the Minister of National Defence and the Ministers for Justice and Education, will take care of them. They have plenty of time to submit their own equivalent proposals as soon as possible. They have a period of three months before them. I should like to stress here that these proposals must relate to measures of a permanent nature.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u59	As he says. But you haven't received any codes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u60	Time is abundant and the Treasury expects to receive an evaluation of these proposals. By the time we're talking, that hasn't happened. I think I'm quite clear. I repeat that I am absolutely sure they will see to it that I too have heard the Minister of National Defence be placed accurately, with numbers and codes. They're just waiting for them to be sent to the Ministry of Finance to be evaluated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u61	The fourth is the 992/13-2016 topical question from the F Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR of Mr. Dimitrios Kremastinos to the Minister of Finance, on the bankruptcy of the country and the financial deflection. Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u62	Mr President, what I shall say has nothing to do with the Deputy Minister, Mr Juliarakis, whom I particularly appreciate. The question is addressed to the Minister of Finance, because it is really a very big problem. It is essentially about the dismantling of the political system, as it appears in all polls. And deception is obvious, because it has not answered the world exactly what has happened to this day. The committee, which was set up for the debt and started, is supposed to, since 2009, say that the debt was a case that evolved from 2009 onwards - has stopped. The proposal for a Democratic Incorporation and PASOK was to set up a committee that at least started since Greece entered the Eurozone or whatever it wants, in any case. People want to know why, for example, HNVO was voted to be limited in time, and HNVIA goes to the undetermined, because taxes go on and on an indefinite basis, because VAT is the highest in Europe and do not know where it will arrive. This whole story really hurts the political system. That's what all the polls look like. So it is a question of democracy and not a question of simple question. It's a matter of forming the civil society. Everywhere you collect this when you go out on the street and ask the world. The question, then, today is: How does the citizen hear that Greece of PASOK led by Costas Simitis in 2004 was seconding to Europe all the good comments and the Prime Minister even proposed, when the European Constitution was open, to be a candidate for the Presidency of Europe? How did this story give her continuity to the next Prime Minister, who was Mr Karamanlis, who said that "Greece is intact from the fall of the well-known bank in America" and that "we should not be afraid of anything" and it turned out that we should be afraid of everything? And, of course, we have come to the point that Mr Shoeble tells us today that 'only the fools bring the VAT up, because whoever takes the VAT does harm his economy'. "Sure" says "Greece is a special case. I do not know what will happen with Greece." And Reggling, the leader of the largest group - if you like - comes to Europe, who says that lately, that is, in the last year, we have damaged the government, with our policy, by 100 billion. So when the citizen hears all these things every day, you realize that it is being led to irrationality. And whoever is extreme and wants to use this, uses it and puts it against the whole political system. So the Ministry of Finance, if anything, must give the exact figures that one can read to understand or interpret exactly what is happening. That is why I said that Mr Chakalotos, representing the political part of the government, should be here today to answer the question. However, I imagine that you will only be confined to numbers, and I do not know whether this will help the substance of the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u63	Here, Mr. Juliarakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I will not confine myself to the figures alone, and I would like to make it clear that the answer I will give - I think - covers the Ministry of Finance as a whole. It's not just my opinion. You have raised two issues. One is the issue of the causes of the budgetary deflection of the period 2000-2010 and the second you have put it now - not the question you have tabled - and it is the issue of the management of the budgetary diversion from 2010 to today. These are huge issues, of course, but time is extremely limited. I will confine myself to the historical question this time and if you want us to come back to another place - and to discuss the second one. I have, after all, been placed for the second many times. The figures are public information, they are elements of the Greek Statistical Authority, I have them with me and I will submit them to the Bureau of the Parliament, so that you and anyone else can see them. I would like to make two - three comments on the causes of the 2010 budgetary diversion. First of all, the obvious reason for the great Greek recession in 2010-2015 is two major macroeconomic balances that - if you like - are the two sides of the same currency. On the one hand, we have a dramatic deterioration in the external trade balance and on the other hand we have a dramatic deterioration in public finances. I would say that a common starting point for both sides of the same currency is excessive private-sector borrowing, but also for the public sector since 2000, which has mainly been based on the euphoria created by the country's accession to the euro. I will say this very simply: the assessment of the Greek debt in 2009, one year before the crisis, was somewhat - very much the same as the assessment of the German debt from the international markets. This shows how effective markets are many times in the evaluation of reality. So this has led to an over-finance of the Greek economy for a decade. In the private sector it supported a distorted growth model and reproduced multiple inequalities. They're very familiar, I don't have to get in there. In the public sector too, it has led to a great increase in budgetary deficits over time. I would like to stress, in order to demonstrate exactly the peculiarity of Greece, that the corresponding crisis, corresponding pathogens, appeared in both Spain and Ireland and to a certain extent in Portugal. In these countries, however, there was a difference: the bubble, i.e. excessive lending, went to the private sector and to the housing market. In Greece the heart of the problem was public finances, i.e. public borrowing. So there are three main reasons. The first, obvious, are the political responsibilities of the governments that managed public finances, especially in the second half of 2010, more than 2007, I would say, by 2009. This is a first answer, however, which leaves many other questions unanswered. The issue is why one, where I am now or where Euclid Tsakalots is, has the margin and while the economy runs fast, produce deficits. The second major issue, which I think is the heart of the problem, is the great weakness, unreliableness, of the Greek financial institutions, which allow the production of deficits not only when the economy does not go well, not only when the economy is in recession, so the creation of deficits is necessary in the context of countercyclical policy, but also when the economy goes well. Remember the economic growth in the years 2002-2009 and the second half of the decade, after the Olympiad, that is, despite the high rates, Greek finances have deteriorated over time. It is what I say many times 'the bias for deficit production'. Definite deficits are produced raining - snow. Let me make a comment on this. There is often a misunderstanding that the Keynesian economic policy is a deficit-making policy. It's wrong. You produce deficits when the economy does not go well, when the economy slows down, but when the economy recovers, you have to produce surpluses. This imbalance, i.e. the bias of deficit production, I think I would put at the heart of the problem of Greek public finances. Thirdly, the loss of credibility with the non-accuracy of the public finances of 2010. Here too, Europe has a responsibility. This is also a responsibility for the European Commission, which for a long time - I have no evidence to prove it, but I do not think it could be different - covered the real economic size.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u65	Please finish, Minister. I've left you twice as much time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u66	Thank you for your tolerance. So there are three issues. Political responsibilities, major structural pathogens in public finances and a crisis of credibility. This is also the effort that this government is making: the restoration of credibility and the redefinition of budgetary institutions on a sound basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u67	Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President, for the Minister, Mr Juliarakis, responded as much as he could. But I am keeping what I said, if I understood it correctly, that the big diversion took place between 2007 and 2009. The second thing I'm saying is that Mr. Provopoulou, the head of the Bank of Greece at the time, said that he told everyone at the beginning of 2009 to the Prime Minister and then to the opposition that the thing is going that way and that the deficit is growing. Within a few months from 6% to 7% reached 12%, 13%, 15%, as evaluated at the end. Here's the question. We must look here and see exactly what happened and whether there are responsibilities. That is why the establishment of this committee, which reveals all these figures and informs the Greek people what really happened. Otherwise everyone here feels bad, because when Parliament is affected, Parliament and the parties are affected by democracy, you understand that. That is the point of the question today, which I am asking you. I would also like you to clarify something else that is constantly heard about the thousands of appointments, for which they consider the current President of the Republic to be responsible. I do not consider him to be clear, because the appointments are simply decided on at the Ministry of Finance. It's what the Treasury says you can or can't make appointments. So were the assignments hurt all this picture or did they not hurt it at all? Because people are disoriented, these things are heard every day and they love to be allowed to express themselves. Please give us a picture of this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u69	However, I am pleased that PASOK has now entered the view that a committee of inquiry should be held on how we entered the memorandum, starting from 2000 to 2010. Because if I am not deceived, in the past two and a half years, the leadership of the PASOK did not accept this committee being made. I hope the government will also hurry to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u70	No, Mr. President. The president of PASOK, Mrs. Gennimata...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u71	No, I didn't say for now, I didn't say about the present leadership, Mr. Kremastine.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u72	For when? I think that the position has been clear, at least since the country entered the Eurozone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u73	Yeah, that's why I said I was so happy. At last, it's done. Mr Juliarakis, you have the floor, and I hope to hear your comment on the Regling Declaration. I didn't hear it in the six minutes you spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u74	I said, Mr President, that I will confine myself to the question tabled in writing on the causes of the diversion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u75	The right thing is, but everything you said isn't in the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u76	I would also like to comment on the Regling statement. First of all, I would like to say that the deterioration of the sizes since 2007 coincides with the manifestation of the great crisis of capitalism, the collapse of the 'LEHMAN BROTHERS', as you said, but also with the time that preceded the collapse. If you want, the crisis started in the summer of 2007. The crisis, therefore, means a deterioration in the conditions of liquidity in the global economy, the global economy is dries down slowly and starts to increase the cost of borrowing and thus to recycle the Greek debt. If you see the evidence I have submitted, a large part of the deterioration of the sizes after 2007 is precisely the interest charged by the Greek State for recycling the Greek debt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u77	The loans for what period, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u78	We're talking about pooled loans.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u79	What period?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u80	Much longer. Loans are ten years, 20 years, five years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u81	It was a decade-long loan interest that had to be paid in 2007 and 2009.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u82	There's this. There is the political responsibility of recognising the storm that comes and of a more prudent policy towards the consequences it may have. That's undeniable. But I want to be precise. A large part of the deterioration in 2007-2009, which, in fact, has escalated, is due to the deterioration in the global economy. But the global economy does, it has periods of euphoria and periods of crisis. When you're in crisis, you need to know what consequences you'll have. Let me say a few words about the period since 2010. Our diagnosis of the major weaknesses, the deadlock of the two previous programmes, is a little well-known. We believe that he had four major weaknesses. The main weakness was the particularly aggressive, forward-looking, procyclical fiscal policy, which locked the economy in the vicious cycle of recession. We have seen this with lower budgetary targets and significantly lower budgetary policy from now on. This is why we need to complete the fiscal adjustment, but well-designed budgetary policy, in other words, taking into account the consequences it has on the real economy. Secondly, it is the question of banks and the creation of a market for non-persistent loans that protects the weak, but it does not burden the banks, a crucial link for the economic development of the country. Thirdly, the emphasis, if you want, on structural changes in the markets for products that have been neglected, on the creation of an environment that is more open to business closures, also critical links to economic recovery from now on. In 2015, it was undoubtedly a difficult year, a year of great uncertainty, and as we know now, a year of economic stagnation. The economic growth rate is minus 0.2%. I suspect, without sure, that Mr Regling's assessment is based on the size of the loan by the European Stability Mechanism 2015-2018. A large part of this loan, the 56 million, which is about 3/4 of the loan, is for the recycling of the debt already accumulated. Another piece goes to the real economy in the form of repayment of late payments. I do not understand, and I think it is scientifically inappropriate, where such an amount arises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u83	Thank you too, Mr. Juliaraki. We will now be discussing the last time question. It is the seventh under No. 1009/16-6-2016 topical question of the second question of the Achaias MP of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Health, on the redundancies of OKANA officials in Patras. The timely question will be answered by the Minister of Health Mr. Xanthos, who will then answer the question of the Communist Party of Greece on health issues. Mr. Papatheodorou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I am pleased that you have been present here today, which we have been asking for a long time, because the subject of this question has been topical and urgent, as is also very topical, is the question of the question we have tabled on the collapse of health structures and we have not yet seen its debate being determined. I want to be very specific, because today, you know, you are being watched and watched by the interested and the workers in the OKANA, for a specific answer from your side. In October 2015, Minister, there was a two-seat notice, a psychologist's post and a nurse's post, at the OkANA unit located in Saint Stefanos prisons in Patras. Sensitive space and you understand how important these OECD services are within prison. The applications were lodged in the short term and a recruitment committee was set up, which conducted the interviews and performed the results on 16-2-2016. On the basis of these results, on March 1, the psychologist and April 1, the nurse were hired. Immediately after, and while the results had been posted, the recruitment had been carried out, there were interventions, Minister, by government officials in Achaea, so that they could be promoted despite recruitment - and this is well known at least in the OkAN area - other people, to be promoted 'inferior', to say it quite simply. On 24 May the Recruitment Committee meets no longer but the OECD Board of Directors and raises objections from other candidates. It unanimously decides on the dismissal of these two OECD workers, which I have to say is that both in St. Stephen's prison has created great tension, because the area in which the OECD service is provided is very sensitive. Finally, it decided unanimously to dismiss the two parties without prior assessment, which violates the most fundamental principle of administrative procedure, namely the previous hearing of the party concerned. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. Minister, we would like an answer. Let me tell you why. Because if the OECD workers had not been mobilised immediately, if they had not been immediately mobilised by those who were decided to be fired, and if we had not asked the same question to the Ministry on the same day, the redundancies would have taken place today, while we want a clear answer on your part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u85	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u86	My dear colleague, I think it is a good idea and a sign of maturity to be precise. Firstly, there were no redundancies. Secondly, there was a proclamation, which involved fifty two people in OkANA with a block, with proof of service. In these notices, therefore, two of them had a statement of objections, which were submitted in time on 22 and 23 February and the Board of Directors. the OKANA, which is what makes the final choice, was informed two months after the responsibilities of the Director-General of the OKANA, who at the last meeting at which he attended - because the Board. the OKANA proceeded to a post and chose another with very strong qualifications and a CVT for this post - the Board subsequently informed the Board of Directors. that there are two objections to the proposed positions. In comparison, therefore, the d.p. found that these objections were well founded and asked for the procedure to be frozen and for the matter to be reviewed. In order to remove any suspicion and shadow, it also set up a special committee to examine objections, in which a member of the D.C. takes part, a worker representative and chairs a representative of the IASC - who will give a final decision - I have been informed that this will take place in the next few days - on whether or not the objections are based. I think it will end in the most transparent and pragmatic way. I think that is a question that needs to be answered from this point of view. So we, Mr Papatheodorou, in the OkANA, as a whole in the public health system, are not fired, we are now hiring. So we hired fifty-two people with a blockage, a flexible work relationship, but urgent needs had to be met, and that was the most appropriate solution, and now we have approved eighty jobs with an indefinite employment relationship, namely, permanent staff as a whole for the dependency sector, of which twenty-fifths concern the OKAN. This has been in OkAN for ten years, Mr. Papatheodorou. OKANA makes an important effort to upgrade the services provided. It opens up two direct access structures in Athens, which aspire to the end of the year, to absorb the waiting list for integration into rehabilitation programs and makes an effort to strengthen particularly the psychosocial support for the issue of care for dependents. It is, therefore, a story, which is obviously related to change at the level of the Director-General of the OKANA and, unfortunately, brought together some of the workers' association in this development. This is not about dismissal. It's about restoring the law. They have no basis for what you say about intervention by parties, etc. and the effort we are doing is to establish a climate of good administration, transparency and dignity in the health system, which has not existed for too many years and which has been politically named, especially in this area. He knows very well that both the world and the present in Jerusalem that both the OKAN and other supervised public bodies and the public health system as a whole, were for many years the field of partisanism, customer relations and transaction with interests.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u87	Mr. Papatheodorou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, Minister, you are right. We need - if you want - temper and maturity, especially when we approach these issues. Indeed, I think that the ending of your position would be a very good start, when you want to discuss the timely question that we have tabled on the collapse of health structures. But do you want to go back to what we talked about? To be perfectly precise. So you said there were objections. There were objections, Minister, from the fourth in a row, and after the table had been completed and published, with those who had been deemed by the first recruitment committee to be the most appropriate ones. Also, some of them had particular social criteria, for example, a child with a major illness. But come on, let's see what you said before, that after we started this whole process and denounced the fact, the process was frozen and a committee was set up, which will consider the objections. Well done, Minister. This really is the right procedure. The first objections were raised by the board of directors. Why did the Governing Council reach a unanimous decision on the dismissal of the two interested parties and recruitment of two other interested parties during a period in which the matter was not known? We agree that, when this was done, I told you before, Minister, that you followed the legal procedures. Of course, Mr Minister, this new recruitment committee, which is also a member of the IAS, has become precisely because there has been pressure from both the workers and from us. Otherwise you would have or would have decided through the OECD's board of directors to close the case. That is why publicity and parliamentary scrutiny are often very important, not so that we do not go to injustice but to restore injustices. The restoration of injustice has nothing to do with the two workers. It is first of all about the criteria with which they were hired, and secondly, Mr Minister, it is about something else, that the block is indeed a flexible form of work, as you said before. Three months later, we have a review of the dossier, where I would remind you that, in order to take up a service on 1 March and 1 April each of the parties concerned, the documentation had been checked. There was also a review of the file. So something else happened. If you do not ask me why there was an intervention, I think you have insinuated the answer within what you said before. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like 30 seconds, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u89	Please, Mr. Papatheodorou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u90	Indeed, they are twenty-five positions in the OECD that come out and are permanent positions, is indefinite. Perhaps there you will also restore the injustice you have spoken about. But since, in fact, we are following the matter, I say to you: Or the rules are the same - and these are the rules that say that the worker is protected from the time he has been selected, and since the supporting documents he has submitted - or, Minister, make criteria for these twenty-five posts - have been checked. It is true that this story has a name. The name - you're right - is well known. It would not have been any different if you wished, if the place hadn't been plunged down, for a local intervention to leave two and for another two to be taken on board the premises you represent. So what we are asking is, firstly, respect for and security of labour relations and secondly, dignity in the recruitment process and control that you want to carry out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u91	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u92	Mr. Papatheodorou, I think you do not understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u93	I totally understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u94	Look, I'm quite clear. The Director-General of the OKANA concealed from the d.p. that objections had been lodged for two applications. Do you understand that? The d.p. decided, ignoring this fact.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u95	Check him out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u96	He brought it two months later, when, of course, it had become the choice.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u97	Do you know the worker's proposal, Minister? Last hearing?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u98	Listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u99	Don't do this now, Mr. Papatheodorou. Minister, continue, but do not repeat the same answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u100	No, I don't repeat a single answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u101	Refer to what you want, in addition.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u102	The answer, therefore, is that the matter has been found and the d.p., as it did not have to, has competence with the opinion of the Committee on Objections to decide. That's what the Okene regulation says. Nevertheless, this administration that exists in the OKAN today, in my opinion, also has the scientific and political authority to run such a serious and important organisation. We have chosen, Mr Papatheodorou, two members of the organization itself to command him. We didn't put statemen, we didn't put any unsuccessful MPs. We put the scientific director of OKANA, Professor of University, Mr Cafezopoulou and Mr.Photopoulou, Vice-President of the OkANA, also a psychiatrist and head of a regional unit of OKANA. These people, then, just to avoid the slightest suspicion of favorable rule, have chosen this to be the case from now on, to remove any misunderstanding. The fact is, OKANA makes a very important effort to upgrade services. It has a perception - and this government promotes - of the functional interconnection of all structures and bodies, so that the result for the healed can be better. It is doing joint projects in both prisons and elsewhere and it is working with the JITHA and I think that this intervention with the two direct access units in Athens will give a very important and critical solution to a major social problem. It will absorb the waiting list for inclusion in rehabilitation programs. To do this, we increased the budget of EUR 5 million this year. From 21 million, we took him to 26 million. There is therefore a systematic effort to support the action of this agency and to strengthen it with the necessary human resources. The rest and the debate on the client state in the country and on the responsibilities of the political forces in the deadlock we have found is a debate that is lasting and society I think has reached its conclusions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u103	The questions that were to be answered were finished. Before I invite my dear colleague Kremastinos to replace me in Greece, I will conclude by announcing that the Minister of the Radical Left, Mr Panagiotis (Panos) Skokouliakos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the reintroduction of the Collective Convention of Actors and on the sixth question of the first cycle of MP I Athens, Mr Marios Georgiadis, on the conclusion of individual contracts with the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity. Also, Mr. Toskas, in Thessaloniki, is rightly not present to answer two topical questions, in the second with number 1049/27-2016, a topical question. First cycle of MP I Piraeus, New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the unfinished audit for forged degrees in recruitment of the Firehouse and on the third with number 1054-27-6-2016, a top-level question by Evia MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the ‘absorbing of the participating five-year obligation fire-fighting contractors’. Due to a meeting with the Vice-Chancellor of Germany, Mr. Skourletis is not present as well, in order to reply to the fifth with number 1048-27-2016, a top-level question of the First Cycle of the Member of the Independent Greeks Mr.Kosokalis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "the disastrous and unjust demand of the TEN for payment of a fine and unjust fine to businesses, which had been closed during the crisis and now seek to be reactivated". The first under number 105/27-2016 topical question of the second question of the Member of Parliament Evros of the New Democracy, Mr Anastasios Grassoukas, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the upgrading of the Garden Customs and the exploitation of the prospects of the entry-out points in Evros, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. I must say that Mr Alexiadis is one of the very regular ministers. Furthermore, the sixth question under number 1015-17-2016 of the Member of Parliament of the Union of Centres, Mr Georgios Katsiantonis to the Minister of Finance, concerning the statements by the Head of Eurogroup, Mr Dysselblum, on the non-viability of the Greek project, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister, will not be discussed due to the impediment of Mr. Tsakalotou. Also, the eighth Question No 1034/21-6-2016, by Independent MEP, Mr. Eftathiou (Stathia) Panagoulis to the Minister of Finance, on the cost of the representatives of the institutions in the public sector, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister, Mr. Tsakalotos. Finally, I will give the floor to Mr. Panagoulis, who has been patient for two hours in the Chamber. The tenth under number 1003/14-6-2016 topical question for the second parliamentary party of the Communist Party of Greece. Diamonds Manolakos to the Minister of Health, on the operational problems at the Anticancer Hospital of “METAXA”, will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Polakis. Cause: workload. Likewise, twelfth under number 899/23-5-2016 a top-cycle question by the New Democracy MP Christos Boukoros to the Minister of Health, concerning the exclusion of Volos Hospital from the ESDP programme, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Paul Polakis. Cause: workload. The tenth third under No 708/28-3-2016 topical question by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy Mr Christos Stakouras to the Minister of Health, on tackling the problems of the General Hospital of Lamia, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The first question by MP II of the New Democracy, Mr Gerasios Giakoumatos, to the Minister of Health, concerning the problems at the "Mandzavinateio" Hospital, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The second question by MP Attica of the Democratic Integration PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday (Evia) Christophilopoulou to the Minister of Health, concerning problems in the operation of the operating rooms of the Elefsina General Hospital of Thriasio, will not be discussed due to a blockade by the Minister. Finally, the eleventh question under number 996/14-6-2016 by the Independent Member of the Achaias Parliamentary Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, concerning the reading of the Gospel on the day of the Holy Spirit in Agia Sophia, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Ioannis Amanatidis. I won't comment. You don't have to. I'm sick of it now. Therefore, Mr Panagoulis, you have the floor for a minute, so that I can close the topical and urgent questions, and I would ask Mr Cremastinos to replace me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u104	Mr President, on 12 April I had tabled a question to the Minister of Finance, Mr Tsakalotos, on how much the representatives of the institutions, who were at the time and, possibly, still, are at HILTON. Mr Tsakalotos has declared himself to answer, as laid down in the Rules of Procedure, within twenty-fifth days. From there on, Mr President, a mockery of history has begun. Every week I put a topical question to the House, and Mr Chakalotos specifically informed my office at 9.30 a.m. this morning that he will not come, and for today's sitting late yesterday afternoon. Mr Tsakalotos, the instigator, Mr President, and the rapporteur of the infamous programme of Thessaloniki, ignores Parliament for the time being. I strongly protest, Mr President, because, as we have seen today, apart from the few ministers who have come to reply, most of them ignore Parliament. I protest and I would like you to convey to the President of this House that he must recommend to the ministers that they should be impeccable in their duties. Otherwise, let them go back to where they were before they became ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u105	And close, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u106	I'm closing, Mr. President. I will put the question to Mr Chakaloto again on Monday and if he does not come next week, I will also make an original, possible and protest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u107	I'm not saying it to comfort you, but up to the nine times that mine had been postponed for Mr. Kim Glenn, you have too much left. Four times has been postponed to you. The topical and urgent debate is closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY The debate will be taken at the No. 27/21/26-05-2016 timely question by the Secretary-General and President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece. Dimitrios Koutsoubas and Members of the party of Mr Alexas Papapegis, Athanasios Bardalis, Ioannis Giokas, Ioannis Deli, Garyfalias (Lianna) Kanella, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, Christos Katsotis, George Lambroulis, Diamantos Manolakos, Nikolaos Moraitis, Athanasios Palis, Konstantinos Steergios, Emmanouli Syngaki, Stavrou Tasssos to the Minister of Health, on the painful consequences of government policy on health. As I have been informed, the rapporteur for the Communist Party of Greece will be given the floor first, George Lambroulis and then the party secretary and President of the Parliamentary Group. Because I see that she is a speaker and Mrs Aleka Papagasa, if the Group agrees, and hers, she can follow Mr Koutsouba or in turn. As you wish. It's a matter of yours. Just let the Bureau know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u109	Before you begin your speech, Mr Lambroulis, I would like to comment on what Mr Panagulis said at the previous session of the House. We put it in the Conference of Presidents last time. Indeed, the President of Parliament, Mr Voutsis, took a position and said that he was not satisfied with the way in which the Ministers were present in the answers to Members' questions and that we would proceed to the old draft, that is to say, where the ministers would have a certain day to answer their questions as a whole, so that they too could arrange their cases, have no workload, no employment, etc. In fact, the highest rate of responses was at the time that this measure applied. So from the new parliamentary term this will probably be a fact and it will probably be the best solution to the problem in my view. Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u110	Let me tell you, Mr Cremastein, that this was discussed in the Conference of Presidents on a proposal from the President in particular and is for consideration. This has not been solved. Because we have the experience of this way of parliamentary control, that is to say that the ministers will come in specific days in the past and we have changed it again. Anyway, we'll see about that then.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u111	I carried what the President said. And he said that in the new parliamentary term this will become a reality. So that's not my point of view.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u112	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u113	Please, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u114	The tragic and dangerous situation in public health units, hospitals and health centres, as well as the acute problems of the people, with regard to the protection, promotion and safeguarding of their public health, are the results of specific anti-population policies, both before and after the current government of SYRIZA - ANEL. This policy also results from unemployment and semi-employment, the overthrow of fixed working hours, the deterioration of working conditions, the quality and quantity of food, the issue of housing, the exposure to harmful environmental factors, the huge economic bleeding experienced by peoples from the wild, as well as the absolute deterioration of the conditions and level of provision of public health services. This is a policy that gives birth to and reproduces the conditions and factors which lead directly and in the long term to the premature deterioration of the health of the people and to the deterioration of its standard of living. It is precisely in this policy that we are focusing our criticism of the confrontation and the consequences of its implementation to the people, unlike the other parties that accuse the government of lack of planning, incompetence or sloppyness, thereby covering up to accepting the anti-grassroots European strategy and health, but which, as a thread, penetrates all the parties, which of course compete on how to promote this anti-popular policy more effectively. In order to justify this strategic choice of support for the European Union's capital policy and to disorientate the people from this conscious choice in the exercise of the same anti-grassroots policy as the previous governments, propaganda appears to be forced by reason of the circumstances, the pressures, the blackmailing, not to be able to implement its own - as it says - policy. Thus, propaganda and the practice of the government, like previous governments, for households, cuts in waste, rationalisation of expenditure, have exactly the same effect on health, i.e. cuts in state insurance benefits, exam walls, increased insurance contributions, forced people to pay direct payments. But even if one theoretically accepts that waste or corruption is being treated, which is impossible in capitalism, because it is he who gives birth to it, that does not mean, at the same time, full and free provision from the state of modern medical and hospital care universally to the people. A characteristic example is the pharmaceutical cost. All the measures taken and continued, of course, were based on the argument of multi-pharmaceuticals, waste, business parties and other things that we have heard and heard, that is to say, so-called 'families'. Thus, cost rationalisation has led to a drastic reduction in state and insurance costs, while payments for medicines by patients were increased mid-weightly, from 9% in 2009 to around 30% today. And the government's coming and he's being seized for saving money. Why, then, do we say, do not make use of some of the savings of these resources, these money, to reduce the patient's involvement in medicines? Why don't you do it for those who don't have to pay when 60% of the chronic patients don't get their treatment properly? They're being treated or treated at all for some time, because they don't have to pay. Isn't that a real need? However, the government for propaganda invokes the real needs and says that those people's needs will be met, not the more than the more. Thus, in reality, state assistance is limited to a minimum level of health services for a part of the population, the weakest and most vulnerable, which is below the poverty line. You try to convince that the policy of crumbs is a step in addressing people's needs, aiming for the management and integration of the reactions on the one hand, highlighting the minimum benefits and the minimum requirements of the populace. In fact, when we criticise you on the occasion of public interventions or interventions here in Parliament, you are giving up on us. Really, where does SYRIZA - ANEL conflict differ from previous governments? For even the abolition of the EUR 5, for example, which was presented as an offer to the people - as if your people owed them! - does the people and pensioners not pay it multiplely with the new engravement of increasing insurance contributions to the health sector? Last September 2015, did you not introduce it and apply 4% withholding on basics and 6% with ancillarys? Even the insurance arrangements for uninsured people aren't paid for by the insured? Where does the State participate? He doesn't give a damn about it. And this by the government is being baptized, as the Minister and the government are proclaiming, namely paying the poor worker for the impoverished unemployed so that it does not cost the State and the entrepreneurs. So to those who have removed insurance rights to health, who have thrown them into unemployment the exploitive system, which you too are serving, or who grow from the resurrect, you are allegedly presenting them as an offer not to pay for medicines, provided that they do not have the misfortune to be rich incomes of 201 euros a month or more! Not paying insurers for medicines or whatever they need after all - down for their needs, is that unrealistic? This is the content and negative social fine for the people of the government's compensatory measure for uninsured people, since their costs are borne by the workers themselves and the unemployed. But you are not talking about the millions of people's families in the category of relative poverty, from which a large proportion of state and insurance benefits have been deducted. As you promote the national retirement of a bank - you have promoted it, you are now implementing it - with the recent law laundering, you also support the minimum state provision for health by increasing the payroll, i.e. who pays, will have health. This is why, at best, the famous universality and equal access propaganda applies to a minimum level of services far behind the needs of the people. When we say modern needs, we mean satisfying the needs of health in this regard, in relation to the enormous potential that today, in 2016, gives science, technology, numerous scientific and health staff, increasing productivity and not in 1950 and 1960, or even if you want to see it early in 2000. What universality and equal access does the government mention when preventive tests such as prenatal testing, tests on pregnant women (a) and (b) levels, cystic fibrosis tests or digital mammography, optic fields or vaccines are fully paid or when you, the SYRIZA-ANEL rule, maintain the reduction of the birth allowance that has been cut off by the previous neoliberal policy? The list, of course, is a long one with regard to the benefits that have been cut, as provided by the National Agency, we say no Health Services, but health Services cuts, the EEA. Does the same aim of reducing state and health insurance costs, moreover, not serve the primary health care network, as does the government, which presents it as a basic reform section in the health system? Indicative of this direction is also the pilot project. Government logic and primary care are moving not to meet the needs - general, specific needs - but to primary care services and, at the same time, not to prevent-prevention-oriented services, but all this is a cost to the state. Of course, it focuses on how state insurance will be curtailed through the family doctor, to ensure that the cost of the insurance fund does not exceed the limit of the cut-off budgets. The cost is according to government and epidemiological vigilance and the weakness of systematic recording, as well as the waste and luxury of recording and systematic epidemiological vigilance for influenza, while vaccination is the individual responsibility of each individual. An example of state absence and intervention is the crucial issue of the prevention of the health of workers from occupational risk. It is a situation that all workers, as well as public health services, are experiencing, as a result of the intensification of work and exhausting hours due to huge staff shortages. So, at the same time that there are huge shortages in personnel, more than thirty thousand, with closed beds in IF, closed surgery beds, huge shortages in nursing personnel, clinics and parts that break down or shut down, collapsing where it stands and where it is found projected the achievement of three and a half thousand hirings over time, which are not even the last pensions, but are replaced. Even these are still done on the basis of the cost of this reduction, since much of the recruitment is for subsidiary workers, for those with a block, because they are not charged with the state budget, since they are paid for by hospital revenue. That is why the government applies, above all, all the anti-labour laws that overthrow permanent and stable work, as well as unit movements to a health unit in order to ball like - the huge gaps from lack of staff. This situation has a tragic impact both on the workers themselves and on the patients, who are forced by the major shortages in public units to pay huge sums to private entrepreneurs and the large majority are troubled by the waiting lists, which are sometimes at the expense not only of their health but also of their own lives. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Not only is this enough, but the government, the Ministry of Health, the Minister for the first, even marginal, abatement of austerity in the public health system, because - says - in the first half of 2016, a higher percentage of state funding was paid than in 2015, while both years are the same, i.e. the rate rather than the hospital subsidy itself from the State budget of 2016 are better than from 2015. The point is, however, that the budget remains at austerity levels, as all the cuts made are maintained, resulting in shortages in staff, equipment, etc. You don't call that austerity retreat, but continue to austerity. In fact, the government is preparing to increase the operational costs of hospitals as an increase in state funding. What's hiding here? That the increase in operating expenditure will result from an increase in the payments of patients, whether directly or indirectly, from the insurance funds. The sparseness has no limits, since the government with the policy of active state sub-financing has enabled municipalities, for example, to finance hospitals, health centres. Do you really know a lot of municipalities that can afford them money when they too are underfunded or do they have no money? What are they gonna do? Those who have for some reason some revenue from either tourism or, for example, in western Macedonia from PPC, may finance some holes. Where are the others going to get them? Where will they find them? Either they 'grave' the people, i.e. impose compensation fees, or the health units will go all the way, while, of course, intensify the diversification of health units from region to region to health services. On the basis of the above, therefore, the Government calls on the people to be patient in accepting sacrifices and not to face up to serious health problems, in order to take development measures to stimulate competitiveness, namely the profitability of business groups. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] This growth criterion in favour of the government's business groups not only does not provide for loss recovery in people's health prevention and rehabilitation services, but also foresees a permanentisation of the dreadful and dangerous situation, since the health of the people is a cost to the capital and the urban state that supports it. Our people cannot expect high-level prevention services or reduce and eliminate the causes of diseases, with monopolies running the risk. That is why the conquests of science and technology in the health sector and the existence of a large number of qualified health staff cannot be exploited to satisfy modern folk needs in health, as long as they are subject to capitalist profit. Since, in fact, health issues do not stand by, the Communist Party calls on the people, in addition to fighting and demanding to ensure that the needs of health establishments are met with permanent staff for hospitals and health centers, the functioning of clinics and parts which they have closed, the full state funding of health units from the state budget, the abolition of all patient payments for health care, full medical care for uninsured people, unemployed people, and their families, while abolishing business activity in the health sector and racing an exclusively free system of health care developed centrally. At the same time, we call on the people to create those political and social conditions for a path to the development of production and the economy, where at the heart of it will be to satisfy the ever-growing people's needs and health. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis. Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the first rapporteur is speaking for ten minutes and with regard to all the others, most of them speak for five minutes and the last two of three minutes in the prototype. Secondary is five minutes, three minutes, three minutes and two minutes. I say that, so that we can understand the times. Here, Mr. Kutsuba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, these major problems that today arise in the timely question of the JRC's health need to be discussed, how do we organise the struggle to get out of this climate that is constantly bleaking the people, that is, the many accumulated problems faced by the people for the restoration of their health, the problems of tax burdens for the people, the ravages, the hunting of tax, HRBIA, the towel now of the EPHR, the reduction of income and pensions, the closure of businesses, the redundancy, the redundancy, the whole anti-population policy of all these governments and, above all, the New Democracy and PASOK, which is still under way in the current SYRIZA - ANEL government. These are only some of the problems that the JRC has consistently raised in Parliament and not the waste of time - to allow me - and the endless debates on electoral laws and constitutional revisions. As soon as one government comes after another, it's changing these again and 'though from the beginning'. I mean, we should be at work. Ladies and gentlemen, the health sector is squeezing. The workers on it have exceeded their limits. Workers as a whole, the unemployed, professionals, farmers, pensioners, people's families literally faint in the hallways of hospitals to take a series of tests that most of the time are paid out of their pockets and in public hospitals. Pensioners can't afford to pay their basic medicines. We do not claim that it is the current government alone that is for all the evils of the fate of health. We are fully aware that all the factors which make up the disastrous health situation - such as the reduction of state funding, the shortage of staff, infrastructure and equipment, the increase in payments totalling have led to a deterioration in health care - have been gradually implemented by all the governments so far. That is what the current government continues to do. Its own health policy is in the same strategic direction as the previous ones, namely support for business groups, profitability. These are leading to a reduction in government funding, an increase in payments by patients, in wage and work sanitation. The difficulties that exist objectively in the urban state, in this system, also because of the economic capitalist crisis, cannot be adopted by the workers, to waive their claim and to satisfy their basic needs. It is not a problem for workers to re-elevate the profits of the groups and the few. Workers have paid too much in the years of crisis and previous development. The private capitalists, the bourgeois state, the governments took them out. That's enough, they can't take it anymore! Nowadays medical science, research, medicine, innovation have reached incredible potential. Only to think that many unknown to some decades ago have been diagnosed, studied, and many are already treatable or even fully healable by using appropriate methods and medicines, while others are prevented or eliminated from vaccination. All of this contributed to increasing the average life expectancy, reducing mortality from illness, such as AIDS, cardiac and strokes, cancer, children's diseases, some even drastically. And yet, at the same time, thousands of people are still dying of diseases that science can control, or have already placed them in developed states, confronting their spreading or even dealing with them completely. Diseases that had disappeared, recur, such as tuberculosis, malaria, infectious diseases, even in economically developed countries. Millions of people around the world are deprived of even elementary health and drug services. Children die because they have not been vaccinated for specific diseases, although long-term persistent scientific research has led to the discovery of appropriate vaccines. All this is true of the simple reason, which is a crime, that research, health, science and medicine are subject to the objective of obtaining greater profits on the part of the major interests of monopolies. The most important criterion for promoting innovation research and development in this capitalist economy is to ensure maximum profit. This is why the groups invest there, except that they expect more profit margins, leaving other sectors. In this self-profit design they want their ally and your state and governments, both in Greece and in Europe. In fact, this year, more than eighty pharmaceutical and diagnostic companies from around the world signed a declaration in the World Economic Forum in Davos in order to continue any research on new antibiotics and to combat multi-resistance, direct or indirect state funding. This is the time-consuming support for entrepreneurs, including in the field of research and innovation, by the State for activities that have not yet become profitable for capital. This is the case in the field of preventive medicine, which is crucial to the promotion and protection of health, the improvement of the quality of life of our people. However, because it is not considered a first priority for the needs - that is, for the profits of capital, to be explained - despite any theoretical declarations, promises, etc., they are actually geared to the management of diseases and their consequences rather than to their prevention. Where some research is carried out, this is only where the increase in capitalist profitability is ensured. Many times drugs are withdrawn from the circulation, because the necessary profitability conditions for industries are not guaranteed, depriving the people of the opportunity to deal with diseases that can be cured. You will probably remember the example of the drug that was withdrawn from circulation because it did not produce the expected profits for companies, since the patients who took it were basically fatal Africans and could not buy it. It was about the disease caused by the chess fly. It is not so much about Greece, but it shows the spirit and perception of these issues. After a few years, it was found that the local use of this same medicine helps to combat increasing hair genius in women and the company itself took it back into circulation. Overall, the people are forced to pay more and more for the use of treatments, health services, the purchase of medicines, while an even greater part of the population is lacking, because of economic weakness, innovative, but even more simple medicines, treatments, health services, etc. This situation is not only happening in underdeveloped countries, such as Africa and Asia, but also in our country, Europe and the most developed capitalist countries. Ladies and gentlemen, our disagreement in addition to the individual, is based on our overall conceived and radically different concept of a JRC on how health should function for the people. We have huge experience of exploiting the socialism we have known in the twentieth century, which does not question, at least in this area, its most fanatical wars. How could they, after they themselves, have healed their own family members several times in these countries? For example, the prevention sector is a primary and essential object of socialist health research. In our understanding, prevention is not only related to the development of a vaccine that prevents the occurrence of a disease, but also to a set of different factors, which are in a dialectical interaction both with each other and with the man who will manifest this disease. With the planned and integrated intervention in the whole of these factors, such as the environment, nutrition, housing, free time, entertainment, culture, sport, the exercise and through the direct interconnection of many and different sectors, such as state institutions, educational institutions, research institutes, and research institutes, health and prevention issues need to be approached wholeheartedly, to lead all this together to a substantial improvement in the level of life, the health of the people, the increase in life expectancy and go by saying. Under conditions of such a socialist economy, all areas - and scientific research and innovation and health - can be developed - integrated into state and free health services - welfare through health centres, regional hospitals, welfare units and hospitals. They can also function and be supported by adequate staffing of all units with medical, nursing and other personnel, directed - in addition to preventing, treating diseases and restoring - and in the field of emergency medicine relating to accidents and natural disasters caused by fires, earthquakes, floods and the establishment of units in mountain and insular areas. In the health sector, it also appears the prologue, social, political, economic proposal of the JRC, that in order to satisfy modern popular needs and health and medicine, for the development of research and technology to the benefit of the people, radically different relationships of ownership and production are required, i.e. social property relationships, scientific central planning, with the sole guide to satisfying people's needs. This should include today's proposals for immediate relief and decongestion of hospitals, with recruitment of medical and nursing staff, with infrastructure, medical equipment, medicines, with a generous increase in state funding, etc. In this fight, we call on all workers and scientific bodies - especially doctors and nurses - to fight together, of course, in an alliance with working class and other people's strata, to deposit all sacrifices and daily efforts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President. Please, Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor under the Rules of Procedure for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. I'm gonna use dentistry as well. At the informal meeting of the Ministers for Health of the European Union, Minister, you said that the medicine is not a mere commercial product, but it is a major social asset. And yet, there are great increases in the drugs that patients pay for. Even uninsured people pay participation. Those with a monthly income of EUR 201 are excluded. A great deal of galantomy, when the medicine is essential for dealing with problems and for restoring health, and everyone must, without any hindrance, have full and free medical care. Just because it is a commodity in the capitalist way of production, this basic need cannot be met. It was also said that 60% did not receive his treatment properly, 17.5% was stopping medicinal products for cholesterol. These are some of the consequences of the cost criterion on the health care of the people, in which it shapes its policy and the current government, like the former ones. We have an increase in the share of the insured person in the medicines when, at the same time, you are cutting down on the low pensioner, which accounts for 35% of his income. You have increased insurance contributions to the pensioners' health sector to 6% on main and supplementary pensions, which corresponds to a multiple charge of EUR 5, which you have abolished, and you have made it a flag. That's why poor people are cutting off basic needs, just like the medicine. In addition, the third memorandum provides for the EEAS until 2018 to have reduced expenditure. At the same time, you kept the euro’s carpet per recipe, reducing the insurance prices, increasing the negative list medicines and the unprescribed ones paid 100%. All this is in the direction of the implementation of the Euro-Union policy, which was implemented by the New Democracy and the PASOK, and you continue with it. In other words, a reduction in State participation and in insurance funds, which actually paid less by 57.5%, while the insured by 43%. All about drugs. Also, the patients paid out of their pockets for medicines that are not compensated by the insurance funds, by 14.5% more. Therefore, the arguments for rationalisation of costs, a waste hit are for achieving the target of reducing state and insurance costs to the drug. You are doing so successfully, because this is linked and requires competitiveness and the profitability of capital. That is why the people's demand for a free medicine and a free public health system cannot be considered in the government's policy. The mechanism of strict control, moreover, and monitoring the demand for hospital medicinal products, reduces the overall hospital medical costs for the State and the insurance funds, while there are risks of a lack of medicine. These are mainly high-cost medicines, involving severe chronic or rare diseases, for cancer patients. And you know, 28% of the cancer patients don't have access to his medications. 60% of chronic patients don't get his treatment. Of course, in these, the European Union expresses hypocritical concern, since a number of social indicators reflect the deterioration of the living conditions and health levels of the peoples of Europe. However, her pro-monopoly policy cuts welfare benefits, excludes part of the popular strata from these services to generate profit for the capitalist. For the people, the pragmatic and necessary is to provide medicines to everyone, absolutely free of charge. Priority must be given to those who have joined the humanitarian crisis programme, to the chronic suffering, to cancer patients and to the disabled. Any participation in medicines must be immediately abolished, but also in the charisma of one euro per prescription and all lists removed. All medicines must be prescribed under exclusively scientific criteria by doctors and compensated by the EEAH with state funding. The VAT on medicines has to be abolished. And because the acute problems cannot wait, it must be alarming against the present terrible situation, to make the health of the people a matter of every primary union, federation, labour centre. Because the class choices of the government and of the European Union are overturned only by a class struggle, against and in breach of capitalists and their authority. Finally, I would like to say that it is hopeful that most of the moves have been made for health, but most of the topical questions too. But, Minister, you should respond to the timeliness. And today was postponed our timeline for the problems of the anticancer hospital "Metaxas". The problems are acute and they are the only anticancer in West Attica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u119	Thank you very much, Mrs Manolakou. Mrs. Papariga, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u120	Is the dialogue over?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u121	Please, no interactive discussion. Mrs. Pappiga's speaking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, I read with great interest your speech at the ECONOMIST conference. And I thought it was the right ministry and the right Minister at the right conference. This is - and it is not only symbolic - a very great proof that in the conference where various investors had gathered together and discussed investment in Greece, the Minister of Health has also gone to say the programme of the Ministry of Health. What does that prove? That the health sector is a big fillet. It's not a new fillet. It was before. It's not a fillet now. There are studies of the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and Davos. At the last Davos Summit - not the one Mr Mitsotakis went to, but the one Mr Tsipras went to - there was a lot of discussion that the health sector is an area that will attract too many investments and has been linked to the recovery of the global economy, to productivity, to competitiveness. In fact, studies had also been carried out at that Davos Summit, showing, however, that jobs in the health sector would be reduced in the fifteen more developed capitalist countries. This sector - from its birth, to capitalism, of course, I am not saying that it has now happened - is surrounded by the production of tools, machinery, medicines, etc. In other words, he is dived into what we call industrial production, trade and profit. Even if it is not called a National Health System, but a social state - whatever this area has been called - the criterion is that this sector, especially in recent years - do you want me to say in the 20th and 21st century? - it has proved to be an area that has - it may also be an exaggeration of what I am about to say - an increase in profitability similar to that which is comparable to that which the industry and the arms trade have. Certainly, throughout the earth and Greece, there are people, by millions, more informed, more sensitive. And if you want, this industrial production of tools, medicines etc. objectively creates the conditions to raise life expectancy, to prevent, to give birth to stronger children. There's a lot of interest and sensitivity. And there, you, Minister, have spoken just like that. Health, as an economic sector, investment, etc. Is this speech characteristic and I consider it - how can I tell you? - and the abstraction. The fact is that you have received an area that has been on a poverty path for many years before the crisis. Beware, however, once we have the capitalist economic crisis, we have the memoranda and generally all the European Union's specifications and directions, it has been on an automatic poverty pilot. Even a family doctor, set up by you in primary health care, will act as the automatic cutter. I mean, depending on what you've got, you're cutting. It will be the family doctor, as analysed in the two-day workshop organized by the Ministry of Health for primary care. He's a cutter. But I will tell you: if, for example, you want to make large areas of health, in the direction of, say, having people's health - you cannot do or you are in a position to do, but in any case - I would tell you to start with something, which, after all, at the bottom - has no cost - certainly has a cost - from research. To tell us, is there research in Greece, of course, linked to international research - are we not talking about an enclosed area - that catches occupational diseases? There are occupational diseases. No research is going on about them. Also, is there research on autoimmune diseases, a series of old and new diseases? And again, I say, research in terms of international cooperation - and use everything - free of charge, however, from the research commissioned by the pharmaceutical and medical industries. We are talking about research, carried out by the Ministry of Health, by the universities, which will enter the service of the whole. Research into diseases and medicine is being done. With what aim? Where they consider a disease to be costing the insurance system - I have in mind rheumatoid arthritis in the United States - research is being carried out, because it says it costs too much. But what's going on? The results of the survey judge them as follows: Will I have quick depreciation of the cost of the investigation? Am I going to move the product quickly? Will I quickly sell the product? What if it takes twenty years of investigation? This investigation is not considered to be directly profitable. There is a list of diseases in which collective research is carried out. And its results go everywhere, since primary care in hospitals - I don't know, depending on what one is investigating - even with a view to years, even without the expiry date of the investigation. Here, on New Democracy, heavy and unhealthy allowances were abolished, without a scientific finding saying that this profession was 50 years ago heavy or unhealthy, or both, but now because of technology, it has ceased to be. Then we too should sign the allowance. That's not what happened. It was made clear for reasons of cost, benefits, limiting State costs. What has been reduced over New Democracy and PASOK - and you continue it - such as physico-therapies, bath therapy, a series of preventive tests, prenatal or postnatal tests for children, says "necessary". They said, for example, that the woman should make mammography from forty or fifty years later, or that she should do every two years or every year. I don't go into details or we're gonna waste time. That's what you know. All these cuts were based on an investigation that said "You know, these phenomena have been overtaken"? I was told in the Anticancer "Saint Savvas" that the average woman with breast cancer has descended. Once you'd find three, four times a year twenty-five years old girls with breast cancer, and now it can come in one week. Is climate change, the environment, multifactorial? It could be a thousand two. We agree to change the specifications, to change the protocols. On what criterion, though? Definitely not according to the Memorandum. In the 1960s, pregnant women - I remember it, because I have my personal experience - we did an examination, Mediterranean anemia, the stigma. Nothing else. Today, there is a whole list that I was rereading yesterday. It's fifteen tests before and after the fetus was born. Cystic fibrosis. It's a large percentage - I lost them - children born with cystic fibrosis. The examination must be carried out, which costs. That's not what you're bringing. In the field of science, that is to say, science is primarily in need of it. Finally, the very characteristic. What the government puts forward in its programme, the "new productive model", as it says, and the Ministry of Health, are two things, which show the purely speculative and commercial character, which is not relevant to collective folk needs. Physical tourism and medically assisted reproduction. You know - for the second speaking - in Greece it's a more relaxed context. Many women from Germany come to stay pregnant in Greece, because that's where they're very strict. These, of course, are paid. Secondly, as far as health tourism is concerned, we have seven hundred and twenty thermal sources. Of these certified are the hundred and eleven or eighteen. I don't remember exactly the number. In Greece we have this great advantage, the thermal sources. They don't take any pills, drugs, chemicals - to relieve those who have musculoskeletal problems, etc. These are now taken by the HICP and sells medical sources. Medical tourism is about the five-star hotels, the money they're going to take a vacation, they're going to do dialysis hotels, they're gonna do physico-therapies, etc. Those who have musculoskeletal problems - there are too many and 80% are women, for χ, for reasons, I will not analyse them - are cut. It says ten physico-therapies one semester and ten another. First you went three and four times a year. What scientist said that instead of four times, you're going two? You had to do in the spring, in the fall, depending on what you got. These are treatments. I don't put drugs in my stomach, and I'm drinking, you know, chemicals. Therefore, we have said about health tourism and medically assisted reproduction. What do they look like? You have received a system that is poor and you will make it poorer. You have received a system that produces profits and as much as this system generates profits, the people have fewer social benefits. Finally, I will repeat what has been said by the previous speaker of the Communist Party of Greece. You say that we will make a system of parity, that is, the poor will pay the impoverished. You have cut the five euros, and not only have you raised 6% of health contributions, but you have also put them in subsidiary.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u123	In both the main and the adjuncts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u124	And the subsidiary. I mean, we pay what we put in our pocket. We pay health contributions and we've got less and less. Cut one, cut the other one. EEAY tells you he won't accept. Now there are physiotherapists, which are not even paid, because the physiotherapists are basically in the hands of individuals. The EEA is not paying for it, and the other one says to you: "I'm sorry, I can't, give something." That's how you give 'black' because he can't collect 'em. These are things that live millions of people. You don't have to be a doctor or a scientist or a reader. But, in any case, five things could not be done on the basis of the left-hand concept that you say? Hey, no! The automatic pilot of the further impoverishment and profitability of producers, tools, machinery, etc., we cannot tolerate him. Finally, because you are also talking about health addiction, as you said at ECONOMIST, health moralisation is not done at all. The services must be free and the tail abolished. Two conditions are needed, because diseases, and the most honest man, are putting pressure on them. We therefore need free services and the abolition of the tail. Then the health sector can be moralized. Otherwise, corruption will go deeper in this area, and good people and honest ones will be ruined, even further. Complete the work in the House, for some who have some movement problems, such as bars in the stairs. Do that, too. We're not all 100% good. We have some problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u125	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pappigga. Mr. Delis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, anti-grassroots health policy is continuing and deepened by SYRIZA - ANEL coexistence. It is not at all strange when this policy implements the strategy of the European Union and of capital in health, a strategy that the parties on the capitalist path of development are accepting and implementing, and that is exactly what was reflected in your vote in the third memorandum. According to this strategy, workers and their health needs are costs, which must be reduced, so as not to prevent ever greater support for business groups, their competitiveness, i.e. their profitability. It is the so-called non-wage cost, as is characterised by the European Union, which is compressed everywhere, in all capitalist countries, just like wage costs, in order to bring capitalist profits to light. That is why governments - and yours - are constantly looking for ways of charging this cost to the people's backs, since the state usually does not find money for the people's needs, but when it comes to the needs of capital, it always has the way. So in capitalist Greece, the health of the people's families is being treated and evolving into goods that are more expensive, more and more unaccountable. As a social asset, health is dealt with and is only in socialist society, and that is why only there can be given equal and free of charge to all. So the European Union's strategy! Here, what your Government applies to health. That's why it's constantly reducing the state's funding for people's health. This is why infrastructure and medical equipment are missing or not operating in hospitals. That's why patients are growing up and growing up. That's why sanitarians fight for work and wages. Here, because they are recruited mainly by subsidiary, with the block, after being paid for by the hospital revenue. And all this, please, in the public health system, which, under the public shell, works more and more in business terms and, furthermore, as a messenger to its private traders. The strategy implemented is not new. Its implementation has started since the 1990s, without any crisis or memoranda. At that time, the reduction of free benefits, the payroll and the overthrow of labour relations began. And that is a challenge, to justify the so-called 'we have received chaos', 'we do everything we can in a suffocating context', when you are now implementing this strategy. And so, you, together with the previous ones, have come to fund health with just EUR 1.4 billion, frozen and this by 2018, and once that sum is saved from the cutter you voted for, if the budgetary targets are not taken care of. This is how hospitals arrived to be subsidised by the state by 60% less in 2016 than in 2009, charging the extras and the cost of expensive medicines, which the EEAY had to cover until last year. In order not to remember the removal of their cash available last year, to pay the creditors, who have absolute priority for you, and not the people's needs. So you've reached the ICUs to stay closed, two hundred and twenty beds, or one/3. You have reached the point that hospitals are surrounded by contractors, who are fired whenever they want, as yesterday in the 'Evangelism', where they fired two employees, having thirty thousand staff shortages, making the working conditions of the workers exhaustive and the patients either to pay - those who have and who have - huge sums to individuals, or the majority to be troubled with endless waiting lists, at the expense of their health and several times at the expense of their lives. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr. President. Not to talk about prison hospitals in disgusting situations, a real shame! People are also prisoners and they have a right to health too. So you reached the prevention of speaking and forced parents to pay expensively for prenatal control and several vaccines of their children. As for primary health care, which is presented as a reform section and only the abandonment of the health centers and multimedical hospitals of the EEA that are empty from staff reveal you. In fact, for what primary health care do you talk about, when in twenty-three prefectures in the country there is no pediatrician at the PEDY nor even symbolized with EOPY, as are doctors of other specialties, when doctors at the PEDY are at least 50% less than 2014? And don't tell us about the Patras reference unit, a half-developed health centre called to cover the health needs of a city with over two hundred thousand inhabitants. The fact that it is an anti-popular reform, which you want to extend throughout the country, is seen by the fact that a single pediatrician will be faced with the on-calls of all the children of this city and a gynecologist on the morning shift will be there for Patras. In short, your policy is summarized in the phrase "the minimum health package for everyone" and from there on, whoever has money can. However, health is not guaranteed by the minimum, but by the necessary. And this necessary, which does not exist in your policy, will finally be imposed by our people with their struggle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr. Delis. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you have heard the complaint about the two redundancies in the "Evangelism" by the contractor "ARIADNI". It was after the mobilisation that they had to pay for their jobs and we would ask you to intervene immediately in order to withdraw redundancies and to pay the workers from the contractor until this issue has been dealt with. I wanted to deal with the uninsured issue. The question of health, with all its aspects, concerns every human being who lives in this country. It is the highest good, which is linked to life itself, so it should be at the service of people, with every scientific and technological achievement, fully upgraded and exclusively public and free of charge. That is what we have to say, that it was only in the socialism that we knew. In the capitalist system, especially after the overthrows of socialism, health has evolved into an expensive commodity. Otherwise, the worker faces the disease, or the businessman. Otherwise, the worker, or the unemployed. Otherwise, the insured person, or the uninsured one. The government's policy on health serves the budgetary objectives and investment of the capitalists for new areas of profitability. The guidelines of the European Union, the memoranda of the anti-government and reinsurance measures that you are implementing, which, finally, do not lead to the widespread poverty of our people, to a large rate of unemployment - and to a great increase in long-term unemployment. The working people's movement, with constant interventions in hospitals and other health structures, required and required free care for uninsured people. Any arrangements for the health coverage of uninsured persons are the result of the struggles of the trade unions, the people's committees, the workers in their hospitals and unions. The Government puts forward these rules as a measure with a left-hand mark. However, it is this government's policy that extends poverty, the impoverishment of the people, that sends thousands of workers to unemployment and black employment, and it removes sickness books. The arrangements give any care to the uninsured, paid by the insured since the state budget does not participate. Expenditure is charged to the EEA, i.e. to the insurance funds, i.e. to the workers. Uninsured people are unemployed, victims of capital policy. You're asking them to pay for participations, carpets and others, like those insured for exams, medications, treatments. Only those with an individual monthly income of up to EUR 200 will not pay a contribution to the pharmaceutical expenditure, that is, a small part of the impoverished people. The public hospitals, which have to operate on a profit basis, will make the import criteria more stringent in order to reduce costs and without the three-member committees that have been abolished. Example? We do. They're the ones with a welfare booklet. Many cases, Mr Minister, are not accepted in university hospitals because they are not financed by the state for this. Uninsured persons shall only be covered in public health establishments under the conditions laid down in the EORI Regulation. Only on a case-by-case basis, when the public sector is certified, and by decision of the Minister, they will be covered by the private sector. In a private clinic enclosed with the EEAS they will pay normally. I am passing along, private health workers today are on strike. We are in favour of denouncing the employer's and the OMED, which accepted the requirement of employers to abolish their five-day and reduce their wages, to consolidate the separation of young and old workers, and we support their request to sign a collective agreement with increases in wages. Also, uninsured people will not be able to go to the contracted doctors with the EEA. They will go to the units of PEDY, which are huge and complete lack of doctors and specialists, in public hospitals, which are hugely waiting lists for mornings for free appointments. To be able to deal with health problems in time, they will be forced to pay if they have. They'll pay for the full service, materials, drugs that are not compensated by the EOPY. That figure is constantly growing. The uninsured is unemployed. How will he pay, Minister? Uninsured, chronic suffering from systematic monthly medication, with frequent tests and treatments, as well as materials, how will they pay for their participation? Many will be forced not to carry out the treatment at all. You are using the government measure of exemptions from payments when their state of health is getting worse. The exceptions are made on the basis of income, family and property criteria, as well as with a disability of more than 67% and certain categories of chronic sufferers are, again, made on the same criteria, but with an increased income criterion. The zero contribution shall apply to a very small number of uninsured, with or without disability, because they must meet all three conditions provided for in: Firstly, they should not exceed the annual income, which is for the person 2,400, that is, 200 euros per month, 4,800 for a four-member family, i.e. 400 euros per month, 6,000 for individual HEIs, that is, 500 euros per month and 9,600 euros for a four-member family of HEIs, that is, 800 euros. Secondly, the taxable value of the property on the individual should not exceed 150,000, with 15 000 for each protected member. In other words, an uninsured uninsured, Minister, property of main residence and a patronage in his village will be excluded from zero participation. And these are too many cases, Minister. Thirdly, the total amount of bank deposits, he says, should not exceed three times the annual income. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Excludes payments for medicines some categories, such as minors up to eighteen years old, hosted in social welfare structures, healing structures, prisoners, refugees, and others. For those uninsured only have private insurance, it provides for the use of public health units only in cases of emergency health problems. And those who went to make a cheap contract, that is, they were smuggled in a few words. The government, like the civil management parties, also moves to health in the logic of costs, which constantly reduces to meet the requirement of capital for sustainable state funding. This will lead to bigger deadlocks, worsening the health situation. For the People's Movement, the struggle to overthrow this policy as a whole takes precedence, to demand full state funding for health, without any participation for everyone and without conditions, health and pharmaceutical coverage for the whole population.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr Katsotis. The last two speakers in the Rules of Procedure speak three minutes. Please, Mr. Synthraki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. I'll take my dentistry, too. The aim is to promote reactive restructuring in critical social sectors, such as health, based on the OECD guidelines, of the Europe 2020 strategy. In order to implement these policies, however, the Government is preparing an appropriate favourable investment environment for business groups, the necessary institutional framework for all levels of health. This objective is served by the draft law under consultation on administrative reform of mental health services. It is also clear from the European Union's staff that mental health problems are a source of loss of productivity and an increasing trend in retirement. This is the essence of aspirations for mental health, in general for health. Step by step of the freight operation where at a lower cost for the capital and its state, the necessary level of health as a condition for the reproduction of the labour force will be ensured. The Government accepts the policy of privatisation, the closure of public special psychiatric hospitals and the fragmentation of mental health structures, as did the previous governments of New Democracy and PASOK with Law 2716/99 on psychiatric reform, leading to the exclusion of sufferers from the prevention, treatment and rehabilitation. So it explains why for 15 years the Coalition then, SYRIZA, supported "SYCHARGIS", which was the epitome of the European Union in mental health, based on the well-being of individuals in the field, with NGOs, patients and relatives, hostels and boarding houses of individuals with state money, bed-reduction, strengthening scientific research by private individuals, awarding primary health care to private health centers. That's why he failed. It is admitted, moreover, by the European Union's own reports on the evaluation of ‘SYCHARGE’. The JRC then disagreed and resisted the closure of public hospitals. Not even the major psychiatric hospitals have been shut down today - after all, where are so many patients going to go? - nor has a single primary health care system been developed, with state mental health centres, pediatric services, specialist staff, modern privileged structures, similar institutions of mental deprivation, special schools for disabled people, whose situation is tragic. Today, they operate almost only in private, expensive and controversial circumstances. In Heraklion, for example, the best structure is that of the Church, which costs about 1,200 euros a month. The policy, based on precarious programs and the so-called social economy, therefore has an end date, such as, for example, the Paedophiliac at Heraklion University Hospital, the seven psychodiagnostic centers that support the healing people with dual diagnosis, mobile units, private individuals, usually, publicly funded with COMPAs, who will never survive. Paedophiliac in Heraklion, of course, is necessary. It is the only one in the South Aegean, but it is a expiry date, as is the psychodiagnostic centers throughout the country, which support people with a double diagnosis. The workers are on a block and their contracts end in September. The election promises of the Prime Minister in Heraklion, Crete, in the last elections, for a permanent statement of positions in Paedophilia to operate on a permanent basis, was of course an empty shirt. Overall, there is a shortage of structures and psychiatric clinics across the country. In Crete there is only PPAGNI, while structures in Lasithi, Chania, Rethymnon, dehydrated, unable to serve the increasing needs daily, since mental health is becoming more and more important. But your bill goes one step further. It now places the administrative, institutional role of business and NGOs, especially in paedophiliac services. It strengthens the private business activity and the contributive nature of these services from the public sector units. The proposed administrative organisation of mental health services and the bodies set up - sectoral scientific committees, regional administrations, mental health sectors, regional local councils - will be the new tools for implementing reactionary changes in mental health. The role of the private sector is upgraded by participation in local scientific committees, while the state's executive role remains purely management, since your policy does not allow for a radical response to the problems. In this respect, therefore, the JRC does not lie with the Government for incompetence, for lack of planning, as other parties like to cover up the common strategic partnership or for who promotes anti-grass policy more effectively. The JRC's opposition to the policy applied concerns substance. For the JRC health is a social asset, it's not a merchandise, it's not a deal. That is why his proposal is the single, modern, exclusively state, free-of-the-art health system, with centralised planning, fully and adequately financed by the state budget, with the abolition of all kinds of business, with full-time permanent staff, without flexible labour relations, which are generally blocked by blocks, contractors, subsidiary workers, individual and state contractors. For the JRC, structures of mental health must form part of a single, free state health and welfare system financed by the state budget. From that point on, this presupposes all this for the people of another type of power, another kind of economy, based on labour control and central planning. That is why we call on the people not to rest, to claim self-evident, that is to say, that all the people have access to health. This requires struggle in an anti-monopoly, anti-capitalist direction, and only then can such developments be initiated. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u131	Thank you too, Mr. Synchronous. Mr. Tassos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u132	Mr President, I am also going to take my dentistry. Ladies and gentlemen, if the health situation is dramatic in mainland Greece, in the island - because of its geographical specificity - it is tragic. Submission and sub-financing that has existed continues and is worse every year since the policy and the SYRIZA Government - ANEL are moving on the same lines as the policy of previous governments to cut government expenditure, trade, privatisation and transfer of health expenditure to workers and people. According to the most recent data from the Hellenic Statistical Authority and the EEAS, the reduction of medical personnel in the North Aegean between 2013 and 2014 reached 20.9%, two to three times greater than any other region of the country. Similarly, the already incomplete nursing staff decreased by 1.5% in the North Aegean and 7.2% in the South Aegean, while the other staff decreased by 10.2% and 6.3%. Just yesterday they were fired by the Lesvos General Hospital, due to the end of their contract, a psychiatrist, a pathologist, a pneumonologist, and the dismissal, for the same reason, of a cardiologist. Corresponding to shortcomings in staff, means and state funding are the situation in hospitals, MEDIA doctors, health centers, the regional and rural hospitals of Limnos, Chios, Samos, Rhodes, as well as all the islands of the North and South Aegean. It would take hours to describe this situation in all the islands, a description in which neither you, I imagine, disagree. But you certainly disagree about your causes, your responsibilities and how to deal with these problems. It is the criminal policy of the current government of SYRIZA - ANEL, but also of the previous PASOKs and the New Democracy, as regards the functioning of public health units, which are the result of increasing competitiveness in the context of the capitalist way of development which, among other things, promotes the interests of business groups in the health sector by costing lives, quality of life, health and patient rehabilitation, and the health and life of workers. The measures you take to cut costs, to cut costs, to flexible working relationships, and so on, are added to the previous ones and act proliferatingly leading to further deterioration. How does the government respond to shortcomings in staff and government funding? With telemedicine, used as a tool to replace deficits and reduce state spending on health, medical and health tourism, which is projected by the European Union - Government - Euro-Romanian parties as one of the main areas that can contribute to the escape from the crisis and the recovery of the economy, as the great opportunity to put the country back on track for recovery. The question, of course, is not 'yes' or 'no' to telemedicine or 'yes' or 'no' to medical and health tourism, such as 'yes' or 'no' to the development of a health system. Is the issue a development of the health system with an incentive to strengthen business activity and the profitability of the private and state sectors by making use, in principle, of sufficient needs or development on the basis that health must be socially good and that the respective modern services must be absolutely free and meet the needs of the people where they live, work, study, sport, move permanently or temporarily? To exploit all modern scientific and technical means, accumulated knowledge, health and other staff on the basis of satisfying people's needs and not getting into the crisp of costs. In this context, we are also using telemedicine in a way that complements the provision of health services with positive results for patients and not as a substitute for shortages. In other words, telemedicine is integrated into fully developed, exclusively state and free health care services through health centres, regional hospitals, hospitals and welfare units, adequately trained with the necessary medical, nursing and other qualified personnel. To be highly targeted in the field of emergency medicine in the case of road accidents, the installation of EKA's telemedicine systems and units, natural disasters, fires, earthquakes and ships. And medical and health tourism must operate in the context of the full and integrated development of primary health care, with adequately equipped health centres and decentralised medical facilities, taking into account the great diffusion of islands and the multitude of mountainous areas in the country. This development also takes account of the needs of the population growth in the regions of the country due to domestic and external tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr. Tassos. The Minister of Health, Mr. Xanthos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u134	Ladies and gentlemen, I think that with the JRC's current topical question on the problems of public health, we have an opportunity to discuss the real bad reality of the public system, the inadequate uncovered needs of people, but above all to provide us with the information and explanations of how the government is dealing with these accumulated and time-consuming problems. First of all, I consider it very important that the JRC today through its Secretary-General, the Chairman of the Group's Parliamentary Group, has chosen to raise these issues. It is known that the political sensitivity and the racing consequence of this political space for claiming and promoting health problems are known. Let me say that the vision of a universal, public, free system that meets people's needs, without financial burden, is obviously also our vision. Unfortunately, however, our great political difference, ladies and gentlemen of the JRC, is that you are telling us that not only this memorial period, the period of austerity, the period of dominance of neoliberalism in Europe, that not only at this time can one expect nothing good and nothing better in the health field, but overall as long as the exploiting capitalist system is in place and as long as today's productive health remains a commodity, that it will never be possible to approach itself as a social asset. Let me really say that this is a respected political view, but it is an opinion which, firstly, ignores the critical parameters of the capitalist reality, which we are living in and in which we are striving to have a sustainable exit from the crisis in the interests of the weak and those affected by the measures of austerity, and which is also a policy, which, in my opinion, does not help, in my opinion, a social front, a coexistence of powers of the most honest, the most reliable, the most valid scientific forces that the health system has, in order to reclaim gradual improvement in everyday life, indeed to ensure the quality of the services in the world that it needs. I think that the crucial political question is whether, given the commitments made by the agreement, given the current financial framework, we can expect something better in the health sector. That is the political question. Inadequacies, shortcomings, gaps, uncovered needs are a common place and no one wants to question this image and much more to excite reality. So the question is whether we are staying in this context, if we look forward to a gradual even improvement in the situation. Our answer is absolutely unequivocal. Of course we can, and that is why we are in these positions. We're people of public care. We have fought to have a reliable public health system in our country. We have knowledge and experience and we are trying in cooperation with its human resources, which is indeed tired, troubled, exhausted - and working and wage-driven - to build a relationship of confidence, to signal that the period of conscious abandonment, depreciation and disorganisation of public care in previous years has ceased, that the functioning of the health system is now stabilised, that relief measures are being made for everyday life and public hospitals and, above all, for the citizens and that there is a radical reorganisation plan in this area. We all know very well that this has been a sector of time and a provocative of demand and waste and corruption and a transaction with interests and pluralism and partisanism and the exploitation of the disease. And with these time-consuming pathogens and distortions, we have no political reason to compromise and provide immunity. We are therefore told that we are continuing the same political dissolution of the health system. The reality on the economic level is unequivocally contradicting it. We have for the first time in 2016 the reversal of the ongoing cut in operating costs for the health system. From 1,388 billion that was the market threshold in 2015, this year is 1,634 billion. That's the truth. The state budget, the state grant from 1,025 went 1.156. We also increased the funds for primary care and from 115 million, we did 150 million. We have increased the allocation for subsidiary and subsidiary staff. In hospitals from 34 million, 60 million became. In the primary school of 12 million, it became 20 million. In addition, we have hired a thousand two hundred seventy-five auxiliary doctors since October 2015. We have unleashed three hundred fifty posts from old crises in 2008, 2009 and 2010 and signed three hundred fifty assignments. Of course, there is an attempt, because many years have elapsed since then and many of these colleagues have made other choices, many have been inside. This is a huge social problem, it is a major threat to the health system, to medical immigration, to the fact that at the moment seventeen thousand five hundred, usually of the best trained young doctors in our country are working on health systems abroad. We proceeded for the first time after six years in the recruitment of permanent staff. It was completed by the AACC and currently nine hundred eighty-five people are appointed. Of course, the figure is inadequate in relation to the huge accumulated needs, but it is a very important political signal, which is given to workers in public hospitals, that the period of continuous human resources leakage is ending and, slowly, we are moving into packages of intervention with either permanent staff or other working relationships. Of course, as we said at the outset, we will be using all the instruments, so that at this critical stage we can fill the most urgent gaps, even though the stability of the health system last year was at risk. It will be promoted now - it is in the Ministry of Labour and will soon go to the ADP - another thousand seven hundred posts of nurses and other paramedical staff. These are permanent positions. The three and a half thousand to which you referred are permanent positions and not in a long time, are within 2016. In this year's state budget there is provision for an additional three thousand four hundred forty-eight workers in the health system. We hire these days, after the procedural difficulty and effort to engage through CEDEFOP, five hundred doctors and nurses in Intensive Treatment Units. We cover a critical deficit and believe that the available beds will increase, especially at Attica's Lefkanos and we will end with the serious problem of the waiting list for intensive beds. They are being declared these days - it has been completed in most hospitals and fellow doctors are well aware of this - sixty-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-st-st-st-st-st-st-st. This has been happening since 2010. That is the truth, ladies and gentlemen. And it is also a strong signal that we are not only covering ancillary staff positions, which of course cover needs, but we are gradually promoting a plan that covers needs of the health system and gaps and in a permanent way. They've made dozens of applications in every place. This shows that it can really be that if the state gives way, the decent professional and scientific way out to young doctors, reverse this migration trend abroad, stop the shamefulness of our country Brain drain and young doctors being able to slowly - not in terms of wages and working conditions abroad, but with what our country can withstand at this time of crisis and budgetary narrowness - to help people have reliable care. We have, therefore, done much more than the five things Mrs Papayannakis has asked us to do. And above all we have made a very important cut: regulation for uninsured people. An intervention that has been pending for years. It already produces relief effects. It has already facilitated thousands of people in this two-month period that starts to apply, who have access to public hospitals for free, such as the insured, without filters, without bureaucratic obstacles, without the stress that they will have to pay, to censuse a debt declaration and transfer the debt to the tax office. This is an intervention, in my view, that has a strong ideological and political symbolism. For the first time, in essence, the idea that health is a social asset is implemented and that the state should provide it to everyone in an equal manner, regardless of work, regardless of insurance and regardless of income. So this is a progressive one, it is a left-wing policy, and this government is consistently promoting it, because, ladies and gentlemen, we know that society is weary. We know that citizens are dissatisfied by austerity measures, by the protracted charges, and that is why it is vital to have relief interventions in privileged areas, such as public care and the social state. That's where we have to invest. With the political choice of the government, this redistribution of resources has been made. We didn't give up any more money to give it to the health system. Last year, in a year of budgetary sluggishness, which in all the ministries was cut off, in the public care sector, 150 million euros were invested and a financial injection was made. So the hospitals were able to stay upright by the end of the year, supply basic materials, and this year we have a more stable function. With the change that we are promoting and ending at the level of the administration of the system, we really think that we are ensuring stability, the governance of the health system. This is where I open a parentheses. We must say that for the first time in a health system which was synonymous with the clientele, the vote and the party logic, administrations are chosen in a transparent and pragmatic way. Local communities know it, people know it. CVs are in "DENGY", they are in "DENMARK". They all know and see that people are not selected on the basis of their party identity and that we have chosen people from other political spaces...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u135	But you said it yourself!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u136	...people who haven't asked their party identity, but what we've taken into account, but they're their knowledge, their experience, their qualifications, the special studies they've done. This is the first time that this has been done in the health system. We know very well how the distribution was made in the past, known as 4-2-1, alphabetical lists, without moleculosis. It was set up and that is why this process was delayed. If we wanted to make a party state, as you were saying, and as some people will continue to say, in contrast to reality, this procedure would not last so long. Obviously, there is health inequality in the country, as there is in the world. The intervention of Ms. Pappigas on how the capitalist system, how the domination of capital in the health part, how the medical industrial complex produces innovation, produces new knowledge, new medical equipment, which cannot benefit from greater use by people, from countries, from societies, this is a reality. For us health inequality is not acceptable. We believe that the area of health really is a supply of needs, of rights and of a social redistribution area, where the organised state must redistribute resources in favour of the weak. To some extent this is what we are trying to do, redirecting public resources, such as social security resources in public structures. We've explained that several times. For the first time, the EEAS does not only buy services from the private sector. EOPY, in consultation with the government, allocates public resources to public primary care structures, PEDYs and health centers. He compensates the insured for the tests they do there for medical visits to monitor chronic illnesses. That is why we have chosen to have the commitment, the obligation to cover also the financing of access to uninsured people, precisely for a synergy of resources between social security and the State budget. We have a health system that the first sector, social security, currently has more resources. It has EUR 5.5 billion, while the state budget EUR 4.5 billion. This ratio cannot change automatically. We must gradually go to a more guaranteed funding than the state budget. That's what we think. But synergy with the insurance system is absolutely imperative today. The subject of the medicine is very critical. We have a closed budget for both foreign and hospital medicine. Obviously, the Utopia is demanding zero participation of people in all medicines and at all levels. This cannot be the case with the given budgets and with the specific budgetary objectives resulting from the agreement. What we have to do, and we do it systematically, is control demand. There is know-how on this, there is experience from the other countries and serious problems in this part. At the same time our country is spending a very large amount of money at the same time, disproportionately large with other countries in Europe to treat malignancies and rheumatoids because it has so far not organised a system of assessment of health technology and scientifically rational use of new, innovative and expensive medicines. What we did, then, is to set up for the first time a negotiating committee at the EEAS with a special subcommittee on medicine, which starts negotiation with multinationals for expensive medicines, such as hepatitis C drugs. On our own initiative, there is already the preparation of transnational cooperation, first of all, with five other countries in the European south, with the exception of Greece, to negotiate with large pharmaceutical companies, which have expensive and innovative medicines, so as to ensure that people can access what is produced as new know-how and as a new possibility for medicines that have a greater pharmaceutical benefit or even that eliminate certain diseases, but at the same time ensure the sustainability of the public health system. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I conclude, Mr President, by saying this: What I have presented is, in our view, another political project, which, as a genuine political priority, puts public care and the enormous health needs of the population, which have also deteriorated because of the crisis. I'm waiting to see what the other political plan is. The JRC has clearly developed it. It's social change, it's change in productive relations, it's popular power. I expect the neoliberal Opposition to tell us what its political plan is to address these uncovered needs. What exactly means "less state" to health, for example? Will you, ladies and gentlemen, be recruited if the people give you the opportunity? Will you fill the health system gaps? Will you, like us, increase the incentives for attracting the atrocious and island regions, which Mr Tassos rightly pointed out, their problems and their deficits? We, therefore, in these difficult circumstances, through a allocation of 1.5 million euros, restored the income of the offspring, amounting to 400 euros, and now they take three hundred regional doctors throughout the country in inshore islands and in difficult areas. We are therefore recovering losses that the health system has had and we cover gaps in a gradual and concrete way. We are trying to support - and we are doing so, I think - as far as possible with the help of the human resources involved in the operation of public structures. We are really fighting with time, with the strengths of people, with the strengths of workers in the health system. We are fighting, and with a system that is resisting, because there is this and we all know it, a system that has been passed by the public health system over the past few years and with this vision, with these political interventions, we think that we can achieve it in order to have a stable and more refined intervention in the field of public health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u137	The Communist Party of Greece, Mr Karathanasopoulos, from SYRIZA Mr Igoumenidis, from New Democracy Mr. Vroutsis, from Golden Dawn Mr. Koukoutsis, from the Democratic Assent of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Loverdos, from POTAMI Mr. Barriotas, from ANELs Mr. Papachristopoulos and from the Centroon Association Mrs. Everyone's gonna talk six minutes. Mr Karathanasopoulos, according to the Rules of Procedure, would speak 12 minutes, but because Mr Koutsoubas spoke - again under the Rules of Procedure - time is reduced to half. As a result, all the parliamentary representatives will speak for six minutes. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u138	I listened carefully, Minister. It is not a question of looking into your mirror and saying "what a beautiful vision, what a left policy I have in the field of health". The question is whether this vision, which you say is left, goes hand in hand with your actions. Here is the point that you are also a continuation in the health sector of previous policies. That's the first. Secondly, you cannot say that what the JRC says is unrealistic and that we need to adapt to the real circumstances. What do you say to the people? That the assumption of meeting all needs in health matters cannot be done, because that is how the needs of capital are protected, because that is how we have agreed with our lenders in the context of the memoranda. So you say 'adapt the needs to the requirements of capital'. So, what do you say to the people? To be self-sufficient, captured and not claim, not to require coverage and satisfaction in the health sector, based on the possibilities available, the objective capabilities set by science. We say that all the people should have public free health and should not be involved at all, that is to say, that the contribution for the health sector should be abolished and that it should be free for everyone, that access should be equal. That is what you consider to be an excessive, something unrealistic, on the basis of today's data. So let us accept that it is unrealistic. For the uninsured, what about the unemployed? Why do they have to pay, Minister? They have no income and they are treated with the same logic as the insured. Couldn't they be free? What do you have to do? To have an income of up to 200 euros a month, to have some benefits free of charge, not all of them? Because non-prescribed drugs will pay for them, just like those who take 200 euros. From this point of view, the most famous redistribution you say you're doing is a hole in the water. What redistribution did you do? The great feat that you say separates you from the other parties on the Euromonstrate, that is, that you secured the uninsured, you gave them medical care - and you presented it as a big achievement - who pays it? Does the state budget pay for it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u139	Of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u140	You're making money from the state budget to cover the uninsured? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, In other words, the insured themselves give the money with the insurance contributions to meet the needs of the uninsured. The state budget is not charged with this heading. Second matter. Did you make any exceptional contributions to the large capital, to the business groups, to cover these costs - why do you measure them all at the cost - of health care for uninsured people, so that you can even make one elementary redistribution? Oh, no. No special allocation. To pay an extraordinary contribution to industrialists, bankers and shipowners and this money to go to cover the health care of uninsured people. Oh, no. What did you say? The insured, whose wages you reduce, you reduce pensions, who make a health contribution to pensioners, will also pay for uninsured people. That's what you did. You have, in other words, made a redistribution between the fewer poorer layers than the poorest ones. This, a new division of poverty. From this point of view, we are saying this clearly, Mr Minister, and we want to respond to the challenge you have put to. We don't want to leave your question unanswered. The main question is, what is it, to be realistic? Can the situation in the health sector be improved in the given framework set out in the third memorandum, budgetary policy and objectives? Didn't you say that was the main question? We say no, it can't improve the state of health. Why can't it improve the state of health? Because, first of all, the health situation of a people depends on a number of conditions which are getting worse. Does the health situation of a people not depend on working conditions? Working conditions are irrelevant? When intensified and worsened working conditions will have a better level of health? When the people's living standards get worse, will they have better health conditions? When his living level gets worse, will he have better health conditions? We are therefore telling you that the state of health of the people and, of course, any minor changes you make will always be under the brunt of the success of the budgetary objectives, otherwise the budgetary cut will be activated. Because health expenditure has not been excluded from the budgetary cut - and you know it very well - and public spending, investment projects, development programmes, the capital-related expenditure has been excluded. Third matter. You cannot, with your policy, become a social asset and a social right. It can't be done because the other one's involved, he's paying. He pays for the health contribution, pays for the participation in medicine and tests, pays the 1 euro for the recipe, in every recipe. In the name of lowering non-wage costs you are increasing direct private funding and while public expenditure has fallen by over 35% in recent years, it has increased and reached 40% of private expenditure. It has exceeded 40%, about half as far as total health expenditure is concerned. What does that mean? Is that a social right? Is it a social right, Minister, or is it a merchandise? After all, it is a commodity and it will be traded even more, because with your health policy you are not questioning Euro-Union health policy. The third package of the European Union's health package adopted by the European Parliament in 2014 - you know that very well, Minister - would you not apply this from 2014 to 2020? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, with that. What does the third health package say? It says that health units must be sustainable, we must have sustainable health systems. So who determines what health units are to be developed and where? Their operating costs and not the needs and that these public health systems must operate in the sense of reciprocity and competitiveness, become competitively viable. What does that mean? It means, therefore, that the public health sector will operate under the same rules and criteria in the private sector. Secondly, where there is no great need based on the indicators you measure, how many births are made, there may be no need to be a gynecologist in a hospital. Let it make five hundred miles, two hundred kilometers, a hundred kilometers to go side by side to find a gynecologist and not that there is a need for a gynecologist permanently. In this respect, therefore, it determines the costs and not the needs. From this point of view, we are clearly saying that, with your policy, not only will you be facing it, you will not weaken health inequality, but you will even worsen it, and that the people must not adapt their requirements to the needs of capital, as you want to do, but you must also claim in the health sector to overthrow this policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Mr. Igoumenides, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin by commenting on the debate. I think it's an unprecedented process for me. I think that if there were any possibility for the other parties, apart from the questioning party, to participate in the debate with more than their parliamentary representative, the debate would have been more comprehensive. There could be a topic meeting of Parliament - to say this - which has the value of highlighting all sides of an issue. Ladies and gentlemen, I imagine that you have no objection - I say in particular to the questioners - to the effect that the results of the policies of the previous governments of the New Democracy and of the PASOK which we are experiencing today, have harmed the health of the citizens in a classic way. In relation to this policy, I would like to point out that we did not have a simple management with less resources due to budgetary constraints, but a conscious choice of shrinking public care. Thus, the National Health System today presents a picture of a bombed landscape. Health poverty, exclusion, inequality in care and social care have eroded fundamental human and social rights in our country. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that there is no room for this policy to continue. That is why, for us, it is unnecessarily necessary to support public care at all levels. The strategic goal of our Left and Government is to build a public health system that ensures free equal access, universal coverage of our people and has high quality services and controlled costs. This is not our objective because of some ideological obsession, but because it has been demonstrated internationally that, when they operate under rules and control, public health systems are greater in quality than in the final cost of services, but also in the fight against inequality in access. I would like to focus on some aspects of our programme, our objectives, our plans, the decisions and the issues to which the government is moving. As far as primary health care is concerned, in my opinion, no plan was ever fought so long before its appearance. I can't understand that. We consider the primary health care to be the foundation of the public health system and one side of it, the primary health care and public health in the large urban centres of our country, a side that is either now under-functioning or missing from the National Health System. We are promoting a new model based on family doctors, the health team - not only doctors - at local health establishments, neighborhood doctors and their reference units. Our objective is uniform, public, integrated, socially controlled primary health care for the whole population. The neighborhood doctors, local health establishments want to provide primary and secondary prevention services - vaccinations, health treatment, etc. - medical care for chronic illness and emergency, physical and social rehabilitation and care at home. This neighborhood medical system is completed by developing the reference units with one in principle design at its maximum number, one infirmary per five thousand inhabitants and one reference unit per five infirmities. You realise that this number, beyond the available resources, depends on many elements and aspects of coverage of the respective regions. At the same time, for the more efficient and effective functioning of this new system, from the patient's first contact with the neighborhood doctor, we are proposing the creation of an electronic health record, which will accompany the sick all the way to the public health system. We are prepared to proceed with such a health system in one of the areas in the Municipality of Malevici with twenty-five thousand inhabitants. We have proceeded, if you like, in cooperation with the local government about which and where doctors will be based on the health map, rather than on the basis of routine or customer-friendly criteria. The question and the question that arises for the reference unit is as follows: how many children does the region have, in which health establishments will determine and be obliged to organise their vaccination? How many are the pneumonoids or heart disease in the region, how many are the sugar-sweet people in the region, the people who units in 'neighbourhood hospitals' will take care of their vaccination, for example the anti-grain vaccine in winter? These figures have not been recorded and they are nowhere to be found. From the first "deducation services of the neighborhood" we will see what needs we have in specialties. By the time we solve this problem, we can rely on the units of the ETA that exist in the region concerned. Anyway, I don't go on. We will return to the issue of the bill that our Government will bring in the next period. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What I would like to say, to close the issue of primary care in the urban fabric of our country, is that our design for primary and public health in large urban centres is a long-standing development. Ladies and gentlemen, from the logic of dealing with human beings as a machine that ruins our own repairs, that is, restoring its job capacity, its ability to exploit.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u143	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u144	I'll be done. Mainly aimed at preventing, promoting health and public health, this design approaches people and their health to the concept of the Left. I would like to conclude with one more point. I call for your tolerance, Mr President, just to finish. Why this confrontation in the health field? Because for us health is a place of meeting real health needs of the population, a place of guaranteeing human and social rights. The state, in our view, is not to guarantee the proper functioning of the health market, but to ensure institutional, financial and operational, the equal provision of reliable medical care and the prevention of health promotion to everyone, regardless of the working, insurance, financial situation of everyone or the legality of staying in our country. Faced with this attempt - and I am closing down with this, Mr President - there are indeed lesser-state lovers, that is, policy that supports the reduction and, by extension, the transfer of state health obligations to workers' backs. Therefore, we are not questionable about the attitude of the New Democracy and PASOK towards the heart of the social policy of the Left. However, we are asked questions, and to me personally, the attitude of the Communist Party of Greece. And that's because we've met in the fight for free public health. Therefore, in addition to the criticism of the forms of struggle which he has recently chosen, particularly of an activist nature, which, if you wish, may even undermine those demands he is starting, I cannot explain his attitude towards our efforts to stabilise and strengthen the public health system, but only as a result of ideological obsession, that is to say not to recognise anything positive, even when he sees it in the government, which is the main torso of the left.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u145	Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u146	In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that no matter how difficult our work is, we believe that we will succeed, because together with the legitimate demands of our people, we also receive his support, and that is our irresistible weapon. With the living social forces, both in our country's general economic problems and in particular in health issues, in a relationship of racing unity, based on honesty about the problems we face and ways of solving them, no matter how difficult we encounter, I believe we will overcome them, we will manage to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u147	Thank you Mr Nikolaos Igoumenidis, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative Mr Ioannis Vroutzis, Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u148	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the topical question tabled today by the Communist Party of Greece on health would expect the government to be placed more courageously, more honestly, more seriously. Unfortunately, Mr President-in-Office, today we have lived the theatre of total political cynicism. We heard the Minister just before. At the same time, Minister, who is today - I do not know if you know - the doctors who are working with the EEA - the diagnostic centres - and they are six months unpaid and have not taken a single euro, instead of saying something about it, because it is a big health issue for the country, you preferred to do and testify to the left-wing ideological manifesto for health. Don't you realize the world got you a mess? Do you not understand that your world has taken over and tired of the "will" and the good intentions of the Left? You've been running for a year and a half, and you're the worst government ever in the health sector, because public health has actually collapsed in your hands. He literally collapsed! And that's something you know or maybe you don't know, why don't you go to hospitals. You avoid going to hospitals. You are going for election with the trade unions, whom you now do not want to see or see!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u149	Have you been to a hospital?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u150	You're the Minister! And I won't let you interrupt me!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u151	Please! You'll talk about the hospitals again!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u152	I'm not letting you interrupt me! And don't get angry! Lower the tons! You were invading and cheating on the world. Do you know she's suffering today from nursing staff in hospitals? Do you know that doctors work from morning to night? And instead of saying a public "thank you" to the world of health, you mock him and challenge him and move his finger! Do you know that patients today are forced to buy the same materials to go to the hospital? There are no materials in hospitals to heal and force them, they are forced to go to buy materials. Ladies and gentlemen, it is truly courageous to hear the Minister say what the New Democracy would do. But it was us. We did and you received from us. It's no accident.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u153	Sure! And you've dissolved primary health!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u154	I know you're upset, Minister! You messed up! Go to a hospital, but don't be a weekend! Go to a hospital! It is a challenge and a courage to say what the New Democracy would do. But you received from the New Democracy! And it is no coincidence that today, a year and a half of government SYRIZA, there is not one doctor or an administrative officer or a nurse who says that today is better than before. Everyone says: "Don't get worse", "So government and such political leadership never went through again". To make a comparison. And I come to the island of Greece to which you referred. The northern-South Aegean has 20.9% less medical staff, 1.5% less administrative staff in the northern Aegean, 10.2% in the northern Aegean, 7.2% in the southern Aegean, 6.3% less in the southern Aegean. Is this the insular policy that you're feeding that ships will go - at least that's how I listened to my area - will the ship's catapult come down and fill the island with doctors? And I come to the islands' transit. You know - maybe you don't know it, but it's good to know - that the crossing on the islands is no longer done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u155	Who said that? Are you going to tell us?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u156	There are no helicopters in the EKAB. You've sat it down! The transfer is made by fire helicopters, which do not exist, as there are neither health supply facilities nor oxygen. That's where you got health on the islands! With regard to the issues relating to the ambulances of the EMCDDA, did you come to put as drivers in the EAW officials of the municipalities and firefighting, without having the elementary knowledge adequacy? And you're talking about health, which you've broken up? As regards the Aegean islands, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday in Paros there was an incident. You forced the residents of Paros to go down to the port to prevent the only ambulance from leaving the island of Paros. And electorally - although it's not time to talk about it - you had rabbits and rocks. You said rabbits and rocks to the Greek people for health! That's a challenge. But I have to tell you this: there are other government ministers who cry in the militarisations. You have tabled your vision today for when you become a government. I remind you you're government! However, I think it is the worst form of political hunger to listen to the Minister of Government, who apologically says that we cannot implement our programme, because neoliberal views and concepts prevail in the world, in society. Well, aren't you ashamed? Do you understand what you're saying? Do you realize what you're saying? I mean...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u157	Where did you hear that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u158	Minister, listen to what you're saying! You said it a moment ago here. So listen to what you're saying! That you are selling your conscience, your principles and your values to keep the position of the Minister. That's what you're saying!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u159	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u160	Since you cannot implement your programme, exchange your ideological policies "I believe", to keep the position of the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u161	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u162	But you are crying and fighting for the left - hand ideological account in the field of health. There has never been so much imprisonment in the political life of the country! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Do I have time, Mr President, like the previous one?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u163	Yes, you have a minute, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u164	I would therefore like to say two things which have their merits. We delivered you health with four and a half thousand jobs ready, written in the budget, to make assignments. But you chose ERT and your friends, your client system. You exchanged health with ERTs and friends. That's where the hires went. That's where the taxpayer's money was taken by Greek citizen. We have handed you the health system over a period of EUR 1.8 billion, and today you have reached EUR 3 billion. We delivered you the hospital grants of 1.4 billion, and today it's at 1.1 billion. That's who you are. That's your health policy. Besides, don't hide, that's left policy. This is left-hand health policy, and that is your perception of things in public health. This is your real person: sub-financing, sub-selling, incompetence, adequacy, populism. But by applying all this more to the reality of the life that you must govern and policy, in favour of the social person of the state, invoke the invisible powers, world invisible forces, which prevent good SYRIZA from applying good politics. But who are you kidding anyway? You're the first government to postmultition to break down the public health system. They booked public hospitals, sectors. What were you doing in Ptolemais? The pathology field is closed. What did you do at the Voula Asclipia? You shut down the dialysis department. First time left. First time, SYRIZA. That's who you are. That is left-wing policy. People are experiencing it. People live it. This is unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the raw reality: unfortunately, SYRIZA and the left seriously harm health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u165	Mr President, I would like the floor to answer Mr Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u166	You'll answer later, Minister. Mr. Koukoutsis has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr President. Today in this debate, what have we seen? Two, three ideological platforms, the struggle between dogmatic communism and the revizionist left. Of course, the pain is that they are your children. You're the one who upset them, but today instead of listening to Stalin you've taught them, you're listening to Burlingwer, Carijo, Marse. That's a point of view too. Everything is middle-subject in this country, ideologies, practices, positions, hence smiles earlier on the JRC's side for SYRIZA's left-hand view. Besides, Mr. Katrugalos recently, speaking in Messinia, spoke of a new Varkiza. Anyway, we'll see about all this. So, Yalantzi, it's all. Yaladzi is not just the deception of the citizens, who carry them a virtual reality, as if these people don't get into hospitals, they don't see the mess today. The EOPY grant is lower. They've become the booklets for sick carrots. Medical care is paid by the citizens' pockets. The tragic situation in health today cannot be concealed. He can't hide. The hospitals have no pharmaceutical and health material, let's be realistic. They do not have basic health material, gauze, cotton, gloves, syringes, etc. Surgeries are suspended, due to a lack of materials, there are people's lives at risk, and on television you see other things. However, the remarks on recruitment are zero. One in three places is vacant in bodies that have been set up, according to the Memorandum of Understanding, because we have abolished thousands of organic posts. The staff at hospitals today are around forty-five thousand. The memorial was about sixty-five. Every clinic is a nurse for forty patients. We need to separate something. There is a private health sector. There are the micromedical hospitals, what we are, the medics that people say, the province, Athens, the district. There are both the trusts and the money, the "trouts", which are not the doctorates of the neighborhood, Gyzis, the Vineyards, Petropolis, Peristeri. It's someone else. The obligations of doctors to suppliers in Greek public, insurance funds, public enterprises are constantly running and no one is crediting them. People die, waiting to find a place in an intensive care unit and remain two hundred beds closed due to lack of personnel. Doctors and nurses work within the limits of depletion in clinics and emergencies, and the recruitments made - and the Minister said so - are permanent staff but mainly subsidiary staff. Slaves in the gallery, with merciful wages, to work endless hours, subsidiary hours, practically contractors. There is, ladies and gentlemen, a lack of planning. There's a failure to exercise command. We're trapped again in communism. If one considers that, with all these shrinking budgets, public structures are called upon to deal not only with the care and hospitality of Greek citizens, but also with the thousands of refugees and illegal immigrants. You are therefore aware of the problem that has taken place in the system, particularly in hospitals and health centres in areas where foreign populations are located. The budgets are not enough, while the shortages of consumable materials and medicines in the hospitals of the ESS are already visible and we are in the first few months. They say we don't have positions. The Minister called for the rest of the parties to say a few positions. So here we are, the nationalist positions, the positions of the Golden Dawn: Public health care must be the responsibility of a central national health service, with an extensive prevention programme aimed at preventing cancer, heart disease and diseases, at reducing accidents at home and at work and the care of the disabled. There should be a total amount of funding which will provide a comprehensive control mechanism for the national health system. General doctors should act as primary care doctors on a 24-hour basis. Change the financing model from mixed, i.e. tax and social security, to a model based entirely on the state budget. A basic package of benefits is needed, which will be offered completely free of charge to the poor families, while for the rest there will be the same participation as an income criterion, however. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Forgive me, one page I have, Your Honor. The ESS must be run by a central body for planning, coordination, evaluation and control. To set up a new status of industrial relations at last. In other words, there will be permanentity for doctors and staff, which will be linked to even a ten-year evaluation. Administrations should be chosen on the basis of technical and professional qualifications. A real restructuring of the hospital map is needed at hospitals, clinics, workshops and rational redistribution. Make the primary care of the ERC's health krone, as it should be. To stop sub-financing and sub-delegation at last. To establish new relations of complementarity between the public and the private sectors. Golden Dawn is fighting for the development of a national free service system for the Greek people. Finally, a direct barrier to corrupt and october management practices must be put in place. Accounting check in all public hospitals and a definitive end to unreasonable waste. End of pluralism and multilingualism. Enforcement of strict penalties for illegal hospital administrators, doctors, nurses and administrators. Finally, the domestic market for medicinal products, pharmaceuticals and preference for the purchase of medicinal products produced in Greece rather than imported for public hospitals. Golden Dawn radically distinguishes the Greek pharmaceutical industry from the multinational, pharmaceutical colosses and considers it one of the few remaining strong branches of the economy. In fact, with an export orientation. No health benefits to illegal immigrants except in exceptional cases. To stop Greek hospitals from treating those who have illegally invaded the country and charge hundreds of millions of euros for public funds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u168	Please complete your thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u169	Yes, Mr President, and thank you very much for your tolerance. Mr Minister, I address you and the State Secretary, you do not answer our questions. It's your right. The answers we take to questions, which we ask at the Ministry of Health - and to you, that is, - are, in fact, 'you are a criminal organisation, you are fascists and we are not answering you'. That's what's going on. But I told you on a committee again. You don't answer us. Who is Dimitris Koukutsis now to answer him personally? No one's answering. You do not respond to ten thousand Messinians who, in the morning for work, for part-time or when they go to the hospital and there are shortcomings, there does not write: Golden Dawn, Communist Party of Greece, New Democracy, SYRIZA. It says: Greek worker. One of us. And by the way - and I'm ending after I was here - I would like SYRIZA to tell us at the E9 of whom people, whose citizens is the building of Kumundur? Quiz. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u170	Thank you Mr Dimitrios Koukoutsis, Parliamentary Representative of the People's League - Golden Dawn. We proceed with the parliamentary representative of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR, Mr. Andreas Loverdos. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr President. I have heard these days again, with the general political dialogue, officials of today's majority speaking in the media and here in the House, that "you have destroyed the country", that "forty years, you who have made us", etc. Because with such arguments - not exactly those - the Minister for Health has dealt with them, I feel obliged, Mr President, to give some clarification before the National Representation. In these forty years, i.e., the years of post-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-municipalities - as if it were well before we had a junta, making the incision from there - Greece became middle-class, education acquired schools with facilities as best we could, with universities. The towns of the country were filled with gyms that our youth is running. Families' children over the years - but now still some of them - can also drive with cars bought by their parents on the streets of the country. In general, insurance was the subject of all Greeks, not a matter of some. I would like to remind you that until at least we came to power in 1981 social security was a partial phenomenon in Greece. For the issues we are discussing, there is no need for a great deal of effort to clarify that the National Health System and the huge infrastructure available to the country was the result of our own initiatives and of the years of postpopulation. These were forty years of Crisis broke out. The wise children, the Greek people say, cook before they are hungry. That's why one can reproach us and he'll be right. Measures had to be taken early and were not taken. Let us now see the attitude of the parties, which are making this criticism today, and even though their criticism has been exhausted, that is all they have left. What did these years, for example, say, the years of economic acne? They said nothing was right and, if we were to give 1 euro, they would ask for 10 euros. If we made an intake, they asked for fifteen. If we were to give 10 euros, 20 euros were to be demanded. What was their policy? His opposition has given him more. What did they say in our efforts to reform the insurance system in 2001? They said "no" and along with our own forces, they came out on the road. This whole story did not cost the money, of course, said by Mr Giannitsis - excesses - 80% of public debt. At 319 billion euros, 80%? Oh, no. That's an exaggeration. But minimum 50 billion euros cost. Let's stay in the health field. I have mentioned this last of the good examples of the acne age, so that we can see them now and in the time of crisis as quickly as possible. The crisis has come: Reduction of drug spending. We are talking about some billions of euros, not some millions who are talking today. What did the current government, then, say a small minority, later a larger minority in Parliament? "No" to everything! What legislative effort has she voted and supported to reduce the price of the medicine? None. I am not talking about the present ministers, but about their predecessor. I have said from this Chamber that their predecessor is inspected for not issuing any new invoicing at the time of his term of office. Its responsibility, at least at political level, lies with us alive and integer. It was dramatically delayed. The next Minister came in - Deputy Minister at the time - to publish it. Total health expenditure is incomparable, with remulsions and waste! We've reduced them. What attempt to achieve this reduction did they support? None. We did rationalisation, cost and revenue knowledge with esy.net. We did it for free, without saying a lot - a lot. We did it! They're working on it today? I don't know. I think not. I don't hear good messages about it. Transfer of the invoicing of medicinal products to the Ministry of Health. Did they support her? They voted against it. More and more. Besides, on my own days - then I haven't seen - half of the infrastructure has not been closed. On the contrary, they opened up infrastructure, and I now have in mind the Health Center in Peristeri and the Health Center in Halkidiki. I don't remember the nearest city he gets from and his name when we get to know each other. You, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, today what have you done against all this? Where did you rely on at least one reason for eulogy? Nowhere. On the contrary, I remember especially the effort made by the EEA, which has been the implementation of a request since the 1970s, Mr President, the Ministry was then occupied by the forces, which are today the majority in the field of the centre of the National Health System. No one else acted like they did. No one else hit like they did. He literally hit. He didn't gnaw in words. He's hurt. This political power has assumed the rule of the place. What have we seen since? Have we seen any of the promises that promised in time a history specific to everything known? Did he do any of this? He didn't do anything of this. Harder policies, harder policies, announcements about the 2016 budget, which is in no way to be observed, for higher health expenditures. [[At this point, the end of the speech bell of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] I heard the Minister rebutting his actions, speaking here as if he were talking out of history, as if we didn't have July 1, 2016, but as if we had another day of another year in another country. I heard him talk about his good intentions. We never questioned them. Neither a traitor nor a german, nor a man of interest, as we were told. In particular, their trade union representative, Mr Barnavas, who from the day Mr Kurublis took over, has disappeared. Every day from morning to night on the channels was. He literally disappeared. I haven't seen him in months. I haven't seen Mr. Barnabas. So these people who knew everything...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u172	The channels are not based on the government, Mr. Loverdos. That's the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u173	Please, a little patience. You'll have the floor again. But now you'll hear them. And when it comes to health, you'll hear it. That's right. Collapse - Opposition. So resentment of words and works by a government that, note, is government 1/3 of the time of crisis management. Others were for the previous 2/3. As far as the Papandreou government is concerned, since the signing of the memorandum, you are more in the government than our government. You're more than I am. And now you no longer legitimately say about your good intentions. I don't question them. You're obligated to say about your things. You have referred to the topical and urgent question, and I do not have time nor the intention to refer to it. But I'll make three reports. One will end up in a question. Mrs. Christophilopoulou asks you five times about the Trinity General Eleusina Hospital. Why don't you answer? Here you are, in the House. Why don't you answer? We, when we were in the government and I myself, did not allow the Ministry to respond only for the sake of terrible force, not just of superior violence. Couldn't I? Coming up, Minister. She's coming in, she's coming, she's coming, she's You're two there. You have a chance. You know the issues. And you're not allowed to know each other. We took responsibility for each other. Collectively, the government works, how much more so the leadership of the same ministry. You are not allowed to leave questions relating to a hospital, three of the nine surgical clinics. I see them here. It's not my question. I don't control it so that I can play it, but I see that five times you've refused. One example is that of a Member of the Democratic Alliance. One of the prisoners. It's a wound you don't answer for. Two. In Intensive Treatment Units there are the known problems caused by the Ministry of Health. I am not now considering who is right or wrong. This is clear, but also a matter of justice. I'm still learning today that nursing staff aren't hired. Is it true, Mr. President? If it was completed, the hundred - and - doctor process was completed. But the four hundred nurses aren't finished yet. And there's a valuation of this shortage.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u174	Go to the third to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u175	And something that I'm combining with the first few days of taking up this leadership of the Ministry. I in 2012, before I left, made a call to take cars to equip the EKA fleet, which is the most critical service in this area, in my opinion. Last year I learned from a confrontation in the House that these were still not bought. The Salvation Year 2015. Now, salvage year 2016, one year after you in the Ministry's leadership, did you get them? If it was me, actually, putting my head in danger, I'd have taken it ten times. Did you get the cars? I'm asking why I don't know. I don't ask rhetoric.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u176	Good, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u177	Give me some time and I'll close. I have taken the floor to end up somewhere else, Mr President. When we were doing this really commendable initiative by the Paris Parliament the day before yesterday, which you, as President of the Commission of the European Communities, specified the issues, concerning thirteen carcinogens and the issues that the Treaty of Lisbon generally raises, remember, the Ministry of Health did not exist. We were talking about the MPs talking about carcinogenicity from thirteen toxic chemicals, new ones, added to the list and the Ministry of Health was not there. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't have time, but I have taken the floor in my main interest to tell you: Are you Ministers for Health or Ministers for Disease? Have you spoken here once over health finances about something? We at the difficult times that we were going through a crisis, also looked at transplants - what the rate is - we looked at OkANA - where we reduced the list, Minister, because in all hospitals we were...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u178	Now, don't do this...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u179	...and we stressed that despite our mediation with the citizens, you blocked it with the trabucisms that your political space, which we condemn today, has organized. And when people ask us 'to go', we say 'no, not to them'. It has to be political, not tranquilisation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u180	Good, Mr. Loverdo. Please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u181	So, as sickness ministers, you must understand that you are health ministers, you must talk about this social good and tell us how you unleash your policies, rather than do what you do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u182	Good. Then the ministers will answer. Mr Barriots Konstantinos, Parliamentary Representative from Potami, has the floor now. Please stay in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, taking everything from Mr Loverdos in relation to the policies relating to transplants, etc., I would remind you of our last conversation and your last commitment to the convergence of the Committee on Social Affairs on Smoking. It's coming out. Mr. Manios is waiting for you. I think it's a good opportunity to do it and discuss it. To get to the bottom of the subject, which we are discussing today, you will allow me to speak a little more generally. I want to get away a little from describing the deficiencies or problems, because it has begun to become a trivial issue, as it is now a year old. The common perception of the health problem in Greece is what Mr Loverdos said, 'for every euro ten'. It is the so-called economics, as we used to say in universities, commonly the idea that problems are solved automatically by injecting resources, findings, staff and machinery themselves. The health system thus looks like a balloon that rises itself and starts to become beautiful and functional only because we inflate it. This was the basic concept of all these years, and in fact we are all well aware that the National Health System above its well and offering it social was - and still is - the Danades' ape. I remind you he absorbs and never fills. It's something we've known since the good times. The Communist Party of Greece and SYRIZA, but to tell all about the New Democracy and the PASOK when they are in opposition, they tend to sell the same scenario: more money, more resources, more investment. In fact, however, we are at a time when the budget is finite. There's no money. It's specific. So the demand for an increase in resources is a demand, which is realistic for the next decade is a demand out of reality. Unfortunately, the needs in Greece - and this is time-consuming - are neither sufficiently detailed nor hierarchical. We have a health system in which hundreds of millions of millions of people have been invested during the post-population period and during the past twenty years in a pure Greek way, one would say, little accidentally, on the basis of rhetorical or clientele or party pursuits, without actually knowing the hierarchical needs. The government is, in fact, bound today to the political perception, which I mentioned earlier, of the perception that the health system must grow, invest, hire, buy, inject. It is a policy which, on simply Greek, is no longer possible, especially since the government joined the Memorandum of Understanding by reading Ruvikon. So it is actually awkward in terms of politics, and I think that, as I said at the outset, it is unnecessary to describe the situation. The situation has been described by everyone and with a word it is worse than ever. Despite all the efforts that the Minister has mentioned - and I will acknowledge them as well as the intentions - the situation today, because of the accumulation of a five-year crisis and cuts, is worse than ever. I'm afraid, and that's what people are saying, people who know the situation in hospitals from within, that very soon, especially in Athens where the property infrastructure is old, we're going to start having problems with building infrastructure, for the simple reason that there's no money for light, much more for heavy maintenance. This is why the government opposes either false lies, such as the gorgeous 200 million that the EEAH will give to the Health System - where the EEAY will find them and how it will give them is another conversation - or half the truths. The three and a half thousand appointments at best will be able to keep the number of staff of the ERC within three years of today's frame of mind. They are not going to face the chronic and accumulated needs. It is a drop in the ocean, as is the famous increase in the health budget, assuming it is true. Until now we have seen firefighting policies, no visions, no programming, no overall response. The result is what we said before. There is complete uncoordination, and despite the government's formal 'covering of all uninsured', we have substantially increased the excluded from the system, because the system is simply out of function on a large part or cannot, at best, cope with the pressure that exists. When the communication result of the policy is exhausted, which is concisely embodied in the 'Water in the glass shop', implemented by Mr. Paulakis lately, when he has broken, that is, what remains up until now, the country will be faced with the truth that is not at all pleasant. The government - outside the intentions - with its funds for the next few years - that government and, possibly, the next - cannot completely support the ERC in its size and fragmentation, which it has today. Much more, it cannot create pharanonic primary state structures, which have an undetermined number of recruitments, where no three and a half thousand are enough, and not even thirteen and a half thousand are enough to do. So if we want to be realistic, we must address the problem with what we have, not with the logic of lasting growth, but with the logic of managing the money, which we have and the system that we have. The ESS can neither be maintained nor far off with these logics. There is a need for a major change in funding, supplies and, above all, in its day-to-day operation. We need to see in the face of what is constantly pushing under the carpet all the governments in the crisis, but also a long time ago. Both in Athens, mainly and in the region, it is urgent to restructure the available resources, materials and, above all, human beings. If they are not being studied and conscious now, at least at the last minute, very soon, the failure to maintain the buildings and equipment, which I have said before, and if necessary the new round of negotiations with the Troika, will impose violent and irresistible closures. And I'm not talking about closures, I'm talking about mergers and partnerships, so that we can use 100% of the potential in the best way. Even today, with the huge gaps, there are forces in the ESS that either comment on or are wasted on secondary or useless services. Rescheduling and merger, therefore, are the first step towards saving and reforming the ESS. The second is the modernisation of such an antiquated administrative structure, which cannot in fact implement any reform. It is necessary that hospitals and large state structures of the PEDY are independent of the nails of the party armies. They must not be appointed commanders on the basis of assessment criteria, they must become autonomous self-government units where no politician can hand over or affect the appointment of the administrations. They must become self-government, public units operating on private economic criteria. The more difficult, perhaps, reform and what, unfortunately, all of us doctors - politicians are admitting, is the need for the reform of the medical services and the clean operation of hospitals. From the reform of the ERC and the now dissolving medical training in specialities, Minister, for which nothing has been done until quality assurance, which is not even a concept in the Greek system of doctors' evaluation, who do what they understand and what they can do without anyone controlling them...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u184	Complete your thoughts, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u185	...there's a huge reform that involves huge savings. I will disappoint those who believe that the only problem of waste is supplies of material and resources in the health system. The really great waste in the health system is done by abuse and waste of materials by people, who do well in faith, think they practice best practice and best practice. This thing in Greece does not exist, there is no education, and there is not even the effort by the political leadership to implement it. Unfortunately, the government - and I am ending with this - has neither a vision nor a political plan. Apart from the well-meaning attempt to shut holes in a system that collapses substantially tall in the dark what it has to do from now on, as there's no money and there's no money. I've been blowing up the scandalology - Mr. Paulakis got us twenty-three cases with the newest of 2013 - it's consumed in rumbles, I'm afraid - and he sends the bill to the poor in fact. Because those affected by the health system's weakness are the ones who can't put their hand in the pocket. They are the poor and weak in society, who are not in position in the hospital, because the hospital has no door open anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u186	Thank you. Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the ANELs, has the floor for six minutes strictly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u187	The public hospital for too many years, a total of thirty - seven, was my second home. And I had the luck of operating as a hospital commander from 2004 to 2006 and even a very difficult hospital, such as the Hospital of Nice. I therefore want to believe that I am entitled to have a specific opinion on how public health should work, but also health in general. I am one of those who has been whole for decades - because it is not new, some have recently discovered it - I say that in beds in intensive care units there is a shortage. There was a shortage of money. One minister passed after another and nothing happened. Indeed, it is not only a hundred - now it has become two hundred - beds, but it should be at least five hundred more. I remember five ministers went through and nothing happened about it. Every time a Greek citizen goes on a night that something happens to him in a hospital, which updates the emergency department, he sees some people who literally give their lives, their souls, and the level of nursing and medical staff. But under no circumstances is it a good picture for a citizen. Indelibly engraved, this experience will remain in the mind of a citizen, who will need to go on a night in great need, because he has a heart attack, because he has a car accident, because he has a stroke in the emergency departments, which sometimes reminds of or war with Ukraine or Syria, or I don't know what. I am one of those who is shouting, screaming - forgive me for the expression - years - not now - that we should also pay attention to public hospital revenue. And I belong to the charge of these doctors I have never had a private medical office, even when Alekos Papadopoulos gave us the opportunity. I would even like here to praise the doctors of the JRC at the Hospital of Advertising, Elias Siora, who have never entered the logic of having an afternoon clinic like me. We should find a way to increase revenue in public hospitals. And my opinion is that when a patient goes to the intensive care unit, whoever it is, the state must be able to save his life without paying a single penny. However, it could otherwise coexist with this immediate provision of medical assistance with some profits for hospitals, other parts of the hospital. I still want to say something, because I heard the officer's representative, who I want to believe doesn't know the health field, ignores him. He spoke with very tough tones. I heard him say it's a nerve, and I heard again that I'm a total persecutor, and I heard things. I want to remind him of a few incidents. One of these, which I lived on my side, was: "Evangelism" was a hospital in which I worked for many years, more than thirty-five years and had a commander undead. I'll say his name. He was the son of Jack of Diamantopoulou, surgeon Diamantopoulou, who was impotent and all the "Evangelism", the whole hospital was proud of this commander. However, as it did not comply with the suggestions, the Ministry of Health then went through an amendment night, saying that anyone who has served as a doctor in a hospital has no right to be commander. It was the only dirty way to leave an honest commander. This is how public health was commanded, Mr President, gentlemen, during the days of the Civil Liberation Party, to which I belonged later, What do I mean? Be a little more careful, because in the health field it may have become the biggest party of corruption and interlocutory. The suppliers at night met either trade unionists or administrators and arranged which amendment would only pass and arrange for the amount that the person who arranged for the amendment to be taken over by night. All this today - I say it and I mean it - is a past. The people who are currently leading in the health field have found a rugged land. How could this earth not be broken when the country went bankrupt? So, what would the health be, the exception? In a bankrupt country, what would public health be? Of course not. And I sincerely admire the courage and courage of those people who are today making an honest effort for the first time. Is everything right? Oh, no. But there is a very good intention. I still want to praise the JRC's move. I believe it is consistent with what he says and raised the matter. The health issue is not solved in six to seven minutes. Because I'm familiar with the space, what I'm saying is one millimeter of what I could say. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One more minute, Mr President. It's a place we should all hug him together. Because I want to believe that we all have brothers and sisters, women, children, our own people - here and if the word deserves to be the case, which unfortunately is not the case - I say that we need to embrace the area of health as a whole. It's not offered for opposition crowns. I mean the following. I have lived two countries, Denmark and the Netherlands. One is Scandinavian country, but both are capitalist. The way the health system works in these two countries is incredibly controlled. The words ‘corruption’ and ‘complexion’ do not exist. The phrases “become this” or “the doctor in question, because he had a means” do not exist. I've come to the point where I'm going, you guys want to get them? What have these people done and managed thirty or forty years ago what we are fighting for? You're told by a man who, when Fridays started this truly honorable effort, is missing PASOK's friends here - I was one of those who embraced him. Too many doctors we gave it all back then. No, evolution wasn't what we dreamed of. Some doctors got rich in public hospitals. And private health was uncontrolled. I say all this and I say all this again - I rarely say good words - that these people are coming to an incredible war right now. Their mistake? Their mistake is they have nothing to do with corruption and complexity. I am one of those who really will praise, not only the specific ones, but who will try to cope with this very difficult task, perhaps the hardest thing for me, because they have a hundred and twenty-six public hospitals, have private hospitals, have health centers, have the EMCDDA, have everything, which is no longer such a turnover. It's a social matter because someone got sick, someone has the feeling that he was wronged and says immediately "he said "he didn't see Paulakis" or refers to someone else. It's a tough load. Watch out why a man who didn't have a private office was his second home the public hospital. I am pleased - and I am finishing - but under other conditions, with more time and above all with a good will to have a greater debate on the health sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr. Papachristopoulos. The last speaker from the Parliamentary Representatives, Mr Theodora Megalonos, has the floor from the Centroon Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u189	Mr. Ministers, some time ago, 4 to 7 May, in Rhodes, became the Medical Conference "Controls". Mr. Ministers, you have glowed by your absence, if you can hear me, at the Medical Conference in Rhodes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u190	Do you know how many such conferences are held in Greece every year?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u191	Why didn't you come? It was a medical conference.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u192	A thousand a year! We can't go to everything!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u193	They were from all parts of Greece waiting for you by the doctors. At least, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u194	I didn't promise to go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u195	But they were waiting for you. Why did I go? I'm not a doctor. It was very interesting. It was for the family doctor, who needs to get in at least. In my grandmother's year the doctor was private, there was no public doctor. He was the doctor who was entering our homes watching us from aspirin to my grandmother's birth. But you were expected, Mr. Ministers, at that conference. It was very nice. I don't know why you didn't come. Now I think that Greece is right now...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u196	We've been to a lot of conferences in our lives as doctors, but as ministers, we have to do some work.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u197	Please, ladies and gentlemen, let us not continue with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u198	As ministers they waited for you, they weren't expecting you as doctors. Greece has been experiencing the worst health situation in the past decade. I have the report from the Bank of Greece, which shows that we are in the most painful economic crisis. Now the world is suffering from depression that is in the first place. Child mortality is great, because the world cannot have vaccines and chronic diseases have increased, especially heart disease. In fact, I am tabling a motion for a resolution on the Minutes, so that you do not doubt it and that we can be documented. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Theodora Megalonikou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] There's a big shortage of medical and nursing staff. Too many doctors retire and thanks to their friendship they continue to go to hospitals, as they go to the State General Nice and to "Metaxas". Although retired, they still respect the Hippocrates' Oath, they go and do not abandon their position, particularly in surgery. I've lived that. Our position is extremely difficult in terms of the health care system, which has collapsed. I'll file papers that prove it. The budget has reached 1/5, and even there is a post from Capital.gr, which says we are out of budget for 2016. We're out of 430 million. I'm tabling this for the Minutes too. [[At this point the Member, Mrs Theodora, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned publication, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The hospital debts of the ESS have reached 177 million and this is related to Law.4368/2016 with the provision of medical care services to the most deprived and foreign and refugees. We did the same in the parallel program. When I referred to the parallel programme, you told me that 100 million euros were enough to treat all uninsured people, etc. And I told you it's not enough, because you don't know how many you're going to take care of. Then you told me that money was there, so it'll be enough, but it's still not enough. We've gone beyond that. In 2018, our commitment is that we will be able to spend EUR 1,94 billion. I ask you, do you think citizens will have drugs that would justify them by 2017-2018? Is that gonna get us that money? I'll give you one more thought. With the cutter that was recently voted, when the cost of drugs will be derailed, what will happen? When the mechanism is activated, how will the people get their medications? So, if we're derailed, where we're already leaving the drug budget, we're gonna cut off the drugs? How will they be cut? There won't be any care? How are you going to deal with this? As far as the EMCDDA is concerned, the ambulances are already out of programme. Also, helicopters are trapped. I'm taking this post as well. [[At this point the Member, Mrs Theodora, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned publication, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The hospitals work with security staff, or so many doctors, who are like working with security staff every day. Patients' escorts to hospitals are, in fact, forced - they are asked in hospitals - to bring sheets, pillows and first-demand items, even injections. I would like to refer again to the fact that it is regrettable that people cannot carry out tests. With regard to the examination of women for cancer, 30.7% of women cannot be considered. They can't make an appointment with their doctors. They can't schedule for surgery in cancer patients. They cannot currently have preventive control. I would also like you to reply to me, Minister, on the subject I had asked a timely question about the 'Metaxa Hospital'. You have systematically avoided answering the question. Since 25 April I submitted it. It's been two months now. The ‘Metaxa’ Hospital is subordinated, has no staff. It corresponds to a nurse in fifty patients. CT scanner's in trouble. He's been broken since 2013. They're going outside to do CT scans. The magnetic tombographer doesn't exist since his time when Mr. Voridis was Minister. The sheets are washed at the "Juneo" Hospital. You haven't answered me yet. You're avoiding it. You've postponed seven times to answer me. As far as Alexandra maternity is concerned, I visited it again. We had asked a relevant question. But the kids are still there. I refer to'retired', those of mothers of drug addicts, etc. which they need methadone. They're still there. Make sure something happens about this. I think the health system needs a lot of work. You need to make a big effort. It's not what he expected of you, the government of the left, the people. It was completely different what you promised with what you gave the Greek people. It's too far from what you promised, what you're giving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u199	Thank you to Mrs Theodora Megalonikou, the Parliamentary Representative from the Centro Association. The Deputy Minister, Mr Paulakis, has the floor to give a second answer on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Mr President. Despite the fact that Mr Brutsis, who, with the lies he has said, has gone beyond the ground, I will keep my temper and make the speech I wanted to make by listening very carefully to what you said, because I want to respond to this issue which is the central issue, if you can in the end do things in these current circumstances and in this situation to strengthen public care. Listen, JRC colleagues, you are making a mistake in your analysis and because you are making a mistake in your analysis, you are also making a mistake in your proposal. I repeat, with all due respect to the history of your party, of which I have been a member for a number of years: modern capitalism, bloodshed financial capitalism, there are two conflicting health trends. One is that in the context of competition between the various centres, America, Europe, South-East Asia, etc., in relation to who will be more competitive on the markets, the main point is the depreciation of the value of the labour force. It is the great deterioration of this value, so the deterioration of both the money and the support you give for the reproduction of the labour force, that is, the health system. In order to be able to sell competing products, it is necessary to reduce the non-wage labour costs which are the employers' insurance contributions, which are ultimately the financing through the state budget and the insurance contributions of labour force reproduction needs. Right this far. There is another aspect, however: in the light of developments in science and technology there has been a huge objectiveization of health services in recent decades. What does "objectionalisation" mean? He will say that we replace the mental work or the technical skill of a health scientist from a machine, a technique, a test, or a health product, from a health goods. These health products, because they cover health needs, must be sold and can have very high rates of profit. So there is a great opposing trend within capitalism by companies producing them that they need to be sold. Who is the largest consumer of these products? Public health systems. This is the biggest consumer of products. On the one hand, you have the general tendency to reduce the value of the labour force and its reproduction, but on the other hand, you tend to want these to be sold by very large multinational groups. A third issue arises here, which concerns our country very much, because we have Balkan capitalism here and come from elsewhere. But it also concerns other countries, not just us. Why? These health products have a difference. Each lady or gentleman can't go buy them from a store. One has to mediate their use, one has to put it in, use it in order for multinationals to make their profits. This'some' is the health scientist. This is the objective basis for corruption in the health field, what we have lived in previous years. Watch out now, let's talk about real paperwork. If you don't take account of all these three things, you don't have a line for health. And unfortunately, the Left - where I served for years - did not have that line. We were only talking about increasing health expenditure. They gave money and the public expenditure in our country came to be 18 billion euros, to be an Olympic a year. Public spending for about thirteen years has been 15 to 18 billion euros. Of this amount, between 4 and 6 billion was black money overpriced. Most of what I say consumed the public health system and was a decisive factor in the bankruptcy of the country's previous model. Make an account of '6 billion for thirteen years', what comes out to see what percentage of the country's public debt - because all this was bought on loan - is the cost of the para-economy to health of the 300 billion debt we have. That's it. Along with the defense is the largest sums. Mr. Barriots laughs. He knows it, but when he was in PASOK, he never remembered it in his analysis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u201	I wasn't in PASOK!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u202	This is the real analysis of the situation, rivals from the Communist Party. So, yes, you have room for that system as well. Because at the moment Mr. Loverdos and Mr. Vorides and Mr. Georgiadis have reached the expenditure, with a horizontal cut, from 18 billion to 10 billion. We did this this year 10.8 billion. We haven't set up the mechanism yet, we're setting it up. It's very hard to break a thing that was set up thirty years ago, but we're gonna kick it! We have therefore reached the figure of 10.8 billion. We know that within this is 2 to 2.5 billion gross economy both in the public system and in the EEAS and in the private sector. I'm not talking about private fees now. I am talking about public expenditure, whether insurance funds or state budget. We can save money from the real use of resources. Let me say this a little ideologically: we want to reward as much as it deserves living work and not dead work, that is, the one that is concentrated on a machine, a technique, a reagent or a material. Why was the previous social contract? I don't pay you what your work deserves, whether a doctor or a nurse you are, either an administrative or anything in the public health system, but I allow you to take a piece of miserable from what's condensed in the purchase price of these health products that we said before, and it's dead work condensed there at the end of the day. I don't pay you for your on-call, but get a "black" of 1,000 euros for the set of laparoscopic cholocystectomy. Take a "black" of 35,000 euros from the graft, which is produced with 1,000 euros, is worth 4,000 and 5,000 euros by selling it and insurance funds paid 60,000 euros. This whole thing came out of the left analysis and the first place that did it was us. This is a guide today, because yes, you can save resources - and I'm talking about hundreds of millions - which will turn into three directions: Firstly, an increase in staff, which is suffering from the system, which you have thrown away with all the history you have done in previous years. Second, a re-establishment of wage losses. We can increase too much wage losses over the past few years and get more staff with this savings. Thirdly, to complete infrastructure, which is currently missing from where they are located. We are not in the worst condition in terms of infrastructure. The other party he set up was with the contractors. You know they built too many buildings, the contractors and all the extremists and the managers of the former state mechanism, and they stayed like this. All over Greece there are thirteen Kaffkas and the two to three work, which we need to move forward. This is an answer, I believe, to the main question, which you put and which is for us and the core of our understanding and how we move in relation to the health system. We prepared the procurement bill, which is the great intersection, and which soon comes into consultation to accept all the comments. This bill will really cut off this umbilical cord of the pay for dead work instead of living work. I'm going to spend a little time now, because I can't hold onto it. Mr. Brutsis, of course, left like the weasel. He's coming, stealing the egg and leaving. First, there's no ambulance in Paros, but three. The two are units and the other backup. The third is now gone with this competition, Mr. Loverdos didn't take it, he doesn't know. It's the competition he reopened, which had started since 2007. He'd put his player on slowly! - to catch the castles to complete the competition! If we did not do what we did in October, we would lose ninety, with the completion of the Court of Auditors. And at the moment, if he does not know, the majority of ninety have been delivered to the regions. One of the things that was delivered, then, went to Paros and we said to get the other good thing they have - but they don't need the island size - to go to Mytilini that we have a problem with refugees and need a unit. Mr. Brutsis had some locals make a fuss about it. Because that's what he's done. With EKAV's time, they dare and talk and they don't blush, they don't find a hole in hiding, too, and PASOK. Helicopters of the EKAB paid them 'the heel'. Three down. Look out! We do not know as the Ministry of Health - to see what they have made, but they are not here now - where the compensation went, and whether they were compensated for what they have fallen. The two remaining have been "sitting" for four five years. This year, the last one sat down because it was not repaired. There is also an incredible circuit there from the Ministry of Health, the EKAB, the Ministry of National Defence, the representatives of motor companies, aircraft companies that too want to exorcise. We've given the solution to the fire helicopters and amplifiers to the military helicopters. And yet another chopper is now going to Thessaloniki - Mr. Toskas will announce today - which will take over the weekends from Halkidiki's footway and have lost lives, due to the fact that there is a barrier to Marmara and a lot of time to be transferred to the Thessaloniki Hospital and other accidents that occur. For the first time, there will be another helicopter there to cover for the summer months. It's a lot of things I have to answer, but I can't make it. I'll only pick one. He said Mr. Loverdos was inspected by the previous minister for the drug price report. And Mr. Loverdos is inspected for one of his judgments. It was one of the twenty-four cases that I delivered to the Vice-President of the Ice Bay, following the statements I made about the trespassing circuits, which no one knew in this country, and they all fell from the clouds! It was, therefore, one of the twenty-four cases that I said 'Tell me what happens'. There is an open issue that has to do with the funding of 10 million euros of OKANA, with a decision by Mr. Loverdou, who has never been converted into a cabinet of cabinets for staff recruitment, signed by CEDEFOP, the sinister CEDEFOP that as long as you escape, you find snakes, ometers and scorpions! It signes a programme contract with OKANA, that it gives him 10 million euros to hire people in twenty-four structures to develop the OKAN system to cover drug users. It sends this paper, the OECD is funded with 10 million euros and then the OECD makes a unilateral change in the contract. It does not use them for recruitment, because it never comes out of a cabinet act and without the contract saying it, it makes it infrastructure repairs. We are looking to find invoices for the EUR 5 million of the EUR 10 million that was given there. For the 5 million invoices we found are "argi, bourgeois and saliva". Two checks have been carried out, and he's in the prosecutor's office from another route. A second conclusion of the EEAS is completed. We, Andreas and I, take responsibility for anything that moves anywhere in the country, in the smallest health center. Here they left 10 million and went there and made 'huma' - it is what remains at the end, the useless, when the cheese comes out - and they say 'we are not responsible, we do not know, we presiding'. Everyone's checked and everyone's checked. We all know very well that the attack we take not from you, ladies and gentlemen of the JRC, but from the rest of the House it is because we have been cut and the tap has stopped to drip. Do you know what it's like to have a manager and to have given in a seven-year, eight-year, over 80-90 million euro advertising expenditure? Do you know what money this is? You know what 2014 is, a big year of the crisis, from CEDEFOP to give 6 million and in 2015 to become zero? Hello, Mr. Kelles, now that I've told you. You know what this thing is, cutting down every year 6.7, 8 million advertising expenditure? See the tables posted by Greece. They fed SMEs, not only the big ones here, the Athenian, but they also made personal services to regional MPs by their own local means. That thing was done. Well, that's cut, guys. Weep as much as you like. That's the situation from now on. A grief and grief to be done, that doesn't change again. There's also the competition for the channels in progress. He lost his appeal from what I saw and the MEGA. Some sixty appeals have been filed by the Pope for this thing, and I think...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u203	Good. Finish this, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u204	However, what I wanted to see is the first part, which I have answered to you, because that is how there is room and only through such a way. Another thing, which we didn't understand - and as the Left we didn't understand - is that, to get power, you have to take the government. If you don't call the government, you don't get the power. I understood this as a mayor, because it's blown and put it impossible unless we talk about armed rebellion. It's blown up and makes it impossible to shape front terms that you've rallyed social forces when you can't change a mechanism that's been rotten, corrupted and caught all the nodes of the system for twenty years and won't let go. Do you know that for the appointment of the new governors there is a mechanism that delays us a few days in being appointed? There's a mechanism that's been delaying us for a few days. For the nine hundred and eighty-five people we get, you know we've got people looking at it every day, because of the fifteen steps of the previous mechanism's system, they're delaying it so it doesn't look? That thing's done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u205	Why don't you change it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u206	That's what we do, that's why it hurts you, and that's why you yell.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u207	Why does it hurt us? I didn't get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u208	Let's finish this, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u209	Because that way you will lose the authority you think you still have.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u210	Don't hold a dialogue, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u211	You have authority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u212	Minister, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u213	Whatever's illegal in the CDC send it where it should be.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u214	Mr. Kelles, don't have a dialogue. Let us move on with the honourable Members, and at the end of the day the Minister for Health can quantify them. I leave it at his discretion. Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor and you have the time available, from what I see here, five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr President. We are on our way to the end of the debate. We, as a Communist Party and its parliamentary group, in provoking this debate, know that there will, of course, be confrontation, but we are addressing the people. We are not going to convince any parliamentarians or MPs of another party. On the other hand, we know that the ideological approach to health and the general issues of each party is well known, and much more to the government that we are addressing this question. It has been said that in the Communist Party we are ignoring the critical parameters of capitalism and what was previously heard by Mr Polakis. Because you have learned them well, as you have said, from space, so you get the credit from capital and from business groups, from BSE, etc. You seem to have been affected by our health assessment of capitalism. Do at least less. Here are the real problems. So do something less, take relief measures now that you find it difficult, as you have said, because of monuments. This is not a matter of conscience or unconscious resignation of the health system. With regard to radical reorganisation, as you have said, distortions, corruption, the previous governments have said. We have, however, always had a cut under these challenges of distortions and corruption, and so on, which were exist and are possible. But were there shapes, but under this invoicing of these phenomena, the issues, the problems all the time, what did we have for the people? Reduction of benefits and increase of payments. We say, therefore, that the people must say a bronze'saving' now, that 'do not save us another time, you - as you wish - say the left-wing government of corruption, and also the distortions, since you cannot even make one move', we say polemic. And you're saying you can't give the medicine free of charge for everyone as you should. Why don't you go on - not today, we say yesterday - to 'fresh' the payment of medicines to the level of pre-crisis and to the abolition of VAT? Instead, you increased the payments from the patients, as we told you at the beginning of the debate. We are now told that what we are proposing is utopia and that we say it will happen to the people's power. However, we do not refer them back to that time, but you can be sure that once you find it and say it - so you agree with us - it will be implemented. However, all this will be implemented, and now there will be no solution to the century in a philosophical direction on health issues, or, if you wish, full coverage at all levels of the needs of our people in health, medicine, etc. Therefore, health issues are not solved by visions, but by acts and concrete measures. In addition, we are judged. The measures and policies of the present government are in complete contrast with the interests of the people. At the same time, you call on the people to resign from their health needs and other fields or levels in the name of realism. But what realism? The needs of the person or capital? Heading. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] Now look specifically, as I said before, for medicines. You cannot administer, he says, universal drugs in the world, as has been said, to the uninsured, or cancer patients for the accompanying diseases or chronic diseases, such as diabetics. Remove, as we have said, VAT. Do the preventive tests for free, so strong children are born. These are specific proposals now being made, realistic, because they tell us about utopias, etc. It has been said in our prototypes that there are no recruitments. Of course, you know that. They must be recruited as a child in all counties. There are prefectures that don't have pediatricians in PEDY, as we told you. Patients don't have doctors in the MAH. This is largely true, to a large extent. It's a large number of shortages in contracted doctors with EOPY. Nor can you do that and you consider it unrealistic. So you don't want to do it. It's not that you can't, but you have other priorities. Don't tell us that there are no funds and money and that you're looking for them, that is, all that we've heard so far and we've been listening to them for a long time. Recently, as a government, you voted for a development law, through which you give privileges to capital, warm money, tools to be able to invest, gain, and at the same time deprive the people of health, the medicine. These are important, basic needs to do with its survival. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] You said - and I am closing with that, Mr President - that you have taken measures, you are praising them, you are propagandaing them, and so on. On 15 July, now in a few days' time, the three hundred thousand welfare workers - that is, people who have a welfare book - will take their medicines not from hospital pharmacies, but from outside private pharmacies. We are therefore asking a question which we would like to raise, because we want to bring it up and get a reply from the Minister. What's being treated? First of all, the risk of paying the difference in the insurance price from the sale price to the pharmacies, that is, the rest of them, while the pharmacies have not paid so far, because they have been given free of charge. Secondly, they will pay one euro in the recipe. So, then, three hundred thousand people who had a welfare book will bear the burden if they may end up taking the medicines from the pharmacies and not from the hospital pharmacies, as they get them now. Obviously, that's true. We would like an answer to the closure, Mr Minister. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u216	Thank you Mr. Lambroulis, MP Larisis of the Communist Party of Greece and Z Vice-President of the Parliament. Mr.Ioannis Delis, MP of Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, Mr President. We have heard the relevant ministers place themselves, to recognise the bad reality, to accumulated problems, of course, implying that they are not responsible. We do not say that they are responsible for everything, but they too have - their policy I mean - their own lira. After an effort was made on the health relationship with its dimension, which the ministers have attempted to renounce, life itself comes to respond - and indeed the space in which they belong is not contrary, as far as we know - to the parallel existence and the parallel functioning of business activity and health. Of course, this business activity in health, not only in the private sector but also in the public sector, was captured in the most characteristic way and in the famous parallel programme with the operation of the Santorini Hospital and, of course, with the Minister's position at the "Economist" and "Santorini Hospital" conference, which will run literally as a private business, placed in the bill that is supposed to combat the humanitarian crisis. We have heard the Minister responsible say that, given the agreement, the third memorandum, we are doing everything we can. First of all, where and to what extent? Data is the deal, since you voted for it. This is not a natural phenomenon. You have accepted it, voted for it, supported it, implemented it. However, all this literature and arguments by the relevant ministers are nothing but a school to reduce its demands, to bend the head, not claim, to live with what we are giving him now, and in the future, even though conditions and infamous fair growth allow him to get a crumb later. We amazed the Deputy Minister to say that we are trying to reward living work. How is that possible, Minister? With the wage cut? With the unpaid on-calls? Is it possible to get up and say these things in here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u218	Do you want me to answer you now? This is the first time since six years the overtime has been paid. Didn't you see it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u219	Don't interrupt, Mr. Polakis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u220	We have also heard the Deputy Minister tell us, after a thorough analysis of the system, that there is scope for this system, therefore, to give us some of it. Good! Will you make sure all the counties have a pediatrician? Will you give a free medicine to the chronic patients, the cancer patients, the diabetics? Will you remove one euro in the recipe? Don't tell me it's socialist measures! Since there are these margins, then, be a glorious field, do it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u221	That's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u222	Thank you Mr. Delis, MP of Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece. Mr Christos Katsotis, MP for three minutes, has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Mr President. Are there all that Mr. Paulakis said in his place? There are! There are overpriceds, corruption, an entire circuit that, if you like, the public health system. However, this does not lead to the conclusion that capitalism has the potential for universal access to a health system that will provide upgraded health benefits to the people, free of charge, exclusively, because capitalism has the ironic law of profit, and this does not allow such health to be provided to the people without, if you like, getting into these health benefits. So there are two sides. One side is to tackle the acute health problems now, which you too recognise are serious about problems, and the other is the prospect of a definitive response to what we say health for the whole of the people. With regard to now, there are still two sides. One is the system's response to the needs for access to our people, and the other is the people's access to health benefits. Here too, we have talked about the need for all the people to have access to health care and health care. As far as uninsured people are concerned, because it is a matter that you and you put this sign of sensitivity, the left-hand perspective, etc., on that we would like to tell you: We would now like to see the sides that have and the uninsured are left, unfortunately, outside of healthcare, when it is required by them to pay the medicines, the treatments, the laboratory tests, when they are excluded from the contracted doctor of the EEAS, to go to the contracted doctor of the EEAS, when they are excluded from the prescribed clinics, who, in order for you to have informed clinically, will say that the public health system cannot meet the needs of the population as a whole, so you contribute to clinically required. And here, then, are they besides that. You also set standards. You put 200 euros a month to provide free medicines and tests. But why? What's he gonna say 200 euros a month? We're talking about total impoverishment. Or one who has a home and has objective living criteria, can he take the drugs? Can he run laboratory tests, treatments? These issues, such as the necessary staff in hospitals, the recruitment of doctors and nurses, the materials to be present, I say that they must be dealt with immediately, because they are for now. When the other guy says there's no gauze, that's not what he's saying. Is there a circuit again for the gauze? We need the Ministry to say what it is that is not handled. There are now shortcomings in hospitals. Why? What's that? Are there any materials? So since you have found money from all this savings from this circuit, at least the materials needed in hospitals, in order to provide the necessary services to patients, must exist. They can't be treated like this. That's all I had to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u224	Thank you Mr Katsotis, MP for the Communist Party of Greece. Minister, you have the floor for your tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr President. I think it was an interesting conversation. We have made it clear from the outset that the criticism by the left, by the people of the social struggles, by the people who are fighting for public care, we hear it and we respect it. We disagree with the ideological core of your position, namely that the response to the problems is the catalyst, the overthrow of capitalism and the abolition of all forms of exploitation. We think it is unrealistic to demand that - by law, I imagine - business in the field of health and medicine and that we should be able to provide free medicines, tests, hospitalisation for everyone for everything, without any participation. This is out of the reality of a country bankrupt, under budgetary supervision and with a suffocating framework agreed with its lenders. On the other hand, let me tell you that there is a populist catastrophe in which the New Democracy is leading, followed by PASOK, it advocates Potami and, above all, coordinates a mediatoral system which - as Paul Paulakis quite rightly said earlier - has had privileged relations with the public health system, is trying to decouple every positive effort we make and is trying to create an image which citizens and, above all, workers in the health system know that it does not exactly correspond to the very difficult reality of hospitals. Because we go to hospitals, we talk to people in full of amphitheaters, we talk to staff, we discuss with colleagues, the scientific and the trade unions. Ladies and gentlemen, the impression is that, of course, we are 'we have a great deal to bear', there is a great deal of discomfort about labour pressure, 'we can't take any more'. However, colleagues in hospitals - and this is an honour for themselves and it is indeed an honour for the public health system - are at the same time telling us that 'Look, above our contract with the state, we are putting our contract with the sick'. And they keep keeping the public hospitals standing, despite the difficulties, why should I tell you something? - they've believed we're not going to break up, we're not going to get worse. Let's slowly meet needs, solve problems, and see that in their daily lives. That's, I think, the difference. They understand that it slowly begins and improves this very bad reality, which you are rightly describing. They start and become areas of moralization in the health system. This policy against CEDEFOP has been behind it, interconnections, client networks and many years' dependencies. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] They see that we are taking action, as I have said before, to strengthen democracy and - let me say - to democracy in the health system. Because there are currently no autocratic phenomena in the health system. There's respect for the fighting world. There is no repression against mobilisations, as there was in previous periods. And, of course, there are also critical reform interventions that are being promoted. One concerns supplies, the other concerns primary care and the third concerns mental health. And so I answer to the river shot, that all we do is pull holes and we don't have a plan and we don't have a vision. Apart from this incredible and shared criticism, I think we have heard no serious counter-proposal from this side. This central politicality, which tells us that there is nothing we can do during the crisis, we are bankrupt, all we can do is manage our misery. No, we don't believe that thing. We believe that in this difficult financial environment, in fact, there is room for it. We have shown that we can save and rationalise expenditure. From a single call for serological blood control, the health system has gained, since its concentration, 20 million, and that was the equivalent for the five-euro, so we did not allow the institutions to reintroduce the debate on this issue. And one of the artificial kidney filters has been saved by the EEAY and along with the public health system over 5 million euros. And from relocations of public structures in primary care in private buildings, we have saved over 4 million euros. We invest these in the health system, we don't throw them into the black debt hole, nor do we serve the lenders. There is, therefore, a political plan that says: universality, equality and quality of services for the world, reorientation of public resources into public structures, a turn to primary health care and prevention, an emphasis on rights, democracy in the system. This is the political plan and this political plan goes on to say 'Economicist'. We are not going to the Economist to say about private sector investment. Of course, if there are also investments in a country that needs development, if there are serious investments, we will discuss them. But we are investing in the public system right now. We open the Santorini Hospital in 15 days, hiring doctors and other staff. This is a development momentum in the health system. It doesn't correspond to the image and destruction of the collapse. We did not allow the health system to collapse last year that was a difficult year, of course we will not allow this debate to continue. The system will be stabilised, upgraded and workers will be able to look forward and, above all, to better services. The issue of uninsured people has been debated very much. We did not say that we could bring the 2.5 million uninsured citizens into a more privileged position than the insured. Because that's what you're asking us for. You tell us to put them in a more privileged position than the insured.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u226	Of course, that's what we're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u227	Why not?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u228	We can't do it. How can we do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u229	We could not do that, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u230	That's not what you can do. But can you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u231	We couldn't do that, of course, because we have a country bankrupt. Because we're financially close, we're close to resources. That's why. And until there's a fair tax system, which...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u232	The tax exemptions you went and voted for the big chapter? You should find them from there.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u233	Allow me, my dear colleague, that is exactly what I wanted to say now. So until there is an efficient intervention in the tax system, which redistributes wealth and can increase public revenue - and there is a systematic effort to do so - we manage a very specific budget and we are really doing our best. And to uninsured people, then, we have ensured that they do their examinations, their operations, their exact treatments, anything they need free of charge in the public health system, as are the others who are insured. This is secured and finished. What is needed, of course, is that the health system is capable of meeting need and demand, and that is why we are trying to speed up things. We said their medicine would be treated the same as the insured, except for the privileged patients who have so far taken their medicine free of charge from the hospitals. We have planned to leave this regime, to be able to get it back free of charge from private pharmacies, by transferring the expenditure to the EEAS. We're in the transition phase. We have some technical difficulties with the systems.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u234	I'm sorry, because it was the last one. They won't pay anything for drugs. It's just going to change the space.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u235	No, we're not going to...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u236	Three hundred more people go to the hospital in Nice and another one...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u237	Listen, it is a matter of dignity and equivalence for these people to be able to take their medicines normally from private drugs such as the rest of the world. And after all - it is irrational to incorporate in hospital expenditure a medical bill for extra-hospital care. We're in a phase...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u238	The question is this and don't get confused. Will they get them free from the hospital? Will they pay 2 euros? Two are the questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u239	Let me reply. We have said that this welfare-protected population, a population of the most deprived people, will not be charged with the medicine. It's over. We will ensure this in every way at this time. As they used to take their medicine free of charge from hospitals, so will it be in the next phase. Now, what we have done also concerns the uninsured people who are in the humanitarian crisis bill's income status, namely those who are entitled to free feeding, free grant of electricity, rent and are a hundred and fifty thousand families. In other words, we have said to these people who are covered by the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Social Solidarity these benefits, and to these people, if they are not in a pro-active state, that they should also take their medicines free of charge. This was the intervention that has been made, this bankrupt Greek state, because of the left government, has dealt with the most extreme poverty in this way. That's what we can do now. If tomorrow, tomorrow, things are getting better, a little normalised and the economy relaunched and we have a greater budgetary capacity, we will obviously extend the logic of these measures. I conclude by saying that I think this debate always has its worth. We are not going to solve the problems of public care in some sort of magical way, however systematic we are trying to do. And most people have realised we're doing this. Every good person in the health system has realised that this political leadership has also the sensitivity, it also has the political will to support public care as a priority. We will therefore continue to do this by sincerely speaking in the world - and I think that is highly appreciated - and by trying in every way to maintain our credibility with the people of the public health system who really hold public care up today, and by trying to make relief interventions for the many, for the citizens, because that is exactly what the world needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos. Mr Karathanasopoulos has the floor to add something as a parliamentary representative of the questioning party.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u241	The same record you have, Minister, with the previous ones with some variation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u242	The same account?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u243	With some variation. Of course!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u244	I'm surprised, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u245	Not at all. Why did you say? Loaded country we have, so we have to be patient. The rest of us were saying the same thing. Charged country exists, be patient. When the recovery comes, problems will be solved. And when the recovery comes, it's going to be allotted. Look at that, 'will the recovery come', do you know how to deal with it later? You will face it with the logic of keeping the recovery, so be patient, let us give more tax incentives to capital to maintain recovery and competitiveness, and let us keep wages frozen and reduce staff. That's your account. Now you're telling the world that we're a bankrupt country. Of course we're a bankrupt country. Who bankrupt her? The people? The capitalists didn't go bankrupt? Who do you stand for? The people to save him from bankruptcy or capitalists to be saved and able to bring the recovery of those who went bankrupt the country, as you say? You support the blame, the guilty one. And after all, if it were the situation as you describe it, why are the measures taken and the philosophy taken in other countries of the European Union that have not been bankrupt and are not in memoirs? The sustainability, the competitiveness of public units is within the policy of the third package of the European Union 2014-2020. The commercialisation of health, the individual involvement of each other is within this philosophy and logic and in non-banked countries. Why? Because the capital must be competitive. Public spending must be further compressed and individual responsibility must be increased for either education, health or anything. The waste case and the parties that took place are too much worn. Of course, they were doing these things, they were done and they were done. But look at this...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u246	For 'will', make yourself a little patient.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u247	I'll tell you what's gonna happen. Look at you, you say that health expenditure has been reduced by 35% at least since 2009.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u248	Over 40%.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u249	More than 40%? Over 40%! What was that about? Was the waste involved in these expenditures reduced?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u250	A big part, yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u251	A small part was wasted, because most of us have staff reductions. Do we have staff reductions in public hospitals? Sure. Do you have wage cuts? Sure. Do we have unpaid on-calls?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u252	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u253	Of course, there are on-calls made and not paid, because there is a wall and a limit.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u254	We gave you 37.5 million more on-calls.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u255	Thirdly, the world, the patient, the people are more involved? Therefore, the reduction of health expenditure on the pretext of combating waste has led to the reduction of the services provided to the people of medical care and its greater supply. And after all - under the script I said that the waste is not going to fall, because you've put the wolf in the fold. And the wolf inside the mantle is private capital, private business groups that continue to perish both in the health sector, either through health benefits or through the distribution of consumables, machinery, medicines, etc. And as long as the wolf stays in the fold so he won't see the sheep healthy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. The debate on No 27/21/26-5-2016 is adjourned on the painful consequences of government policy on health. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-01-S1-commons.u257	With the consent of this House at 16.00 noon, the sitting for Monday, July 4, 2016, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
