ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-10-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the debate on the topical and urgent questions, I have the honour of announcing to the House the issue of Friday 11 November 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 184/8-11-2016 topical question by MP I Piraeus of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Helen Stamatakis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the staffing and exploitation of the Poros Tree Station. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of New Democracy, Eleftherios Ausgenakis to the Minister of Economy and Development about the "bone" of public works due to Law 4412/2016 on public procurement. 3. The 189/8-11-2016 topical question by MP Evia of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about "the effort to protect the property of Greeks in Himara, which is equitable with uprooting". 4. The 190/8-11-2016 topical question by V Vice President of the Parliament and MP Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Health, on the range of use of telemedicine in Greece. 5. The 185/8-11-2016 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, Minister for Research and Religious Education, on the immediate coverage of educational gaps in the professional high school of Crete. 6. The 183/7-11-2016 topical question by Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, Potamios Spyridon Lykoudis, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the problems of urban transport in the capital. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 179/7-11-2016 by MP Evros of the New Democracy Mr Anastasios Prussaki to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy on the establishment of a Port Academy in Alexandroupolis. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 186/8-11-2016 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Ministers for Culture and Sports, on the situation in the National Sports Centres (ESAK) and Municipal Sports Centres. 3. The 160/1-11-2016 topical question of the Radical Left Coalition, Maria Triantafyllou, to the Minister of Tourism, concerning the completion of the work of Marina Meslogi. 4. The 157/31-10-2016 topical question by MP Halkidiki of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Save Vlachos to the Minister of National Defence, on “direct border closure, guard by the Armed Forces and a referendum on illegal immigration”. 5. The 152/31-10-2016 topical question by Independent MEP II Athens Efstathios Panagoulis to the Minister of Finance, on “if the Minister of Finance and his relatives returned their money to the Greek banks as he urged the Greeks to remove the “capital controls”. 6. The question asked by MP Evia of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Michou to the Minister of Finance about the "scandal" sale of TRAINOSE against the incomplete price of EUR 45 million. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 119/18-10-2016 topical question by Independent MEP B' Athens Mr Theocharis Theocharis to the Minister of Health, on the shortcomings in medical machines that endanger the health and life of patients. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 31/3-10-2016 question by the Independent MEP Lakonias Leonida Gregorakos to the Minister of Finance about the compensation of shareholders of cooperative banks. Ladies and gentlemen, the Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs presents its reports to the draft laws of the Ministry of National Defence: A. JUDGMENTS OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE AND THE COURT OF FIRST INSTANCE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES ‘Modification of Amendment No 2 to the Agreement on Administrative Nature between the Ministry of Defence of the French Republic and the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic on Cooperation in the context of a Technology System for the Demonstration of Unmanned Fighting Aircraft (Vehicule Aerien de Combat Sans Pilote, UCAV)’. B. Other: ‘Structuring the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria on cooperation within the Polynational Coordinating Centre for Marine Strategic Transports of Athens (POSECTHAM - AMSCC) and the Technical Arrangement between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of Bulgaria on the implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria on cooperation within the Multinational Coordinating Centre for Maritime Transport (POSTHM - AMSC)’. C. Other: ex II. ‘Principle of the Technical Agreement between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Head of the General Staff of the Republic of Turkey (acting on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Turkey) and the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Minister of Defence of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain, on the staffing, administration and support of the EUROCORPS General (European Military College) NATO EUROCORPS (NRDC EC) and other provisions’. Also, Ministers for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Home, Economy and Development, Education, Research and Religion, Work, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Economic, Health, Administrative Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Migration and Maritime Policy tabled yesterday, 9-11-2016, draft law: ‘Integration of Directive 2000/43/EC on the application of the principle of equal treatment of persons irrespective of racial or ethnic origin, Directive 2000/78/EC establishing a general framework for equal treatment in employment and work and Directive 2014/54/EU on measures to facilitate the exercise of the rights of workers in the framework of the free movement of workers, 22, 23, 30, 31 par. 1,32 and 34 of Regulation No 596/2014 on market abuse and repealing Directive 2003/6/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and Commission Directives 2003/124/EC, 2003/125/EC and 2004/72/EC and incorporating Directive 2014/57/EU on criminal sanctions for market abuse and Implementing Directive 2015/2392, III) incorporation of Directive 2014/62 on the protection of the euro and other currencies against counterfeiting by means of criminal law, and replacing Council Framework Decision 2000/383/JHA and IV Recommendation of the National Obligation Investigation Mechanism in the security bodies and employees of detention centres." It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. I also have the honour to inform you of No 2. Page 128 17375/12081 of 8 November 2016 This decision has been posted to Parliament's Transparency and will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-10-S1-commons.u2	I also have the honour to inform the House of the reasons for this. Page 128 17343/12067 of 8 November 2016, by the President of the Parliament, “Definition of Jurisdiction of the Permanent Committees of Public Administration, Public Order and Justice and Production and Trade”. This decision has been posted to Parliament's Transparency and will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-10-S1-commons.u3	I also have the honour to inform the House of the reasons for this. Page 128 17374/12080 of 8 November 2016 the decision of the President of the Parliament was created by Rule 46 of the Rules of Procedure of the House for the Second Session of the Parliamentary Period. This decision has been posted to Parliament's Transparency and will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-10-S1-commons.u4	Member Elena Rapti requests permission from a short-day absence abroad from 9 November to 11 November 2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-10-S1-commons.u5	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of Question Time. Two topical questions will be discussed, which will be answered by the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Evangelos Apostleou. First we will discuss the second question by number 170/3-11-2016, first question by MP Carditsa, New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Tsiaras, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on problems in the payment of the single payment. The honourable Member, Mr Konstantinos Tsiaras, has the floor for developing his question. You have the floor, Mr. Chiara.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-10-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I am addressing you because, for about a week now, we have seen a phenomenon which, at least as we all recognize, has caused a great deal of difficulty in the agricultural world. Of course, I am referring to what you are aware of, that more than fifty thousand beneficiary farmers did not see 70% of the single payment paid as an advance on their accounts. The justification for this was that there was no link between the Ministry of Finance and OPEKEPE, so that all of them seemed to be non-active farmers and that the solution to the problem, i.e. the yield of these money, about two months later, was referred to close to the Christmas season. It must be admitted that this is perhaps the largest amount expected of the average farmer, especially at this time and, of course, in the light of a growing activity, I would say. To a very large extent, all this number of farmers calculated to be supported by this amount of single payment. At the same time, you know - and it has been accepted, at least on a previous question, which I myself submitted to the relevant Minister for Labour - that, by amending the insurance law, farmers will actually be asked to pay increased insurance contributions from the beginning of the year, not to mention the tax data that have changed. The question to you, Minister, is specific: on the basis of this landscape, which we are all aware of at the moment, namely a great deal of liquidity, but much more potential, which exists in the Greek economy and, of course, a reality which also affects Greek farmers, what initiatives are you going to take, so that this problem, which has been observed and I imagine is also in your absolute knowledge, will be dealt with as soon as possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-10-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Constantine Chiara. The Minister for Rural Development and Food has the floor to develop his prototype for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-10-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, first of all, following a great effort at the Ministry of Rural Development, we paid the beneficiary farmers 70% of the basic aid for forty days earlier than last year. We also know the needs of rural space for liquidity. We must, however, approach, based on the real situation and how the real figures are shaped. On the night of October 27, they entered the accounts of the farmers who are entitled, 770 million euros. Sixty thousand people applied. Of these, the beneficiaries of basic payment entitlements are six hundred and eight thousand. The remaining fifty-two thousand are paid by the measures of the rural development programme and the associated aid. They are obliged to apply for rights, but they do not establish rights, due to the payment made through the rural development programme and the associated aid. Another sixty-six thousand five hundred farmers were not paid at this stage, because the amount they were entitled was under 250 euros. They were entitled to 70% of the deposit. That is what the Rules of Procedure provide for. Therefore, they will receive a total of EUR 250 in the next payment of the balance of the basic payment. And we estimate - because this happened last year - that a very large proportion of these farmers will get them. From there on, the people you mention as fifty thousand are two and a half thousand farmers. They are the ones who have this particular problem, which, of course, was created because cross-checking, carried out in computerisation, has been identified, which do not meet the criterion of the active farmer, the active farmer, which is a basic prerequisite for granting basic aid. I am going to deal in detail with this and how we will deal with it. So I have to tell you that five hundred sixty-seven thousand farmers have taken 770 million euros. I would like to supplement - because there is indeed a problem of liquidity, as you say - that by the end of the year farmers will receive another EUR 1.1 billion, for the rest of the basic - greening - of balance sheets, payments of rural environmental actions under the rural development programme and other delays, so that we can close this year completely. In other words, Mr Colleague, this period by the end of the year farmers will receive over EUR 2 billion. And believe me, such payments at this time have never been in the rural area before.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-10-S1-commons.u9	Thanks to the Minister for his prototype. Mr Constantine Tsiaras, Member of the Parliament of the New Democracy, has the floor for his denunciation in his timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-10-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, to be honest with you, I was expecting you to tell me something so that I could judge it. You kept it for your second. It's your right. However, to give me all these figures, which are quite well known to us, in that it is a recurring annual procedure, obviously does not contribute to the logic of answering a question but to the logic of a report which, in one way or another, can be known to us through any parliamentary procedure - and not just - procedure. The number you mentioned, I would like you to prove it to me. And that's not what I'm used to, but I'm going to tell you that maybe that's the number that only relates to my constituency, to Karditsa, and not to the entire Greek territory. And we must at some point take all this practice into account in a reasonable direct response to the solutions that exist. Because by there are real farmers who are addressing OPEKEPE, they accept or hear as an excuse that they are not active farmers, you realise that, beyond their practical weakness, they cannot deal with the specific economic problems they have due to a lack of liquidity, there is another question that has to do with the morality of the whole reality. The truly active farmer cannot be seen as an inactive farmer due to the inconsistency, inefficiency and inefficiency of the services between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Rural Development. It is an issue that is affecting - I imagine - a total of not only you, but the image of any Greek state towards the Greek farmer, who actually remains the last lever of the Greek economy. In addition, Minister, I will tell you on the occasion of this question that, in recent years, perhaps through a logic - I will accept it - which is attempting to put a class in the landscape, choices or directions are made which, to a very large extent, will cause us a problem in the next year. And of course I am referring to the fact that many farmers may not have the right to Community aid in the second and third years. Of course I'm not talking about farmers alone, I'm talking about Greece. At some point the government must understand that, following this great attack on the whole business world, on the professions as a whole, this attack cannot continue in the rural world. Finally, we all have to agree on self-evident. We know that primary production is one of the latest possibilities for our country to get away from this vicious cycle of economic recession. I would like to believe that in a spirit of at least seriousness, consensus and consistency we will be able to give answers to the whole of the rural world. However, in closing my second speech, Mr President, I will insist, waiting to see what initiatives the Minister will take in order to speed up the process of advanceing the single Community aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-10-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chiara. The Minister for Agriculture and Food Mr Apostolos has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-10-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, first of all we are talking about two and a half thousand farmers in relation to the six hundred ninety thousand who have asked for basic aid. Of these - literally by mentioning the figures - a thousand five hundred sixty nine did not fulfil the criterion on the basis of what the General Secretariat of Public Revenue of the Ministry of Finance identified. For the remaining nine hundred eighty-one, the Ministry of Finance has not been able to complete the procedure for the clearance of the income tax. We are in contact with the Ministry of Finance and will soon be settled so that in the next payment, which is next month, the farmers in question are also entitled to what they are entitled to. From there on, let me tell you that the only attack was not carried out in the rural area. Only two cases will I report to you. For the first time in our country of business, such as agriculture, it has a tax on pensioners. In other words, we are talking about a cover, which is, of course, about more than 95% - 97% of Greek farmers who will not pay a single tax in the new year. If you think that's an attack, I can't understand it. Of course, as in insurance, if you remember, the whole process was - and you said it - to link the tax to the insurance. That is what we have done in our accounts so that the farmer can also benefit from the national pension. This is very important. Because if we left things the way they were going, we would have zeroed the agricultural pension, the agricultural aid. We have therefore introduced national pensions in place and indeed, by making it easier for the farmer, so that his social security contribution is equivalent to 70% of the minimum wage. And by a process of five to seven years of transition, through which, in relation to tax-free allowances, the farmer was finally coming out again. Now, do not tell me that these are not important to an area that does have a problem. Moreover, you should know - and everyone knows - that it is the only place that has endured the crisis more than the rest of society, which is in trouble. And, of course, the evidence shows that it has been on an upward path not only his income but, above all, the exports of agricultural products that is this tool that will give us great relief in space.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-10-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We move to the fourth with number 176-7-11-2016 topical question of the F' Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning contract workers in the regional Agricultural Applications and Fertiliser Analysis Laboratory (PGIAL). Mr. Lambroulis, F Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece for two minutes, has the floor to develop his question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-10-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. The timely question we have put to the Ministry of Rural Development and Food concerns contract workers in the Regional Agricultural Application and Fertiliser Analysis Labs, the so-called EAGFs, and it concerns the termination of contracts between these workers, those contractors, who have been in existence for over a decade with various contracts, renewed contracts, working in these workshops. In particular, the ending of the contracts relates, for example, to the question - Thessaloniki, where contracts for contract workers expire in PGIs on 18 November, that is, next week, in Larissa on 18 December, but also in Attica on 31 December. In parallel to this, we put the question and the issues of the delay in the adoption of the Joint Ministerial Decision on the implementation of the new Agricultural Development Programme 2014-2020. The situation, therefore, which is to be shaped by a pause of contractors' work at the Regional Agricultural Application and Fertiliser Analysis Labs, will certainly have a significant impact on the workers themselves, but will also create great problems in the functioning of the EAGFs. So the questions, Mr President, to the Minister are as follows: What measures will it take to ensure that workers in PGIs remain contracted by joining the Ministry's permanent staff and the integration of the programmes undertaken by these workers - and, respectively, the PGIs - into the objectives of the Ministry itself? In addition, our question is and what measures will be taken towards the recruitment of additional permanent staff to the services of the Ministry, so that they are upgraded and able to meet the necessary controls and needs of farmers. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-10-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis. Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-10-S1-commons.u16	Mr Colleague, we are concerned about the problem. We are, however, obliged to approach it, to deal with it through a specific reality created by the Rural Development Programme and by what ended and what we started to implement. You are referring, of course, to the programme concerning the treatment of nitrates, a measure which really aims to restore the environment by reducing applied fertilisers, water consumption and, in general, the creation of ecological compensation areas. The services of the Ministry of Rural Development are indeed responsible for the implementation of this measure, and, of course, - I am referring to the Agricultural Development Programme of the previous period - after a decision of the Minister for Rural Development, it has been entrusted to the former Regional Agricultural Applications and Fertiliser Analysis Labs, which, throughout Greece, employ twenty-one people whose contracts expire 18-11-2016 and 31-12-2016. This is a specific contract, which is in the context of the programme I mentioned to you. It concerns recruitment for temporary programme needs which are subsidized or financed by the Rural Development Programme. Inside, therefore, the nature and needs of the workers concerned are specified. We had a contract that was for one year, we renewed it for the following year, but within the Agricultural Development Programme 2007-2013. Ends this programme, ends the contract, there is no possibility of renewal of the contract in the previous programme. So now we are talking about the new programme, which is of course of concern to us. In my dentistry, I will tell you that we are making an effort, but the conditions have been differentiated. You should know, Mr President, that unfortunately over 50% of the European Union's regulations concern the operation of rural areas throughout the European Union. You are aware that the difficulties of implementing the Regulations are causing us problems like those we are discussing today. But I will tell you, in my dentistry, what we are doing to solve this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-10-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr George Lambroulis, Member of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-10-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. He was told by the Minister for the contribution of the workshops, the PGIAL, that is. Of course, it is not only about the laboratory tests included in the agri-peripheral programme for reducing nitrates from agricultural sources, the so-called depopulation, and in which, for example, some 11 000 farmers are included in Thessaly. Alongside this activity of laboratories, laboratories themselves contribute to ensuring control of soil, plant tissues, leaves, irrigation water, fertilisers, both to individual producers and to cooperatives, to producer groups, etc. At the same time, in cooperation with producers, growers, they are given information and advice to deal with - in practice - problems and issues arising in terms of plant protection, fertilization, the nourishment of crops by contributing to the production process of quality agricultural products and, at the same time, the protection of the environment, to the reduction of pollutants in soil, but also to surface and groundwater. Under the existing regime - Minister, this is true, the workers themselves are saying it - permanent staff and contractors are not sufficient for the necessary and necessary activities required of agricultural crops. In spite of the valuable efforts of the existing staff - the permanent and contractors, which are being made through the timely question - we have the continuing downgrading of the services of the Ministry, with the existing establishment plan, with the great shortages of staff, with sub-financing. So all this leads laboratories to such a situation that cannot meet the necessary controls and needs of farmers. It is understandable that the next time, that is to say, the conventions to which we referred earlier, the services of the PGIs will be weaned by staff. For example, in Larissa, in the specific PGIAL structure of a total of twenty-five employees are thirteen contractors. With this staff, they cannot respond to the needs, because they do not only cover Thessaly, they also cover neighbouring prefectures of other regions. So the impact will not only be on workers who will be unemployed, with what this means to themselves and their families, especially at this time of the capitalist economic crisis, but will also create huge problems, as I have said, in the operation of the workshops. So this is where he wants, Mr Minister, concrete action. That is why we have asked for the question here in Parliament, so that you can tell us in particular whether these workers will continue to work there. Will the Ministry's workshops and services be enriched with new staff, necessary in the direction of all the activities carried out by PGIAL? Of course, the tampering of the European Union's CFP regulations stands above all in our country. It wants a conflict here, it wants a break with these policies, it also wants opposition. So, what are we gonna say? Because there is this regulation of the European Union, 'greater fire' - let me say it, Mr President - and this part of the control of agricultural production, which is important and which you know very well? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-10-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and how two students and students and three teachers from the 9th General High School of Amarousi. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Children, as you know, the House has two main tasks, directions, tasks: one is to legislate, namely to discuss and vote for the laws governing the life of the city, and the second is what you are monitoring today, parliamentary control. In other words, there is a review by parliamentarians to the government of certain issues. What is being done today is 'debate on topical and urgent questions'. In other words, a Member of Parliament puts forward a question in five days, one week, the relevant Minister, relating to the subject, is coming to the House and there is a dialogue, with rules. In this case, Mr George Lambroulis, Member of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, has asked the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr Apostolos a question. It has become the first part of the dialogue and we are at a stage when the Minister will give his answer in a second language for three minutes. And that's the end of this process. It is one of the forms of parliamentary control. It is very important, because the parliamentarians control the government and the ministers. It is their answer and it is done through this dialogue procedure, as I have told you. I'm sorry about the intervention, but it was necessary, Minister. You have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-10-S1-commons.u20	No problem, Mr President. On the one hand, students to monitor the rural area process, since it is this area which, at least, ensures us our food. Mr Colleague, I really told you that we wanted these people's experience and we consider it necessary. But if we get into the process that you have said, we should be recruited and all that, you realize that we are escaping from these people, whom we want for this job. What's our problem? Our problem is that with the new Rural Development Programme, in fact, this measure does not involve all these activities that have been carried out so far. As I said, this is the Rules of Procedure and we are obliged to apply it. Otherwise, we will have a corresponding impact on the implementation of the programme. So we are now trying, through regulations and decisions, to resolve the specific problems that exist. The only world of workers who can deal with them is this world, because of its experience, as I told you. So, from the 1-1-2017 that starts the program, we will try - and I tell you again - to get these people to do this work. I cannot tell you any more at this time, because we must take the relevant decision that will lead, in essence, to the taking of these tasks by these people. These things aren't easy. Believe us we'll make a great effort. Now that the rural area is in need of staff, that is what we are all aware of, but given the circumstances that we are experiencing as a country at this time, we cannot make the necessary recruitments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-10-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I shall now read the timely questions which cannot be debated as a result of an impediment, whether of the Ministers or of the Members. It will not be discussed, due to the absence of the Minister responsible, Helena Kountoura, the fourth under No 149/31-10-2016 topical question of the second cycle of MP Chania of the Radical Left Coalition to the Minister of Tourism, concerning the introduction of a legislative framework to deal with the uncontrolled expansion of the phenomenon ‘all inclusive’ in tourism. Similarly, the sixth question will not be discussed under number 144/26-10-2016 in the Second Circuit of the Parliamentary Serres of New Democracy Mr. Fotinis Arabatzis to the Minister of Tourism concerning the "determination of the tourist economy of Samos and the rest of the islands of the northeastern Aegean due to the government indifference". It will not be discussed by the relevant Minister and will be redefined for discussion the first time under No 174/7-11-2016 topical question of the first cycle of MP Drama of the Radical Left Coalition to the Interior Minister, Christos Karagiannides, on the immediate resolution of the problems faced by firefighters five years of obligation. It will not be discussed, due to the impediment of the Minister responsible, and will be redefined for discussion, the seventh under number 147/27-10-2016, a topical question for the second cycle of the MP from the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Ioannis Lagos to the Minister of the Interior, on the "disaster of the property of the Greek people caused by illegal immigrants in Moria Mytilini, Chios and other Aegean islands". It will also not be discussed because of the impediment of the relevant Minister and will be redefined for discussion the eighth under number 99-14-10-2016 topical question by Evia MEP - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Michou to the Minister of the Interior, concerning a thorough investigation into the extensive fires in Chios, Evia and Thassos. We will not discuss the second question with number 1777-11-2016 in a timely second question of Attica MEP of the Communist Party of Greece.Ioannis Giokas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs on the repression and persecution of the struggling students, due to the imprisonment of the relevant Minister Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou (due to his information on the issues of the Ministry). We will not discuss the third question with No 173/3-11-2016 of Ms. Ioannis Saridis, the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, concerning the approval of the medium-term business plan for the Port Authority of Thessaloniki (OLF), due to the impediment of the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy Mr. Kourublis, as he will be present in the vow of officers. We will not discuss the tenth question under number 100-14-10-2016 of the second question by MP II of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the 'breathing action by Turkish agents and their representatives in Thrace', due to unsuccessful commitments - the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Ioannis Amanatidis, has been consulted. We will not discuss the third with No 175/7-11-2016 timely question of the first cycle of the MP Iraklio of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the need to directly institutionalise the special non-confidential account for all businesses, due to a workload of the Minister of Finance, Euklidis Tsakalotou. No debate will be held on the fifth under No 172/3-11-2016 topical question of the First Circuit of Attica of the Independent Greeks Mr. Konstantinos Katsikis to the Minister of Finance, concerning the amendment of the provisions of Law No 2971/2001 "Agialos Beach and other provisions", due to a workload of the Minister of Finance Mr.Euklidis Tsakalotou. No debate will be held on the fifth under No 148/31-10-2016 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Comparison of PASOK - DIMARK KEgeroglou Vassiliou to the Minister of Health, on the completion of the procedures for the recruitment of permanent staff to hospitals in the country, due to a workload of Deputy Minister of Health, Pavlos Polakis. We will not discuss the ninth question under number 88/12-10-2016 of the Second-Cypriot of the Parliamentary Second Thessaloniki Mr.Akaterini Markos to the Minister of Health on the creation of a child hospital in Thessaloniki, due to a workload of the Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Pavlos Polakis. Also, the eleventh question under number 45/5-10-2016 of the National Rehabilitation Centre, Mr. Theodoras Megalokonou, will not be discussed as a matter of urgency because of a workload of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Pavlos Polakis, will be at the National Rehabilitation Centre. The sixth question, under number 166/1-11-2016, will not be discussed because of lack of competence, the sixth question of the first cycle of the Parliamentary 2nd Piraeus Union Mr.Theodoras Megalo-Economist to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the possibility of stopping electricity in the schools of Keratini and Drapetson. Finally, it will not be discussed, due to the impediment of the honourable Member, the first with number 171/3-11-2016, a topical question by the Member of the Parliament of the New Democracy Mr. Eleftherios Aegaki to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the intentions of the Ministry for the adoption of the clarification circulars of Law4387/2016, in order to start granting the main and supplementary pensions to the new pensioners. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-10-S1-commons.u22	With the consent of the House at 10.15 p.m. the sitting is closed for Thursday 10 November 2016 at 17.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's legislative work: according to the agenda distributed.
