ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before we begin the debate on today's topical and urgent questions, I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent debate on Friday, 4 November 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 160/1-11-2016 topical question of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Maria Triantafyllou, Minister for Economy, Development and Tourism, concerning the completion of the work of the Marina Messologist. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 153/31-10-2016 topical question by MP Kavala of New Democracy Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the government promises for the unique fertiliser industry in Greece. 3. The 157/31-10-2016 topical question by MP Halkidiki of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Save Vlachos to the Minister of National Defence, on “direct border closure, guard by the Armed Forces and a referendum on illegal immigration”. 4. The 161/1-11-2016 topical question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Sakis Bardalis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, about the hundreds of eighty (180) workers of the New Karval Fertilizers plant in the Regional Unit of Kavala who have been in racing for five months. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 154/31-10-2016 topical question by MP Achaias of New Democracy Mr Andreas Katsaniotis to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about the "South engraving" in Patras-Pyrgos. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question by MP Evia of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Michou to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the question of “a matter of huge ecological dimensions of the stay of fourteen tons of mercury in Aspropyrgos”. 3. The 162/1-11-2016 topical question of the Attica MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Giokas to the Ministers for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Transparency and Human Rights, on the repression and persecution of the fighters. 4. The 152/31-10-2016 topical question by Independent MEP B' Athens Efstathios Panagoulis to the Minister of Finance, on "if the Minister of Finance and his relatives returned their money to the Greek banks, as he himself urged the Greeks to remove the capital controls". 5. The question asked by MP Evia of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Michou to the Minister of Finance about the "scandal" sale of TRAINOSE against the incomplete price of EUR 45 million. 6. The question under number 123/18-10-2016 by Piratos II Pireos of the Association of Centres Mr.Theodoras Megalonou to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism concerning the treatment of the interference in the Municipality of Piraeus, Perama, Korydallos, Keratini - Drapetsonas, Nice - Agios Ioannis Rentis. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question by No 121/18-10-2016 was raised by MP Kozani of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Theokraktos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the recruitment of workers in the lignite unit "MTOLEMAIDA V" with transparent criteria from OAED's registers. 8. The 119/18-10-2016 topical question by Independent MEP B' Athens Mr Theocharis Theocharis to the Minister of Health, on the shortcomings in medical machines that endanger the health and life of patients. 9. The question by number 63/10-10-2016 of the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister of Education for Research and Religious Affairs, about the depreciation of Rhodes from the cancellation of the establishment of the Department of Tourism, based in Rhodes and English-speaking sections of tourist studies, to be addressed to foreign students with tuition fees. 10. Eleni Zaroulia to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism on the "reduction of the national sovereign administration of justice through the ratification of the CETA Agreement between Canada and the EU". 11. The Question No 79/11-10-2016 by Z' Vice-Chairman of the Parliament and MP of the Athens I of Potamis Mr. Spyridonos Lykoudis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy concerning the regeneration of Rema Picrodafni in Attica Prefecture. 12. The question by No 69/10-10-2016 of the Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism about the proposal - "resurrection" for red loans. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The 26/3-10-2016 topical question by the Independent MEP Mr Leonida Gregorakos to the Minister of Health on the procedure for selecting Directors to the National Health System (E.S.).). In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured at the premises of the House of Greeks and informed about the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-five students and students and three teachers from the 4th Primary School of Alimos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I will announce which of today's topical questions will not be discussed. Elected number 91/13-10-2016 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Union of Centres Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, concerning the approval of the medium-term business plan for the Port Authority of Thessaloniki (OLF), will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the questioner. Nor will the following topical questions be discussed as a result of an impediment to the relevant ministers and redefined for discussion: The first question under number 149/31-10-2016 of the First Cycle of the MP Chania of the Radical Left Coalition, Antonio Balomenakis, to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on the introduction of a legislative framework to deal with the uncontrolled expansion of the phenomenon "all inclusive" to tourism, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister responsible. The first question under number 144/26-10-2016 of the Second Cycle of the Parliamentary Serres of New Democracy Mr Fotinis Arabatzis to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism on the "definition of the tourist economy of Samos and the rest of the islands of the Northeast Aegean due to government indifference", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment of the relevant Minister. The second question under number 147/27-10-2016, with regard to the destruction of the property of the Greek people caused by illegal immigrants in Moya Mytilini, Chios and other Aegean islands, will not be discussed and postponed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Civil Protection Mr. Nicholas Toska. Cause: unsuccessful liabilities. The fifth question under number 99/14-10-2016 by Evia MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister for Home and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning a thorough investigation into the extensive fires in Chios, Evia and Thassos, will not be discussed due to the Minister's obstruction. The ninth under number 97/14-10-2016 topical question of the Second Cycle of the Patriarch of the River, Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the completion of hydroelectric projects in the Mediterranean Trikala, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister for the Environment and Energy Mr. Panagiotis Skourletis. He'll be out of Athens. Also, for the same reason, the tenth question under number 105/17-10-2016 will not be discussed in the second time by MP II Thessaloniki of the Independent Greeks Mr.George Lazarides to the Minister for the Environment and Energy regarding the incomplete maintenance of the Root Distribution Network (DEDHE) in southern Evia. The second question under number 143/26-10-2016 of the First Cycle of the New Democracy MP Marios Salma to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning immediate and permanent measures to protect the Holy City of Messology will not be discussed due to an obstruction of the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Kurubli. Cause: unsuccessful liabilities. The fourth question under number 148/31-10-2016 of the first cycle of the MP Iraklio of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR V.K. Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the completion of the procedures for the recruitment of permanent staff to the hospitals of the country, will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Pavlos Polakis. Cause: workload. The sixth question under number 88/12-10-2016 of the Second-Category of the Thessaloniki Parliamentary, Mr.Akaterini Markos, to the Minister of Health, concerning the establishment of a child hospital in Thessaloniki, will not be discussed. The twelfth under number 45/5-10-2016 a top-level question about the serious shortages of staff and funding at the National Rehabilitation Centre will not be discussed. The third, with number 146/27-10-2016, a topical question by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, concerning measures to combat the smuggling of fuel in the offices, will not be discussed due to an obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism Mr.Theodoras Jackris. He'll be out of Athens. The eighth Question No 100-14-10-2016 topical question by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the "adventive action by Turkish agents and their representatives in Thrace", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Ioannis Amanatidis. For reasons of postponement, there is also a letter from the Secretary of Government. Cause: unsuccessful liabilities. We are now entering the timely questions that will be discussed. We begin with the fifth under the number 150/31-10-2016 top-level question of the first cycle of the Parliamentary 2nd Piraeus of the Communist Party of Greece. Diamantos Manolakos to the Ministers for Home and Administrative Reconstruction and National Defence, on the living conditions in the refugee hospitality centre in Schisto. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Ioannis Mousalas. Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, at the refugee hospitality centre, at the camp, in Shhsto, there are today seven hundred sixty refugees, of whom two hundred seventy are children. They are victims of the imperialist wars and interventions, mainly Afghans, but also victims of the agreement between the European Union and Turkey, signed by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. Let me remind you that the Afghans are not regarded as refugees and, unfortunately, are caught in our country. As far as living conditions are concerned, there are several problems that require immediate measures. They're still living in tents. They made summer in unbearable heat than an extra tent that came in. They also faced other dangers from insects and reptiles. But it's winter. Things make it hard. They are not protected, with the autumn rains flooded scenes, the temperature is falling, the humidity and the cold is slick and the effects on their health are seen. A lot of people have left and gone to Scaramaga and olive grove. I'm saying it's because of the thousand eight hundred left seven hundred sixty. Of course, there are many protests during our visits on the quality and quantity of food, but also on the education programmes for children, which had not started until last week. More important, of course, is the problem that they pose and is the number one that they are caging in Greece. They don't want to stay. It is, however, forbidden to go to countries that have their relatives or family members. What are we asking? Firstly, the decisions that encroach on the refugees in Greece and do not allow them to go where they think they are safer not to be implemented, because they are unfair decisions. Secondly, recognition of the refugee status in all nationalities by countries that accept imperialist interventions, such as the Afghans, should be recognised. Thirdly, to ensure human and decent living conditions in all refugee and immigrants' housing areas and to move them directly to decent housing areas, especially for families with children. Fourthly, give immediate winter clothes and special bed linen so that they can cope with low winter temperatures. They should also be reinforced with infrastructure, with washing machines, with adequate toilets, showers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u4	Ms. Manolakou, you have your dentistry to tell the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u5	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that the health services, the state and not the NGOs must take on board and that we must ensure adequate feeding.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u6	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u7	Ms Manolakou, it's very reasonable to ask the timely question you're asking. I am in a position to tell you that, first of all, most of what you put it right and, secondly, that we are already in the process of being treated. First of all, I should like to say to those people: as far as human and decent housing is concerned, the programme is already starting, in which all this is being done and the plan is until 15 December, to replace the tents with houses and with what this implies, for example, with normal heating. Nevertheless, I would like to tell you that at Schisto the scenes are of a polar type, so they ensure from the cold, but you are right, and we are going to tell you that by 15 December we will have placed houses. Winter clothes, what we call "wintering" has already been done for twenty days and has been done throughout Greece. There is also a ready-to-eat stock so that a second dose can be given if necessary. Apart from this will be given immediately a amount of cash to buy galosies, because there it is very difficult to make the purchase and give it to them. The State has responsibility for health services. The state controls primary care over there. In many camps or rather in many camps - please forgive me the expression, I am making an automatic translation of the camp into a camp and it sounds bad - in many refugee camps the primary care is covered by NGOs, under the control of the state as I have said before. Unfortunately, this is money given by Europe to the NGOs, it has not been given to us, and we are trying to make their depreciation through benefits to refugees. Toilets, showers are available and they get better all the time. As far as feeding is concerned, it is a more general problem. The feeding is sufficient. Thermal and in terms of vitamins meet health requirements. Obviously there is a question of whether this food is good or not, which is very difficult to achieve, but we are also trying to do. In my dentistry, I will answer the first two, which are more general issues. I think I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much. Here, Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u9	Minister, 15 December is too late. The containers had to be there all along. You knew these people would get locked up in our country. You have even done psychological preparation in the municipalities too. I was in attendance. From the outset you knew that they would be Afghans in their majority, for which the status of refugee is not recognized. At the same time, this unacceptable, disgusting, inhumane agreement between the European Union and Turkey, which goes against the rights of refugees and migrants and violates international law. There should already be the containers. It's late because low temperatures have already begun and there are families with children. 35% are children in the hospitality center in Schisto. In addition, I would like to say that there are fifty people - child psychologists, support services, etc. - without an interpreter. And with regard to health that you say the state has taken over, they do go and have met doctors from the Air Force Hospital. In recent months, however, they have only been nurses, which means that these people and the additional problems need support. Of course, as far as food is concerned, we do not raise the issue at the base if they like it or do not like it. We are talking with them, and we are raising a question of not responding to particularities. There are people who have sugar, who have diseases, and that is not taken into account. You also did not reply to me about decisions to secure their movement, but also about recognising the refugee status of people who have accepted the imperialist attack both within and through international agreements have the refugee status anyway. Finally, I should like to tell you that we often visit hospitality centres, so that these people understand that they are not on their own, whether refugees or immigrants, that they have people who support and pressure the government for solving their problems. Already last week, local councillors went and visited them, as we are saying - and the Communist Party of Greece will press you for the rights of refugees and immigrants. The government has heavy responsibilities. It applies the same anti-immigration policy as the previous ones. It is the European Union. She's unfair. It's inhuman. At the same time, however, we will also call on the people and especially the labour movement to intensify their struggle against the imperialist war, against the system of exploitation, which gives rise to war, poverty, refugee, immigration.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u10	Mr. Muzala, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u11	I have a deep respect for the history of your party, in its past, in its present, in the way you handle things. But let me tell you that confusing the will and the desire with the ability and the reality is something that does not lead anywhere. You have not made a single specific proposal, for example, on how to send them to Europe. We claim it. How? You say: Identify all refugees. There are conditions which determine who are refugees and who are not. The Afghans are refugees on the basis of the United Nations treaties by 47%. That's true. The Greek Government cannot change it, the JRC cannot change it, the Democratic Reconciliation cannot change it, no party can change it. That's true. A government works with it. Therefore, sometimes fat words are words that do not help.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u12	There is the Geneva Convention, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u13	The Geneva Convention also defines refugees. Read. The containers on 15 December may be too late on the basis of a reality. It's too early on the same reality. Sixty thousand people are housed. You see what's going on in Calais. You see what happens elsewhere, in countries with enormous potential. Are we happy? Oh, no. We are very much trying to send them to Europe, but we need two. We say that the relocation should be made, leaving to Europe. It takes two to do this. I have said this here in the House in reply to other parties. What do you think? Did the government ride white horses to win Brussels, Germany, Istanbul? How are these things? I conclude with this: the conditions are constantly improving. Schisto will be one of what will improve conditions much faster than other camps. There is no question of political problems at all. I don't think we disagree on will. We disagree on the appreciation of reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u14	The pragmatic thing for you is to implement a policy against the rights of refugees!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u15	We move to the sixth question under number 142/25-10-2016 for the first cycle of MP II Athens, Georgios - Dimitrios Karras, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the need to remove or amend the texts referred to in paragraph 5 of Article 16 of the “Social and Solidarity Economy” Act due to an excessive measure in the liability of ordinary members of a Social Partnership (COMNSEP) for the obligations of the manager or President of the Board of Directors to the public and social security bodies. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Urania Antonopoulou. Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister, for your presence. Yesterday we voted in the House on the bill on social entrepreneurship and the solidarity economy. Cooperatives have been supported over time in Greece because they create working conditions, conditions for the marketing of products from producers, small farmers, and have always had the protection of the state, in the sense that the partner, the member of the cooperative never held responsibility for the cooperative's obligations arising from the management or mismanagement of the public, social security institutions or even third parties. The well-known examples are agricultural cooperatives, where liability is limited to the cooperative, forest cooperatives, which were voted on the day before, respectively to the cooperative, with the exception of the unlimited liability of urban cooperatives, which are truly commercial or industrial companies. It is therefore coming to strengthen social entrepreneurship and the explanatory statement states that vulnerable groups will be assisted in order to be able to acquire a small activity. It goes without saying that if the cooperative's responsibilities arise with the public or social security institutions from delays in payment or from breaches of tax or subsidies or any other causes, the manager - called in accordance with the established provisions for management - or the President of the Management Committee may transfer these obligations to members who are made in full solidarity with the whole responsibility of the cooperative. This creates a breach and is a disincentive to social entrepreneurship because, since the cooperative is done without capital, we cannot make the property or even the home of the cooperative members for a mismanagement, a fraudulentity of the manager. Do you, then, consider that this provision should be removed? In the alternative, if you consider that the responsibility for the cooperative should be increased, because it can work better, why not limit the liability of members to the value of the cooperative contribution so that they do not have their property as a whole vis-à-vis the public and social security institutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u17	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say this. As you know, an extensive debate has also been held during the parliamentary and plenary committees, but also in the previous months with social economy actors on the ground. However, I would like to thank you with the question, because I am given the opportunity once again to give some clarification about the philosophy and way in which social and solidarity economic operators operate, such as social cooperatives and workers' cooperatives. I would say that the central philosophy of our law and its direction for social cooperatives and workers' cooperatives are summarized in the words: 'equal rights and equal obligations for all members'. That is why one of the elements that differentiate social and solidarity economic operators from classical private enterprises, but also the cooperative schemes that have been in the past - some healthy, but also some with obvious diseases, which we all know - is the participation and democracy in the production process, namely all the manifestations of the business. One of these views also concerns active participation in the Management Committee or the Management Board for Workers' Cooperatives. Apart from the fact that participation in these institutions is unpaid, our aim is, firstly, that there should be a rotation of members in these bodies so that the administrative burden of a body does not only take on it at regular intervals, but all the participants. Secondly, what we are trying to achieve is what has been submitted to us from the field, that all members must acquire the necessary knowledge of administrative issues. Furthermore, as you will understand, when we talk about democratically run productive units, this means that the decisive body is just the general assembly. The role of the administrator and the Management Committee or the Management Board is therefore strictly executive. He's not decisive. He's executive. So to the extent that all members decide on the future of the company, it would be unfair to burden the failure of the person who at this time is president or manager, especially when we think that this status should be acquired by all the participants and all the members at a certain stage of their participation in the project. [[The end of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] One more minute, Mr President. Therefore, this increased obligation not only responds to the democratic philosophy of the KALO operators - it does not mean that all cooperatives are operators of KALOV, they have the option not to participate in the social and solidarity economy - but at the same time it wakes up, that is, it keeps all members alert to see whether the decisions of the general assembly are being implemented or not. We are of course in trouble with the situation in which the administrator or the chairman of the board of directors or someone on the board of directors develop possible fraudulent mismanagement practices. So that's what we're saying. These members - the others, of course not those involved in fraudulent practices - are adequately covered by the existing legislation on fraudulent practices of managers and presidents. They are adequately regulated by company law, commercial law and, where necessary, criminal law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u19	Madam Minister, briefly, answer the question. Don't make an analysis of the law. You went to five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u20	I'm sorry, let me, because it's hard to answer in two minutes. I'm not an analysis of the law. I would like to reply, Mr President, precisely to the question raised to me. Of course, I would like to say that with regard to the lack of provision in the urban and rural cooperatives that you have at the beginning of your question, two issues arise. Firstly, it is not all urban and rural cooperatives, as I have said, and therefore do not have to operate on the basis of this principle. More than that, I would like to say that, when we codify cooperative legislation, we will have time and time in this House to see what will apply horizontally to all cooperatives and what is not. However, my view is that the lack of this provision that we have put into the law is more of a good practice than conducive to their democratic function.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u21	In conclusion, as far as I can tell, Mr Karras is concerned, the request to withdraw or amend paragraph 5 of Article 16 cannot be accepted. That's the answer. Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to point out that there may be consultation, but it is something different from parliamentary control. Parliamentary control is the right of the Member. Secondly, you have forgotten, Minister, that the law brought by the COMPAs has a legal personality and a commercial property. They're not private, they're not urban cooperatives. They are commercial in nature, they are doing profit-making transactions and the company law you mentioned is also applicable. What does that mean? It means that another is the general meeting that decides on critical, more serious issues and current management. The general meeting does not have the power to decide whether the administrator or the chairman of the Board of Directors fulfils the obligations of the tax, social security bodies or even, if you like, the money in his pocket. This risk is created for the simple members of cooperatives that cannot monitor the current management every day, which cannot have a daily picture of the financial sizes of the cooperative. So insistence on maintaining my responsibility leads me to other thoughts, Minister. Do you want me to tell you what the thoughts I'm leading to? It is in tax law, because in the text of your law you refer to the provisions of both Law No.4321/2015, a law that has come into fulfilment of the Memorandum of Understanding that the responsibility of companies should be generalised. But be careful: in companies such as cooperatives, responsibility is only for the managers, they are not members. They shall be the governors when resolving or merging and those at the time of the governors who have created the responsibilities and the non-payment to the State. So what is now being done is an enlargement which, in my view, is unprecedented and you have transformed social entrepreneurship cooperatives into fellow companies. Is that the purpose of collecting five people? I have here a report on how a COMPA works - and it is there - without funds, without anything. We have rules which may mean at all the responsibilities of managers or presidents. I'll remind you of something. They will claim subsidies under the development law. If they do not manage them properly, and if they are co-financing, will they not be asked to recover them from whom? The manager. The manager tells you beforehand that he will always be insolvent. It will have no property, because it will work out of the wicked, so that if it is aimed at enrichment it will say: "They are responsible for the others. What do I have to lose? I will only win." I think, then, that if you want the maintenance of social entrepreneurship to develop... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. I want to remind you that with the previous n.4019 it did not succeed. The participation of the COMIPs in national income, GDP, is less than 1%. So if you want success, remove the device. I suggest that you accept that they will have a responsibility up to the value of the cooperative share, go up to two times the cooperative share, so that they can obtain guarantees, because in my view this law at this point, which comes and extends responsibility, wants to serve no savings purposes of the state or obligations to social security institutions, but to give an examination that solutions are given to them. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u23	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u24	It's a heavy charge.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u25	I see it under the law, Minister. How's it going to happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u26	I'm sorry, but you will allow me to continue. It's a heavy charge. Here we go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u27	I don't intend to be charged.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u28	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Carras, let the Minister continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I thank you for your question. I did not say that parliamentary control should not be exercised. I said, despite the time spent, thank you. So you started your second-guessing by saying something that is not the case or at least I didn't say. We shouldn't start like this. So I say now that if this demarcates and sets very strict standards, precisely so that there is the mobilisation that there needs to be, between the members and the employees, so that we do not have the phenomena of the past, and the COM.A.S.A. cannot, for example, become an office for rent. As far as management is concerned, there must be control. We therefore support this control precisely through this provision. Apart from helping the institutional framework of the CIS to sustainable development and creating new positions, it introduces a different concept. If we've made a mistake in this or not, it'll prove it. Because the law was only passed two weeks ago, you will give us time to see if there are any such problems and how they arise. And we are sure that the first to come to us, to tell us that there are problems, are the companies themselves, are the cooperatives themselves, which have not yet come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u31	We now go to the questions which the Deputy Minister, Mr Ioannis Tsironis, will answer. The third question will be discussed with number 145/26-10-2016 for the first time in the House of Representatives of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Aivatidis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the need for an immediate solution to the problem of waste management in Corfu. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, Minister, the issue of HYTA Templon is a brazed sanitary bomb. In support of this claim, I will submit a recent study by the International Journal of Epidemiology. This study was conducted in over two hundred and fifty thousand people in Italy, in the Lazio region, where it is documented scientifically that HYTA function is associated with lung cancer and chronic obstructive lung diseases for residents within a radius of five kilometres of HYTA, which operate quite well in Italy. In Corfu, the water-saving horizon is in danger. Let me remind you that Corfu's water supply is self-evident. The European Union has made and made an appeal against Greece, and it is quite clear that the Greek authorities still accept - that is, you - the operation of the HYTA Templon, which operates illegally. In Corfu, of course, there is also the issue of Lefkada. You need to take an express position. Our view is that HYTA Templon should be closed. Public health is at stake. But also, in no case should HYTA Lefkimis operate. Therefore, on the basis of the national strategy that you will have to follow and which you choose, you will have to find an immediate solution, because Corfu really is in danger of turning into a vast dump, due to the exclusion of the HYTA, as happened last summer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u33	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. The question is a characteristic of how our society has been dealing with waste for so many years. The question continues to imply that the waste is too bad, something too dangerous, which I do not know which evil entity loaded us and the state must come to see Zorro to solve. But we're not with the Zorro, we're not with the saviors, we're not with the folk. I would remind you that garbage is not a toxic bomb. The garbage is the food we eat, it's the packaging we buy from the supermarket - fancy and healthy - it's the metals we use and we're paying for it, it's the glass in which we put our beer. It's not garbage, it's not dangerous. What is dangerous is their short-sighted management. So in what happens in Templelon and in these logics of not operating Templelon, but that Lefkim does not work, and that the state should come and get the garbage from us to do it alongside others, the answer is very simple. In fact, we gave it a few weeks ago to the Tower of Elias, which was courageous by the people, who were courageous by local government - because everything starts from local government and well they do and start from local government - to see the problem in the face, to recycle 30% today that we are talking about and to make integrated management. What is integrated management? It's nothing magical. Of course this can not be done if we have the desire to distinguish the flow of our waste, that is to say, to distinguish our waste, which is a valuable fertilizer. What you are buying today in your pots, the compost you're going to buy from the florists, is the garbage of the Austrians and the Germans, which export us as a compost. That's the one thing. The other is glass, paper or metal. That is all, then, and they can be properly managed. And it's easy to manage properly. And that's what we're gonna do in Templon. What do you mean? We even separate mixed waste and get what is valuable in it, and the rest of it, the organic, the deer, that is, for people to understand, we make it dirt and with this soil we cover the residue. Lefkimmi, in fact, can wonderfully function for the residue, because the residue is not strings. The residue does not need even if the aqueduct is high. The remnant - to make people understand it - what is it? They're old shoes, they're cloths, they're plastic pieces that can't be recycled. This is the famous remnant. There's nothing about the toxic. Toxic results from a foolish management. And this foolish management is going to stop nowadays.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u35	Mr Aivatidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u36	Minister, because I recognise your ecological sensitivities - I do not doubt that - I did not call you Zorro, nor told you that we were looking for a Zorro. But because I believe that you are a minister and not a minister, because you have visited HYTA, I invite you to visit HYTA in Templelon and Lefkimmi, you personally. Repeat, I think you're a fighter. We will be there for a fruitful dialogue. But you did not understand anything that we agree on many things, because we are in favour of screening at source, Minister. You've misunderstood my intentions. It's not a matter of party, it's a matter of public health. I would remind you that on 29 June this year in the Special Standing Committee on Environmental Protection, the Secretary-General for Waste Coordination, Evangelos Captain, mentioned the residue in Lefkimmi. However, Lefkimmi also has similar environmental problems. This solution should therefore be rejected. Why does the state not think - you - of integrated management alternatives which may well resemble LondonWaste - of course a nationally integrated company, we are not talking about a private company - in which waste is reused, composted and recovered. In fact, as far as LondonWaste is concerned, what is emitted into the atmosphere is not smoke, but steam after multiple filtering and treatments, and seventy-two thousand homes are provided. So you should think that too, analyse it. And in the context of the national waste strategy, you must act immediately. But the first step - and that is what is of interest to Corfu - is to come to Corfu and discuss. Unfortunately, I have personal experience of a person, my friend, younger man, who I didn't even recognize after a year and a half, who showed a malignant neoplastic disease, because - and I put this in a responsible position - he is in a very short radius from Templon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u37	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u38	Thank you. I think that now - because you rightly referred to European experience - there is no point in European experience and in European strategy the notion of hazardous waste, in addition to industrial hazardous waste, which can indeed be toxic, such as chromium, nickel and other metals, or slag in the steel industry, which we manage separately. In the case of urban waste, the concept of dangerous does not exist. The danger arises from bad and foolish management. So let's make it clear what we're planning and what we're already doing in Templelon. The first thing we do in Templon right now is missing. To exploit biogas produced by the accumulation of waste and to produce energy. That's what's gonna happen and that's what's going to happen. Of course this is a temporary solution again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u39	I've filed pictures of free pipes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u40	Don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u41	There's camera stuff. It's from an on-site autopsy. It's not...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u42	That's not dialogue. It's an interruption, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u43	Excuse me, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u44	Mr. Aivatidis, when they come to sign them, they'll be shot and anyone who wants them will get them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u45	So we say again that we need proper management of organic waste - that is, our waste - which is also the problem. What's wrong with the waste? It's organic, which either shave and create strings - acid fluids, that is - or are the hazardous gases that are produced when you put them all together. So these gases can burn and produce electricity. But that doesn't have to happen when you bury it. This is a temporary management. Marvelously, it could operate a power-using plant, anaerobic, that is, utilization, organic, or aerobic - far more technologically simple - which produces fertilizer, produces compost. As long as we don't mix them up. It's all citizens need to do. Don't get them involved. They must be separate boxes, that is, what the European directive requires and that is what we are doing. As far as the residue is concerned, I would like to say this: what is the residue, as I said? Old cloth, old wood, broken things, which they can't...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u46	You should come to Templon.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u47	But that is not the case, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Aivatidis, excuse me, testify to what you wanted in the Minutes. The Minister will take it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u49	How's it going to happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u50	To be of direct perception.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u51	All right, he'll get it. You don't have a direct perception of the photo. You're on the spot when you're going there. You'll have another minute, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u52	I have a very direct perception of what a dump means. I have a direct perception of what HYTAS means. I have visited my life as an activist, hundreds of HYTAs throughout Greece. I've been to Europe. So don't tell me what a HYTA contains. The Temple has the same urban waste. I'll come to Templon if that problem...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u53	There are runaway ranges.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u54	Well, that's not how it works. Can I speak for a minute without interrupting me? That's not possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Aivatidis, did anyone interrupt you when you were talking? For God's sake, you're a scientist! Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Can I not interrupt for a second and a half?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u57	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u58	Thank you. So I'm just saying again. If the object of the question is for a Minister to go to Templelon, I'm happy to come to Templelon. I'll walk it through Templelon and go into the waste, as I've been to Mavrorachi, as I've been to the Trinity, and as I've been to dozens of other HYTAs in the Race and anywhere else. The story people want to know is what we can do. So I say again: there are garbage, there is organic. Organic can be marvelously made either compost or energy. The rest - glass, paper, metal, aluminium - can be removed and separated and need not be buried and sold and exploited. With regard to the residue - and I am speaking again about the residue - which is absolutely inactive - I tell you what it is made of, it is made up of fabrics, of plastics which are not recycled, of old wood, from things that cannot be exploited - there are two choices around the world. We don't find out about America. Either we use them energy - there are technologies that can produce energy - or if they cannot be exploited because of a small quantity, because these factories that use them are large factories and are likely not to reach the quantity on an island, are buried. It's the last and worst solution to bury. But the burying of the remains does not produce what we are saying here today and we are terrorising. In other words, it does not produce any strings or gases. They are inert materials, which nowhere can cause anything. So they can either be disposed of and stored in Lefkimmi - since we are talking about the residue always - or anywhere else, because there are no problems over there with liquids. They are solid remnants of what we all know, what we know is completely inertial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Minister. The seventh question, under number 102-17-10-2016, will be discussed in the context of a topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning measures to protect the health of residents and the environment, following two environmental incidents in western Thessaloniki. Mr. Triantafylides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you know...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Kegeroglu, please. Mr. Kegeroglu!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u62	Are you giving me my word?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u63	No, I'm not giving you the floor. Stop talking, because the speaker has stopped. Here, Mr. Triantafylides, you have a minute more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u64	Minister, you know - already two days ago, there was a meeting in your Ministry, under your presidency, with the participation of representatives from both the Region of Central Macedonia and the Municipality of Evrosmos - Cordeliou, with the participation of the party leaders - the intense problem with dysosmia in this region, the region, that is, Cordelios, and of course the incident of 4 October on the other side of Western Thessaloniki, in the region of Evcarpia, where there was an intense noise and a cloud of dust from above the site of the TITAN plant. These two environmental incidents make it clear, Minister, that the citizens of western Thessaloniki, the Workshops and now the "union" of Cordelia and Evrosmos, the Vineyards and Menemen, Stavroupoli, Polichni, Meteorians, Evcarpia, Naples and Sicily are not children of a lower god. It is clear that we need to close wounds and inadequacies for decades, shortages in human resources, technological equipment, measuring equipment. But we don't have time. We've got to cut off. For months there has been this intense, unbearable dysosmia. It's impossible to stay even in their homes. There are parallel complaints to the police and the competent authorities. They're tearing people's eyes and they can't stay inside their house. There are complaints that have mobilised justice and there is an intervention by the Prosecutor of Thessaloniki in this matter. It is clear that the state must do something. No, of course, the state in general and vaguely. It is clear that since 1999, the specific competence to monitor the measurement of environmental pollution, atmospheric pollution, has been the responsibility of the regional administration and then of self-government. But we must help, Minister, and a permanent, acceptable, stable, but also a moving mechanism of measurement throughout western Thessaloniki - and not an opportunity of giving - to be able to say to this world, in Cordelio, that we have a certain situation, it comes from there. We haven't even found the source from where it came from. Others - the refineries - say they're from EKO. The refineries say, for their part, 'We have opened up and are waiting for you, to finance the purchase of a mobile mechanism for measuring air pollution'. Are they mercaptans? Is he with hydrogen sulphide? Do we measure hydrogen sulphide? We discovered at this meeting, Minister, Mr. Tsironi, that the only measuring station located in the 2nd Primary School of Cordeli - a stable non-mobile - cannot count either hydrogen sulphide or mercaptans, which may be responsible for this intense dysosmia. On the other hand...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u65	The rest in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u66	That's right. I will mention in particular more on the issue of TITANA and Evcarpia, which is an issue - a problem, an open wound for decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u67	Mr. Chironi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. I wholeheartedly share the anxiety of both my colleague and the residents. I really think we have to deal with chronic pathogens. Unfortunately, the smell in Cordelio is not a new story. You know it and we know it. Unfortunately, we have had to deal with the logic of the second category of citizens for decades. Because, in a few hours' time, the'second' will re-enter theme against a lot of information and the media, I would like to say in this Chamber - and I have said it many times - that pluralism does not mean much media. Well, pluralism means people know what's going on in Cordelio. Sadly, there was total silence for both Cordelia and Aspropyrgos, and for what was happening in all these neighborhoods or what was happening to Ashos. Unfortunately it was a conspiracy of silence, a silence guilty, a silence expelled from economic interests, which certainly did not benefit our country but threw it on the rocks. So here we need to see what we are going to do and how we can resolve the problem quickly. First of all, I should like to make it clear: in the face of silence and of the citizens of the second category - which we do not want to see - we are incompatible. We do not want there to be citizens in the second category, but we do not want there to be any industry in Greece. Unfortunately, in these areas, all industries have left or closed in the past few years - they have not closed in the last year - and only TITAN has left. We need to look for the cause. Indeed - and I am glad you said so - the new administration of the ELPE finances a portable unit. It's necessary for there to be a portable unit. I will now talk about the fixed unit, which exists in Cordelio. The fixed unit counts what is imposed by the European Union. It measures suspended particles up to 10 μg, naturally measures nitrogen oxides and sulphur oxides, counts volatile hydrocarbons, such as benzene and other volatiles, such as toluenes, wood. It counts very dangerous hydrocarbons. That's what the directive requires, that's what all our units do. It's nothing new. So we say today that we find the resources to finance, especially in this unit - because the previous ones I mentioned do not smell, they are too dangerous, but unfortunately do not smell, they are not perceived in the nose - and to measure the reducing factors of sulphur, such as hydrogen sulphide and mercaptans. It's an expense we're going to make. We've found the resources. But I'm afraid that's not good enough. It is not enough for the portable unit or for the station to be enriched. We are in dialogue with the region - because it must be known that it is the region that operates these stations, even though they belong to the Ministry - that a programme should be carried out with the University of Thessaloniki - we also discussed this at the meeting - so that we can, with organized measurements for a long time - and not just counting at a point where a station exists - with cannabis, as the scientists say, with concrete measurements to be able to find the cause of pollution. So we're not reassured. We'll do that. What is important - which is a qualitative difference in democracy - is this: it is not a question of whether it is the responsibility of the region or of the ministry or of the municipality or of the ELPE or of individuals. The point is to join forces - that means democracy - to work with the region, with the municipalities and with the companies, in order to find the cause of evil and heal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u69	Mr. Triantafylides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u70	Now that we're talking, and we're certainly being watched - and I share what the dear President, Nikitas Kaklamanis, said, "on the spot" - I remember that when I was a young student in Thessaloniki, I had gone to Pale de Sports and had heard a speech by Leonida Kirkos, who then said that the problem in Athens was the OSAP, buses. He urged the then Minister: "Mr. Minister, leave your service car, wait until you stop walking, get on a bus to kick your ass and slash them and the anger and indignation that you will feel from your involvement in the problem will turn into a political force and dynamic that will give solution to the problem". I do not want to embrace, Mr Minister, Mr Chironi, a specific ecological folkism, but the one who is experiencing the problem, it is clear that he must have the feeling that the state that is called to heal it, has knowledge and has experienced this particular issue. That is why I should like to remind you - to write in the Minutes and to hear from the people of Cordellio - that you promised and promised that on 1 December you would be there. We will walk together the neighborhoods of Cordellio, we will go to EKO after he says, "I don't have the problem, I open the tanks, count what you want, do what you want, since they don't have any trouble" to finally find the source of evil. I now come to the other issue with the 'TITANA'. You did well to talk about growth, because the government really gives us a rabies fight to create even one job. At the same time, however, this should not be at the expense of the health of the citizens. I see the mobilisations and collectiveities of the citizens of Eucarpia, I see that the citizens and the Municipality of Paul Mela have made protests and struggles, they have made resolutions, they have sent applications for treatment and appeals. However, they have not been able to do so. For decades, they have been constantly complaining about intense noise pollution - I am talking about Eukarya, the Municipality of Paul Mela - and about dust leaks mainly at nights at an advanced time. For those who do not know, I will say that the fortnights in this area - I am talking about the 'TITANA' which produces cement - have now been saturated. There's no other way. I am practically tabling the two unanimous decisions of the City Council on changing the environmental impact conditions for TITANA at the beginning of 2014. Honourable Members have revoked. Minister, unanimously, the municipality, i.e. all the parties, has applied for treatment, to overthrow this decision. Of course what did the decision say? To be able to burn waste from this plant. [[At this point, the Member, Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr President, we are talking about everyday problems. We are not talking about office problems. We are talking about everyday, experienced problems, about new couples who have babies and are shaking their foliage hearts, what it was that broke out on the night of October 4th and took the vatonpress, a specific blog in the area, which took pictures of cloud over western Thessaloniki. What's that? Does it affect health? Here I would like to put another parameter and ask your colleague, Minister for Health, to carry out an epidemiological study on the burden suffered by the population, which the citizens of western Thessaloniki have suffered since the chronic exposure of these suspended particles. So, requesting treatment. There is a clear question here: What are we going to do with the application for treatment? Why cannot this factory use something that is favourable to the environment such as gas, gas - how else can I call it? - and not burning waste, which creates major environmental problems? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u71	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr Papoutsis, for raising so many issues. I will try to answer them very codified and concisely. It is clear that in Greece the industry has a bad coexistence with the citizens. I would remind you that this has been done - and I said it before - firstly, because there has been an immunity, a bad culture that it is okay to pollute, which has been shown not to lead to economic recovery. It is proven that the countries that have the strictest environmental criteria and in which, in fact, the industries neither dig nor dust out and respect all the improper conditions are those which have the best economies are those that are more attractive to the industries. Strangely enough, where industries prefer to go, it is where good rules really exist, because you know that bad rules also create unfair competition. Let me remind you that Greece has only fourteen environmental inspectors - I believe that there have also been thirteen - and from them only four, not in northern Greece but in the northern sector. In other words, from Elassona and above, from Corfu to Thassos and to eastern Macedonia and Thrace, there are four people watching and should go to make these measurements, make compliance reports and infringement reports. It's a tragic situation that we found and we're trying to resolve. It goes without saying that we will walk together, because I know I have a scheduled journey and we are committed to walking together in Cordelio, Paul Mela, in all the neighborhoods and in all the municipalities around there. Now, as far as TITANA is concerned, it is obvious that the ideal would be over a period of time, which would not harm the entrepreneurship and jobs of this type, companies to move away from the urban centres. It is clear that this has to be done. They know it themselves. There must be a serious programming, a long-term timetable that is not always in this matter, and I think the same must be done in the heavily charged neighbourhoods of Attica. They don't have such large industries within the urban fabric. We simply have to give the necessary time. We must, however, make a few points about what such a company burns. Today the cement industries in Greece burn "pet coke". The "pet coke" is a kind of coal, which comes from the final oil residues, that is, the worst. It is also obvious that it would be preferable to burn natural gas. It is no longer a question of European directives burning garbage for two very important reasons: firstly, garbage is too much moisture, so it is not the right fuel for such industries. The second reason is that with the principles of the circular economy, we do not want to burn those materials that can be recycled. These materials must not be burned, because these materials are valuable to our economy. We can't burn a plastic bottle. We can't burn a plastic bag. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be done in half a minute, Mr. President. What the cement manufacturers could use - I said to the previous question - is the right RDF that has certain specifications, which can be derived from the garbage residue - but not the garbage as such - and which, as a fuel material, is better than natural gas, because it has a zero balance in carbon dioxide, that is, in the climate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u73	Minister, this is not a scientific lecture. First he asked you to answer if you would go to Thessaloniki on December 1st. If you answer that, you'll tell the rest upstairs, because you have to close it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. So I close by saying that there is now scientific knowledge to deal with the problems, and there is the political will that was not before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u75	Hey, tell my friend Alexander to be glad if you're going to Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u76	We've already planned the trip.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u77	Good. Go on, Mr. Triantafylides, don't interrupt me from here. Before we go to the last time-limited question, which Mrs Anagnostopoulos was patiently waiting for, I would like to inform the House that eight visitors from the Dortmund State Immigration Foundation in Germany are attending from the top Western theories. I would ask him to explain to them that the Greek Parliament welcomes them to Athens and, of course, to the House. It is also known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-seven students and apprentices and six teachers of their high school "Homomo educandus lawsuit" Corinthia. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Last will be discussed the fourth with number 151/31-10-2016 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the relocations of students and students to the Greek HEI and ATE. Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, today we bring to Parliament the question of relocations. It is an issue that concerns thousands of people's families, who have achieved with a thousand sufferings and a lot of costs for their children to succeed in a university or HEI. Based on the data published by the Ministry of Education, we have a fairly large increase in applications for relocation of more than two thousand. Last year more than 12 thousand. Only this issue can be an even more intense manifestation of the pressing needs of the people's families, for their children to study at their homes, unable to do so in another city where their children may have succeeded. The question is that with these published figures of the Ministry of Education, of more than 12 thousand applications only 44% of the applications for relocation were met. That's not half. The remaining 56%, over seven thousand applications, you rejected them. But we must say here that this 56%, these more than seven thousand applications, are children, Minister, which are difficult, as I said, to study away from their homes, as they have to pay for food for travel, apart from all the others, a university that is increasingly commercialised. In practice, the rejection of these seven thousand students and students' applications means depriving the vast majority of these children of their right to access education. It's another manifestation of class barriers, no matter what. What we ask of the Ministry and of you, Minister, and of course we ask you, is what you will do so that none of these children who have applied for, who meet the criteria, have been able to catch the molecules that are needed, what are you going to do so that they do not lose their studies, can be facilitated in every way, so that these children can carry out their dreams, so that they can study in a few words.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u79	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, it is a good thing that this question is being asked, because we have to put some things in place. Firstly, because we have great care for all students and all students to be able to study, and in this economic crisis that we are in, we have taken care this year for the first time, as long as the institution is concerned, of the translations being made at the beginning of the academic year and not in the middle of the academic year towards the end, as has always been the case, which we have experienced. I would also like to say here why it has to be heard that, in the interests of the enormous efforts made by both the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Finance - to see that the services are working when the political leadership is targeted and strategy - which have worked all summer, interoperability has been carried out between the ministries. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, translations are made primarily with income social criteria for economically impossible students. So, at the beginning of the academic year, the results were obtained within a week. We had 11 and a half thousand valid applications, those who were entitled to do. They got the five thousand, about two hundred. You know very well, Mr Colleague, since last year that again the government's political leadership, which is, and now, has taken care of since last year by ministerial decision, to put the institution of objections. So we now have objections that we will consider. They're leaving tomorrow, too. To be clearer, people who have social and economic criteria, as they did last year, and who have not been translated into the first phase... [[Noise in the Chamber]] When they become wells, there can't be a human being, you guys, in here. It can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, if you are at the door, please come out and talk to us to finish parliamentary scrutiny. Thank you very much. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u82	You know, then, Mr Colleague, that the first phase is over, that the objections are followed and, as we do last year, we do our impossible, that at least the social and financially impossible students should study away from home. The second important thing. We have established the exceptional transcripts. We had until last night a thousand six hundred applications. We have widened the range too much, so that we can satisfy those who really need, because of these ten and a half thousand - you will agree, too - they are students and students who have one or zero molecules or two molecules, which means that they do not have the economic criteria. So we will see to it that as many people as possible are satisfied. I mean, something you know last year, and both students and students know about it. Despite the fact that we have the binding decision of the Council of State, we are trying as far as we can, without circumventing it, to widen the limits that had been extended by the law of 2015. However, I would like to say something about what you are saying, about the commercialisation of institutions. That's what I want to stay for a minute. This is the first time that university writings, for example, have the right to take writings by the people who pass under class exams, with a second degree. Universities entered the writings and the students and students of the OSH, the Open University. We are trying to expand as much as we can and you know - and I think you agree - that we do not have a magic stick, to solve all the problems immediately. One last point and, if necessary, I'll come back. The two thousand seven hundred grants we are giving - we had the approval of the money in the summer, and unfortunately we did not have time to open the scholarships in September - will be opened in the next few weeks, which means 500 euros a month for offsite residence. I think it is a fairly important aid, which shows the care of the Ministry's political leadership, that no student should stay outside the universities and the TEI.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u83	Before I give the floor to my colleague, I would like to inform you that Mr Constantine Tsiaras is calling for a two-day absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u84	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u85	Madam Minister, I think that you have not reassured not our concerns and concerns, but the concerns and concerns of the students who submitted the applications and who, as you have said, are about a hundred and a half thousand are valid, thus substantiating their right to receive reciprocity. You have not reassured them with what you have said or with the exceptional translations, which, as you have said last year, will reasonably be very few or in accordance with the procedure of objections. Based on the experience of last year, we do not think that the whole will be met - because that is what we are calling for - the fulfilment of valid applications, that is, of the children, of the families who, in any case, meet the income and social criteria. Of course, about the molecules in the way you have introduced them, starting with very low income criteria, one can say a lot of things. You also spoke of the two thousand eight hundred scholarships. I think it's a drop in the ocean, maybe it's the pill you're gold for all our students live up to. I want to say a few words about the fact that it seems contradictory that the applications are valid, but these children, these students, although they are entitled to, do not receive the relocation. Here comes 15%, which you have enacted by ministerial decision - I mean your government - and this 15% of the relocations on all of the admissions of a school are what plays the role of a cutter, Minister, and leaves most of the people who are entitled to relocate. I will once again say that the children whose application is refused and comforted with the right to object or exceptional transcriptions are at risk of being left out of study, most of whom are at least, because in any case several children have taken care in advance of completing their computers, of dealing with this possibility, but also with the children who have spent in other schools have a serious problem of studying. What we also want to raise is, because there are various excuses from the university schools, we had last year and the incident, so to speak, with the architectures - that it is your Ministry's responsibility to strengthen them with teaching staff and, of course, with the appropriate infrastructure. Of course, what we are asking for is not a policy that you too are implementing to the limits of your own government. As for the university, business you wanted to talk about, I think it's a reality. University, business as well as its external relations with the market, as well as its internal relations with students, who increasingly put their hand in the pockets and writings and in general for student care.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Delia, please finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u87	It's a reality and you can't deny that. What we are asking once again is for them to be satisfied, for all students whose applications have been judged in good time. This 15% should finally be abolished and all the fair requests made by students, who in passing are not waiting, organized, fighting. Today it is the great pan-educational rally, which has as its demand the issue of relocations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u88	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u89	Mr Delis, I really am amazed, because you say half the truth, but it is not true. The application does not substantiate a right of relocation, the criteria shall substantiate a right of relocation. An application may have been made by anyone. With zero or one or two molecules, there are no social and income criteria. "Take all those who have applied", that is really populism and will not favour students who need to be favoured. Secondly, we did not introduce 15%, Mr Delis. The Council of State has set a 10% limit, and our government in the Balta cabinet has raised it by 5%, and we with ministerial decision last year with objections, with the right to object, leave room for much more students. You think it's a colour of the pill, two thousand seven hundred scholarships. Ask two thousand seven hundred students if they are coloured of the pill. Consider the objections colour of the pill. To ask how many students benefited from these objections last year and how much the number of students recorded went up, because it is very easy to say so. I said at the outset that we have no magic wand to change everything, but the effort that is being made is enormous. So you say we give more staff, but our government and our policy doesn't fit this thing. I would like to ask you: which government and at times of prosperity in this country gave within six months a thousand ICP members to universities and TEI? At the central University of Athens and Thessaloniki, more than a hundred teachers were taken over LAG members and TEIs also in Athens and Thessaloniki for this reason, so that we can keep all of this world. I would like to say, however, that we are giving the grants and the Ministry has made a great effort, that there should also be gaps in their distribution in the next few days. We're starting to see enough vacant apartments. That is why, Mr Delis, we want regional universities to be maintained. That's why we give the scholarships, which is why we try with nails and teeth, to keep students and students in regional universities. If everyone comes to Athens and Thessaloniki, the region and the universities and TEI have been completely closed down. The whole effort is being made in that direction. I would like to assure you of one thing that with the objections a large number of poor students are satisfied, not those who have applied. I told you again about zero one or two molecules, and it goes on to say that they have no income, social, economic, they simply want - and their right - to transfer. The two thousand seven hundred scholarships are to keep people special at regional universities and to be able to study. One more thing. The exceptional transcriptions that so far have reached the six hundred, are not very small. There is a personal examination of each student's file. One last, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u90	But here's the last one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u91	Apart from these criteria, income and so on, we gave for the first time this year the right to all the imprisoned students who went to the university to be able to go to prisons near the place they are studying. The Greek citizens of the Muslim minority also gave everyone the right to relocation. As we also gave students of Cypriot origin the right to relocate, a small percentage, so they can also study. We're expanding the transcripts and we're not shutting them down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: "Following the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on cooperation in the fields of Research and Rescue". The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of this agreement. According to the Minutes, by the committee responsible, only the Golden Dawn Party made reservation. Mr. Kouzilos is the special speaker of the Golden Dawn. You want to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u94	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u95	Mr. Nikolaos Kouzilos has the floor for five minutes. The Minister will answer for five minutes. We will end ratification and then proceed with the procedure on the amendments so that we do not lose time now in ratification. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. As we have said in committee, we have reservations. Why? Whether or not the particular penalty will be left on paper. Why? Because it is a very important sanction, while it seems a sanction, a MOU, with Cyprus, but in fact it is very important. In essence, Kastelorizo unites the Greek and Cypriot FIR. We must also stress that we have made some proposals in committee, which have not been answered. Why? What were these specific proposals? Continue the exercises like "NEMINS" and many others with Cyprus, on research and rescue. It should be recalled that in the last 'NEMINS 2016' exercise involving several countries, the European Maritime Safety Agency has also participated, which gives great authority to the region for the two countries. We also raised the issue of becoming a research and rescue subcentre in Kastelorizo, which provides the region with geopolitical support for Greece and Cyprus. There are permanent vessels of the port and of Greece and of Cyprus in Kastelloizo. Two days ago we also had an incident in Chios, where Turkish sailor did not receive search and rescue assistance, known and known, and the Turks issued NOTAMs. So we see that there is an intention from Turkey to continue to provoke research and rescue. This agreement, once it is signed by Cyprus, will give another dimension to the Turkish challenges. Because Turkey is also questioning the Cypriot EEZ and is trying to divide the Aegean into the 25th parallel. Minister, I read from the Minutes that you said that Turkey's doubts are unreliable and that we are making some moves. The last incident in Chios was similar to what happened in Imia. At some point he has to stop. In order to stop all this, however, some moves must also be made, such as the four moves we mentioned just now. We believe in the single defence doctrine of Greece - Cyprus and certainly such an agreement will strengthen both our relations and the region with all these moves. In fact, however, some further moves have to be made. I would remind you of them again and we would like an answer to that. Concentrate on Kastelorizo. Research and rescue boats in Kastelorizo. Development of the maritime traffic system in Kastelorizo and the fourth part, is to relate not only to the "NEMIS" exercise but also to further research and rescue exercises in the area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u97	Minister, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. All parties to the debate on 25 October in the Committee on Production and Trade voted in favour of ratifying this agreement. A party, while saying that it would vote 'in favour', chose to speak in plenary today, setting a number of issues. In any case, the debate took place in the committee and the answers were given. It's a perfectly balanced, absolutely careful agreement. It follows on from the agreements and conventions on maritime research and rescue by the 1989 international agreements and is based on them. It covers in the best way, all the areas where both countries, Greece and Cyprus can cooperate, in the context of research and rescue, leaves no gap and this is the answer to all the individual issues raised. So there is no question of insecurity. Let us have a attitude of national self-confidence. When I said before that all the disputes on the Turkish side are unfounded, this means that the Greek side has stood up to all these issues with absolute temper but also with confidence and has dealt with them. This will always be done and now it will also be done in the future. The guards know. Everything's data. International conventions exist, international treaties exist. What is this creation of a climate through questions, insecurity? In any case, however, research and rescue is not a military operation. We must also have the measure here. Research and rescue is, of course, the exercise of a sovereign right, but it is also an obligation, and I stressed this in committee. Each country's response to this obligation is linked to the realisation of sovereign rights. The country, which responds effectively and successfully to all these initiatives and actions in order to save human lives - and not only for refugees and immigrants, the rescue research is about international shipping - has the potential to claim both in the national and international fields and in the international spheres, so that it has control over the area which has the responsibility to exercise that competence, jurisdiction, right and obligation. These are simple things, and this agreement fully guarantees them and enables them, in any case, to be done on a lasting basis with the Republic of Cyprus, not with an MOU but with an transnational agreement which is of particular importance. In this respect, I call on all parties, and I am pleased that this is happening, to ratify this agreement. In a short time, I suppose, the Cyprus side will also act accordingly - because so far it has not been ratified by the Cypriot Parliament - and this agreement will be implemented. All the articles in this agreement and the explanatory statement give all the answers to any questions raised in a very clear, concrete and substantiated way. Mr President, precisely because you have announced it - and, as you know, a debate will follow on a number of ministerial and parliamentary amendments - the draft law: 'Under the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on cooperation in the fields of Research and Rescue', the title should be changed and supplemented by 'and other provisions'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, too. To close the draft law in principle. As far as I'm concerned, Golden Dawn is voting positively. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the principle of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy's bill: 'Under the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on cooperation in the fields of Research and Rescue and other provisions'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u100	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u101	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u102	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u103	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u104	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u105	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u106	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u107	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u108	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Island Policy: "Furthermore, the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on cooperation in the fields of Research and Rescue and Other Provisions" was approved in principle unanimously. Ladies and gentlemen, four ministerial amendments have been tabled. He was filed about an hour ago by Mr. Pappa. That is what I think is in the context of discussions and a request for opposition to the Conference of Presidents. It's not - I think - controversial. In any case there are four: Nos 734/9, 738/13, 739/14 and 740/15, to which I referred and which is the last. They're also four MPs. Specifically, Nos 732/7, 735/10, 736/11, 737/12. The procedure today was with Article 108 and it is very specific. The proposal I make to you in consultation with the President of Parliament and having received his approval - because I understand that the amendments not only to the PSE but also to the two others are important and need to be discussed - is this: as I said, despite the fact that it is not provided for in Parliament's Rules of Procedure, I propose that the rapporteurs and the special rapporteurs, appointed by the parties for the ratification of five minutes each should be given the floor for the amendments. After two cycles of colleagues followed by the ratio provided for in the Rules of Procedure, i.e. five by SYRIZA, three by New Democracy, one by the other parties, plus the Independents. A total of thirty Members speak of this proposal. If there is another proposal to this effect, please place the Parliamentary Representatives of the parties for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u109	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u110	I saw you, Mr. Loverdo. If there is a problem, Parliament will decide by a majority on the proposal from the Bureau or the proposal, if any, by a parliamentary representative. Mr. Loverdo, you asked for the floor. Obviously you want to suggest something else. You have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u111	Mr President, I would have agreed if you hadn't made this restriction on the list of speakers. You've been very well organized so far. You took off the main theme of today's ratification meeting, and the Minister has been placed. I think you should now continue exactly the same openness. It is not an accidental amendment - I am referring to the amendment by the Minister of State - but the other amendments are serious and important, you have rightly said so. So, since at least with the amendment that I mentioned first, Mr Minister of State, the country has been afflicted for fourteen months, the Conferences of Presidents are five, the timely questions in the House of Tens, the legislative amendments of many, the disruption of too great, all of them for the Minister of State, cannot be debated by the House with an organised debate, which limits the voices of Co-population and counter-population. I would ask you to open a list of speakers, Mr President, normally. We are overlooking the fact that the ratification procedure is not the right one for very important moments in the parliamentary work. Are today's very important? Of course it is, and I mentioned it earlier. One Minister has divided Greece, created issues that concern society and cover other issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u112	Is that a point of order, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u113	Mr. Loverdo, the ones in your place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u114	The pasarella's on!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u115	Mr. Famelle, please don't talk. Mr. Loverdo, on a point of order now. You take the floor anyway, either on the one hand or on the other, and you say what you want in your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u116	I would like to explain to you, Mr President, with this intense tone, because the arguments are clear and accompanying a very clear proposal, that this is not a parliamentary time of routine in order to limit the debate. My proposal is therefore specific: as you say in relation to the amendments, but we are opening up a list of speakers. Many people will speak from our party. From the majority and the minority, I imagine the same, I mean the other parties. You can't limit that. I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u117	I missed to tell you that before we started the conversation...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u118	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u119	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u120	Wait a minute, I'm not done. Don't raise your hands. You were in the Chamber when I said that I would ask a parliamentary representative. My hard drive works perfectly. You don't have to raise your hands. I have only missed to say that, before Members' seats begin, one or the other procedure - from what I see the House will decide on the Bureau's proposal or Mr Loverdos' proposal - the positions of the Ministers on each of the amendments will precede both of them so that Members and Parliament's representatives will have a picture of what the government says. We'll take it vice versa. I think that you all want this in principle and, of course, you will also remain on the table during the debate. I'm doing it in turn. Mr. Femelle, for two minutes, which one of the two procedures is SYRIZA supporting? The proposal from the Bureau, which in any case derogates from the Rules of Procedure or the further 'derogation' - in introductory words, I put the words in order not to be regarded as a head of the Rules of Procedure, which Mr Lovers has made.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u121	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that today's debate is very important, since it is a debate that returns to this parliamentary term for the third time a major issue, which is the implementation of the Constitution, which for twenty-seven years our country has been unable to do, since the previous governments have regressed towards this constitutional requirement and the control that the state ought to do in the broadcasting field. However, the debate has been repeated on many occasions both in public and in parliamentary terms, and although I would say that this opinion on the importance and substance of the debate would be in favour of the proposal for an open debate of many hours and many days, if you wish, because democracy and the left and progressive thinking have nothing to lose from a debate on the application of the Constitution and on the great responsibilities of previous years, I think that what is important today is to take a step forward. One step ahead is the independent authority, the National Broadcasting Council, the composition and implementation of the thoughts of the entire state and society. That is why I think that, on the basis of the measure, we could accept this debate from the Bureau's proposal, although our initial mood and all the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group are all Members of the SYRIZA to speak, Mr President. Because we demand that this important provision of the Constitution be finally implemented in our country. I believe, however, that the aim is today to end the prerequisites, if you want, which create a climate of composition, to achieve the major one, which is the debate on the National Broadcasting Council, on the independent authority, which many stumbling blocks and micro-political considerations have been put in place lately. However, I believe that the choice of both the government and Parliament must be to take a step forward. Society indeed has serious issues that remain open, serious issues relating to work, on equality, on law in our country, but as a first attempt, if you want, to achieve these common objectives, I think we should also find the best thing in the process. So we believe that the Bureau's proposal can serve this purpose, and even though we have nothing to do with a great process, we are proposing to start with the Bureau's proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u122	Mr Denkias, the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, has the floor on the subject of the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u123	Mr President, I will obviously be confined. With your permission, of course, the Greek Parliament, the Conference of Presidents, the Greek society in general, has been afflicted by the legislation which, in the name of a strange way of understanding of transparency, has been introduced by the Government and Minister Pappas. We in the New Democracy, Mr President, want to make it easier for SYRIZA colleagues to express what they are consciously feeling. We do not want to limit them to five, four, three speakers. We do want to give everyone the opportunity, if they wish, to place themselves on this 'object' of democracy, which is the law of the Minister, Mr Papapas, and therefore we are directly in favour of open discussion. We think this is where the thing came, anything less will not help. Every Member of Parliament must, in any event, deal with the issues of his conscience.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u124	Mr Venizelos has made a request for the Rules of Procedure. I would ask Parliament's representatives to conclude on the original point of order, and immediately thereafter, Mr President, I will give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u125	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u126	The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Rabbit, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u127	Mr President, I think it would be right to open the list of speakers and to place them as many Members as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u128	Thank you for your briefing. Mr. Loverdos spoke. Mr Pafilis, the parliamentary representative of the Communist Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u129	It is clear that it is the mother of the fighting to discuss the whole of the broadcasting scenery. And this is related to the fact that there is a strategic partnership between the other parties and therefore give the battle to secondary issues. Let me say something else, Mr President. Do you think that the Greek people are interested in which businessman will get what channel? Are we serious? Does he care about the moment he's unemployed, the moment he's cut off pensions, the moment he pays his head's hair and the world's been sick from morning to night for two months to be a central political issue to hide all the rest? We therefore consider that this should be over and we do not care whether it will be the alpha or the beta process. That is why we are voting'representations' on the procedure. But I would like to raise a point. There is the contract between Greece and Cyprus. Four amendments are now in place. For example, we are voting for the agreement. As a whole, however, the law is based on the amendments and not so...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u130	There will be another vote in the whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u131	Yes, there will be another vote, but we will vote against. What the government does to this and all the former are unacceptable, because it is actually blackmailing. They could be separate on separate issues and on other bills.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u132	Intelligently understood, Mr Pafile.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u133	That is why I say that this process cannot continue. He's got to stop sometime.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u134	You don't think I'm opposed. We shall now proceed to the Parliamentary Representative of the River, Mr Amyras. Mr Amyras, you have the floor for two minutes on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we first discussed the Pappa Act, within Parliament on 21 October 2015, in the committees at that time. We are thirteen months later and within this period, the issue of television licences, the way the government chose to regulate it or dismantle it or immerse it into more deeper chaos than was - of course - the achievement of society, the legal life of the country, the Constitutional Court, the economy, every single citizen, all those who have a television home or all those who are working in one of the broadcasting media. It is therefore worth wondering how the SYRIZA Members - and I address you, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA - do not want an open procedure, an in-depth debate, opens a list so that, above all, you can take the floor. Don't you want to promote your breasts for the Pappa law? Mr President, we are calling for an open procedure, for an open list to be opened, for the floor to be given as many speakers as possible, and for us now to be measured in relation to the substance of the matter, which is the unconstitutionality of the law, and for, furthermore, the inability to form the PSE and the lateral ways in which the Government is trying to overcome both the Constitutional Court's decision and the general desire for society to resolve the issue of broadcasting in terms of rules and transparency, as is done in European countries and not in some forgotten Balkans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u136	Of the ANLLs, Mr Papachristopoulos is not here, but, I suppose, you support the Bureau's proposal. We are ending with the Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, Mr Georgios and Mr Dimitrios Karras. Here, Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr President. We are in favour of an open debate for the following reasons: Firstly, the Government argued at the outset that the broadcasting law opens up the question of interactiveity. Secondly, the Government has stubbornly insisted on the constitutionality of the law, which, as evidenced by the route, is declared to be the crucial issue of the number of licences and the formation of the PSE and its responsibilities, unconstitutional. Today, therefore, the government is making a rescheduling, as I would call it, but throughout the ten to twelve months of the year in particular, it has emerged from both the government and the opposition on a major issue of Greek reality. But that has also been a side-effect, Mr President. There was a loss of justice, a loss of democracy being viewed as not being supported by the small number of four permits, it was loss-making in limiting the information expected to occur. After that we think that, because of the positions taken by the government, we need to have an open debate to hear all the views that exist in this House and which also reflect views outside Parliament, because whether we like it or not, the channels, the newspapers on their front are putting today's debate on this issue. Finally, Mr President, I note that the question of the number of four or more....
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u138	This is essentially the case, Mr Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u139	No, it's not. Let me finish, Mr President. The question of PPE's responsibilities is the core of the problem. So we need to discuss the core today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u140	The President of Parliament, Mr Voutsis, has also asked for the floor, but I think that Mr Venizelos, in order to listen to Mr Venizelos, Mr President, who wants to be placed on the Rules of Procedure and then I will give you the floor. Mr. Venizelos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u141	Mr President, according to Rules 112 and 108 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, the bills that ratify international conventions, such as the original bill to be introduced for discussion, go through Parliament by means of a procedure that is concise. However, this applies only to the bills of ratification of international treaties, because of the broad consensus with which they are usually voted in committee and in plenary. Once such a draft law becomes a vehicle for an executive of the Constitution, such as the one on Mr Papapa's amendment, a law on a fundamental right, an institutional guarantee, such as media pluralism, a law on Article 15 of the Constitution on the broadcasting situation of the country and Article 95 of the Constitution on compliance with the decisions of the Council of State, namely the heart of the rule of law, is not a law of ratification of an international convention. The nature of the bill is changed. It cannot be invoked and applied to the summary procedures under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, because this House is going to discuss and vote on the consequences of the collapse of a manifestly unconstitutional law, the unconstitutionality of which we have raised objections and have warned many times from October 2015 until today. What did the Plenary Assembly of the Council of State do? She has accepted all the objections to anti-constitutionality we have shown here on several occasions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u142	How do you know?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u143	So this is a defeat, which is not just a policy, it is a deep institutional, democratic one. It's about the rule of law. And we know that from the journalistic information on the basis of which the government acts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u144	Please, ladies and gentlemen, calm down. It's over, Mr. Venizelos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u145	When the decision is published, you will see in every detail what personalities you have done, because for me what the Council of State decided is not surprising. If there is a surprise, the surprise is that there was a minority in this decision rather than a majority in the majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u146	The Rules of Procedure, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u147	So what needs to be done is, in the Rules of Procedure and the Procedure, a debate on the draft law with its new nature, and, in substance, absolute compliance with the decision of the Council of State. If the government considers that there must be a period of waiting without doing anything at all and expect the decision to be published so that it can have full knowledge of the text, let us tell it and do so, but not the trick of suspending the validity of a law, which has, in any case, been classified as unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u148	Mr President, I beg your pardon, but you must be closed, because you have asked for the floor on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u149	And, therefore, the only solution, which the government and the majority of Parliament have, is compliance with the Council of State's decision. The Greeks of the Republic and the rule of law have been afflicted, and the only thing that saves the pretext for the government is to come to agree on its mistake and legislate on compliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u150	What about the procedure? What's he suggesting?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u151	Mr. President, excuse me. Thank you. First of all, I'd like to make an announcement about leaving school. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how the House organises and operates, forty-seven students and schoolchildren and three educational attendants from the high school "Homo educandus Education" Corinthia. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Before I give the floor to the President of Parliament - I will not put time, so it is always done to the Presidents, to the individual, but it will be very simple, as he has made sense to me - I would like to say that this is an issue that we should perhaps resolve. I say in my view that ratification of conventions does not come unless it is really objectively an extremely urgent or serious agreement that can be reached between the parties. It was always done, unfortunately, and now. This has to be regulated. We will discuss this at the Conference of Presidents. But already, because the President and I, who are doing his decision at the moment, acknowledged that there is one issue, that is why there has been a derogation from the Rules of Procedure, otherwise we should have finished it now. The President will speak on this. It will, if necessary, be put to a vote in plenary unless we manage to find a common place with a little more enlargement and not to go to votes or such things now. Mr President, you have the floor and I don't give you time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u152	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not follow Mr Venizelos, who expressed his surprise that there were eleven of the Council of State, who considered the law to be constitutional and I will not say that there is a surprise to the contrary, that there were fourteen who found him unconstitutional. It would really be such a debate on the limits of our institutional function. I would also ask the debate that will follow not to enter such a crown. It is clear - a great deal of sensitivity has been expressed previously, perhaps confusing about this issue - that the process, which is being done today and which is being provoked by the government and which we are discussing, is extremely democratic and extremely timely. Within a few days, not from the adoption of a decision by the Council of State, but from a leak in relation to the central issue, the enviroment, the law - and perhaps we wait for two months, I fear that this decision will not go much further - the government will bring the amendments necessary to comply with the core of this law. This sensitivity has so far not been demonstrated in all previous years in the respective decisions of the Council of State on this matter. And I am very sorry that the tone is rising by fellow ministers responsible for justice, Vice-Presidents, responsible for the media - who have had such decisions before them for years and have not shown the slightest sensitivity to bring to their governments the treatment of the acts of administration or bills or bills. There was also the project of Mr Venizelos's own bill, which was afflicted for six years - the project - and it was not implemented. And today, at the very beginning of such a debate, to the fact that the ministers who have divided society, etc. Don't watch this development. The standard - because it was obvious that the standard was to have the warmth of the debate from highly experienced, far more than I did, colleagues, but everyone understood it - is clear. The recommendation, which the President makes, says about two cycles of discussion. In other words, the Government will speak at least ten, apart from the rapporteur and the parliament, from the Qualified Opposition at least six, i.e. at least eight colleagues, and from all the other parties, from every'small' party - in introductory terms, because it does not have an assessment - at least four. That is to say, there is going to be a perfect debate and full of thirty, thirty-five colleagues, precisely because there is a sensitivity that this is very important. So don't talk about it. I think that the coincidence and convergence should be unanimous. However, I would like to ask - and I repeat - that the tone of the substance of the debate be retained, because there is a long and highly deserving past known to the entire Greek people, a long and highly entrenched past of opinions and applications on the basis of interests, which have guided the absence of legislative initiatives, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u153	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u154	I'm hanging up, Mr. Loverdos. So, now that we all together have to try and find the common places to treat these things and move from now on, there is no need to exacerbate and create such situations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u155	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Parliament, twenty-four students and students and an attendant of the 2nd Municipal School of Papagos. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u156	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u157	What do you want, Mr. Loverdo? What are you asking for?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u158	I ask for the floor on the proposal I made on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u159	You told her. What? Are you going to call her again?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u160	I address the majority, Mr Famello, to Mr Kammenos, for agreeing with their proposal, I tell them to rethink it and come back to life. The position adopted by Mr Famelos was contrary to his final conclusion. We are asking for the floor for colleagues to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u161	You said that, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u162	Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u163	What's your request? By way of derogation from your Rules of Procedure, I gave you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u164	Apart from repeating my proposal, I have to say that the President of Parliament has taken the floor to unite.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u165	All right, now will you answer the President of Parliament? When you're placed, you'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u166	The President of the Parliament was deeply dissatisfied and insulting. Keep an eye on his words!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u167	Mr. Loverdos, you have no more reason. Have a seat! [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Loverdo, sit down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u168	Have a seat, you've said that. When the time comes to talk, say what you want. Nobody forbids you. Please have a seat, Mr. Loverdo. Don't embarrass me!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u169	I'll get you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u170	No, you can't bring me in, Mr. Loverdo, because I know Parliament's Rules of Procedure as well as you do. So you're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u171	Can I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u172	Mr President, is this a personal matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u173	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u174	You have the floor for a minute on staff and the congresses are over and the vote is on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr President. Unfortunately, Mr Voutsis, speaking from the parliamentary benches earlier, was not just bisecting, but deeply offensive. Our behaviour was guided by interests, but the interests, as I said in the House when Mr Pappas' bill was discussed, were brought up to the trees now and they appeared to be what the government does with interests and not only in the media, but in other places. This is the big issue that opens up in the country in relation to the banking system, in relation to other countries. So these will be discussed. Let us not be alarmed by Mr Voutsis, who is trying to tell us that now the constitutional order, which has been brutally offended, has been restored and this has been discovered by the Council of State, despite the stubborn effort made to guide the Council of State, to blackmail judges, to influence the decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u176	Mr President, you have asked for staff!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u177	I would like to say to Mr Voutsi that the procedure, the normal discussion of the bill, is not a concession and generosity, but an obligation under the Constitution and the Rules of Parliament. Mr. President isn't giving us gifts in relation to...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u178	Please, Mr President! Although I have a picture, I think it is not right to go to the vote. If you wish, we will go by the known way, by elevation, if not, because it is the majority...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u179	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u180	Mr. Kegeroglu, I heard you. You came and told me. This will be the time when the Members' amendment comes and because you are in the short term, my view is that you are right. Don't interrupt me again. If, however, we assume that a vote will be taken and I would be of the opinion that the list should be opened. I want this to be recorded. But as the Bureau, I have to defend the Bureau's decisions. I think it's obvious. Let's not vote. SYRIZA and ANEL colleagues are more. We then proceed to the 'organised discussion' process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u181	Mr President, may I have the floor? I have to say about the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u182	Minister, let's get started. You, of course, will start first by the ministers of the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u183	I too, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u184	Yes, Mr. Chakaloto. You two will start. So let's go in the order in which they've been filed. Mr Pappas has the floor first to support his two amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u185	Because there is a legitimate suspicion that we will need much more time for the amendments that I have tabled, rather than for what Mr Tsakalotos has put forward, would it be better to start with Mr Tsakalotos?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u186	So Mr. Chakalotos should begin. Mr Tsakalato, will you need five minutes to support your own amendment? Is it enough with a tolerance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u187	No, less than five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u188	So start, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u189	Only one comment on the previous ones I want to make. When I heard Mr Venizelo talk about media pluralism, I was thinking of the Mahatma Gandhi line in the 1930s in Britain when they asked him what he had to say about Western civilization and replied that it would be a very good idea to exist. I feel the same way about pluralism in Greece in the media. We're hearing it a little. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] This amendment concerns No 4412, which we voted on in August, which has to do with the public procurement of various operators. Within this law there was an exception for the GOI, in order to be more flexible the awards, to be able to make its own regulation, which is forbidden to other entities. Now this amendment extends this possibility to both the Participation and Property Company and to the sub-sectors, i.e. EBRD, EBRD and HSF. It will, of course, be possible to make a regulation, but this regulation must always be adopted by the Single Public Procurement Authority. So, it's not that they can do whatever they want. It will be checked, as this principle controls. It will simply be more flexible, which is needed for various reasons. There's a letter with the beginning, which, if you like, I can submit it to the House. I do not have it, but I can ask my office if you think this will help you to testify to what the single authority says. Once this amendment has been passed, this regulation, which will do more specificly what they can or can't do about the overseer and the subsections, will send it to the single authority for comments. It took me less than five minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u190	Thank you for managing time. Minister Dritsa has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u191	Mr President, I would just like to refer to the parliamentary amendments, so that this House can be informed before the process begins and that the parties and Members are prepared. But give me half a minute to make a comment. I think that the debate that is taking place today, in this way that is being organized and in the very balanced intervention of the Bureau in organising this debate, is not a fundamentally overcoming of what we have agreed that there should be no amendments to the sanctions and all that. This week the Greek Parliament had no more legislative work. The need to put the amendment on television licences - particularly this one - but also many other urgency - and this will be demonstrated by the debate - is a need for all of us, not just the government or the Ministers. In particular, it is the amendment on television licences that comes to organise and settle what we have all agreed on, that this case should be brought to a definitive solution and direction following the decision of the Council of State. So what is all this turbulence and tension that is being attempted before the debate on this amendment even opens up? Declarations that the details of the decision will disturb the universe as well as the one who says them, but they also set out the details, if any. Don't say such things. It's quite irresponsible. From this point of view, I think we need to calm down and have an essential debate in this direction that the Treaties require and which all the political parties have agreed that it needs to happen. Mr President, in addition to the ministerial amendments, four Members of this House have been tabled, which I have in mind at the moment. Obviously - and I think it should be done - the Members who have tabled these amendments will take the floor to present them and defend them. For the purposes of the preparation of the parties, I can tell this House at the moment - we will see what is going to happen in the course of the debate - that three of them consider it appropriate that they should be accepted, that this House should also take a decision on why they are of an urgent nature. This is Amendment No 735 and a special number No 10 by Mr Thevaios, Amendment No 736 by a general number and a special number by Mr Balaura, and Amendment No 737 by a general number of Members and a special number by Mr Theopevettos 12. There is one more, Mr Kegeroglu, for which I cannot speak at the moment. In any case, the debate can begin, and it has already begun and evolved in a coherent, smooth and practical way, because what is to be tackled and the individual urgency of Members and Ministers is important and we must resolve it, and of course the debate on television licences must not lead to the repetition of the same rhetoric, but to the finding on the part of the House of the right solution and things will take their right path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u192	Mr President, may I have the floor for a formal matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u193	Here you go, Mr. Dendia.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u194	Mr Minister, you say that you will accept three amendments. As far as I can see, none of the three amendments concern the subject of your Ministry. The two relate to the Minister of Finance and the other concerns the Minister for the Environment. For the order and seriousness of the matter, I think that the Minister for Maritime Merger of a VHSD touches the line. What can I say? Not to say anything. If you are kind enough, bring the appropriate ministers - Mr. Chakalotos is here for the two - to tell us. I read here about the restoration of unfair treatment. Is she unfair? It is also referred to as ‘economic aid inconsistent’.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u195	Mr. Dendia, it's understood. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u196	Mr Tindemans, you're right, Mr. Tindemans. However, as rapporteur for the bill, I have to say to the House. That is why I said that, in my opinion, these must be accepted and I intend to do so. Of course, the ministers present, but also the MPs, will present them. The amendments and not ministerial.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Minister. Minister Pappas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u198	Ladies and gentlemen, I think that following many incidents in the issue of television licences at the moment a path of convergence between the political parties is being deleted in the political atmosphere. We want to talk about the substance: There was the previous Conference of Presidents, in which, in addition to the deep political disagreements, many parties were prepared to respond to their constitutional institutional obligation and to contribute to the establishment of a National Television Council. So today we are bringing two amendments to the vote, which I would like to call on the opposition parties to vote for, which deal with two issues under No.4339, which have dealt very much with public opinion and debate within Parliament. The first amendment concerns the transfer of competences from the National Television Council to the General Secretariat for Information. I would like to remind the House that the most famous 2A amendment has transferred for the first and only application of this kind of licences to the national Broadcasting Council to the Secretariat-General for Information. As we are aware, this amendment gave rise to administrative acts which have been judged by a marginal majority of anti-constitutionals. And this government comes, even before the Council of State's decision is published, to adapt legislation in this respect to the decisions of the Council of State. The President of Parliament rightly pointed out that this was not the practice. That was not the practice, for our government moved and legislated precisely to heal the outrageous unconstitutionalities in which we were in relation to the television field. There were television stations without permission and something we had to do and there was a National Broadcasting Council, whose legal composition has been challenged both by the Legal Council of State and by the Council of State. We therefore come to suspend the application of this amendment, which I would like to stress is almost a great deal, because it was precisely because this amendment provided for the opening of the tender by the Secretariat-General for Information for the first time. It is obvious that any invitation to tender from now on will be conducted by the National Broadcasting Council under existing legislation. So, I think it's a step that we all have to take. And I call on the opposition parties to vote on this amendment. The second amendment concerns the number of licences. I would like to remind the House once again that in all previous legislation the number of licences was a matter of ministerial decision. In the so-called Venizelos and Rusopou and in the arrangements brought by Mr Voridis and incorporated into Law 4070/2012 there was a ministerial decision with an opinion of the National Radio Board. This regulation was almost automatic, almost self-evident for previous legislation. Unfortunately, it was the stone of the scandal and the occasion for fierce - I would say immoral sometimes - criticism. Today's hearing of the speaker and the government, mutatis mutandis, is very modest and modest. I invite you all together to remember what has been said about this arrangement. We therefore bring the regulation that the'reasoned' opinion of the National Broadcasting Council becomes 'according'. It's a brave step from the government. And I call on the opposition parties to vote on it. Justified opinion means that it will obviously open up a debate. The position of the government, the majority of the House, is well-known in terms of the number of permits, but this reasoned opinion points out that if there are any other views, of course, we will have to discuss them and in terms of convergence and composition to come to this issue as well. I would like to say that the Greek state is coming out richer, more profitable than this process even where we are, because it has been proved, firstly, that there is a way and must and must be the political system to observe the Constitution and, secondly, that the Greek State is in a position, if there is political determination and political will, to organise a competition and a third - and more importantly - it has been shown that there are funds available, which should be paid in the previous years and not paid. And there is currently a reciprocity, a price for the use of the television spectrum in a pan-Hellenic range, which is 250 million. We should all discuss, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the new data, how this price will be collected, otherwise I think we will be accountable to the next generations, who will also look at this composition of the House and conclude that they have become 'one of the same'. I would like to say that this majority is absolutely determined. And permits will, of course, be given - we are optimistic that a National Broadcasting Council will be set up - and there will be a price. That's what I think is a big incision. And it is a great incision, because I want to remind you that, when this debate was initiated, on the part of the counter-population, the political line was that there was no reason for authorisation, that a license has been granted once to the digital provider, and that this is enough and that anyone who wants to transmit has nothing but to do with the digital provider, which was, at all events, the company of the cartel of the owners of the national-range channels, and to broadcast. So it has been a very long time since. And the Opposition has moved. That is what we would like to say. And we must all help to ensure that on Monday the country comes to have a National Broadcasting Council. They don't need masturbations right now. What it takes is self-awareness. And self-awareness must lead all political forces to take the first and final step, because if a National Broadcasting Council is set up, we will all be able to press, contribute to the completion of this, too, competition for television licences. Unfortunately, the limit decision of the Council of State - by votes 14-11 the rumours say - has produced two results: The first is the financial result. The economic result for us is an injustice, because it transfers resources from our poor fellow citizens, from our fellow citizens in need, to our fellow citizens who are on the pretext - because they had paid the first instalment I must remind this House - they have a great economic surface. The second result is a huge legal, constitutional gap. Administration cannot give permission - it is a duty under the Constitution to have licences - and there is no National Council for Broadcasting. For the establishment of the National Broadcasting Council, 4/5 of the Conference of Presidents is needed. I think the time has come for this gap, for this deadlock to be overcome and for all of us to do our self-criticism, of course, and with braveness. But everyone, because for twenty-seven years, while the Constitution also said it, and the law too, there was not a single euro. And this situation must come finally from today on yesterday! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u199	Mr Kontonis also has the floor to present his own amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Mr President. The amendment I am proposing today before the House relates to the settlement of outstanding issues of the Greek football team, following the intervention of the International Football Federation, FIFA, and the appointment of a committee for normalization in the Greek Football Federation, at the request of the Greek Government. Ladies and gentlemen, the fight against corruption and interlocutory is a battle on all fronts and all levels. One of these was the forefront of corruption and the strife that had been emphasizing Greek sport for years, had been hatched in the field of the client's state and, of course, had high political protectors, who have for years tolerated this situation and even come to the National Representation on several occasions and said they can't do anything because they supposedly tied their hands on the basis of the international agreements and treaties signed by the Greek state. We have therefore, in twenty months' time, succeeded in bringing an end to this lawlessness regime. And you know that this state of lawlessness that existed for years and produced pathogens in Greek sport and Greek society, we faced it for the first time in May 2015 with n.4326. There we established, if you remember, the order of disciplinary bodies of the Football Federation to be formed exclusively by ordinary judges. In this provision, which was totally definite and breathtaking throughout this sporting system, then New Democracy came in and asked for a roll-call vote to ensure that there were no regular judges in the football disciplinary bodies. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And not only that, but we were threatened by the opposition almost a year ago that if this provision were adopted we would have a misappropriation of the Greek groups. But instead of doing so, the very opposite happened. I would like to tell you, therefore, that the situation that existed for years in Greek football has not been a situation that fell from heaven. As I told you, there were political protectors and even ministers of the New Democracy were prevented from completing an effort from their own party. We today end with this pathogen once and for all. As I have said, it was, as I have said, essentially temporary administration - a normalization committee - which will study and reform the statutes and regulations of the Football Federation. The path of legality will be followed. All these procedures will have the final approval of the Government. I would like to inform you that what has been called'reconciliation' - others have called it 'paramentary' in Greek football - do not think that he has filed the weapons since the government legislated. On the contrary, the summer went through an energy that surpassed every limit and every fantasy. He illegally tried to alter the composition of disciplinary bodies and to replace with this I want regular judges sent by the disciplinary bodies. This led the Government to a very clear statement to FIFA. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] One more minute, Mr President. We told them that we have interrupted all contact with the Greek Football Federation since now, because it is now a man of corruption and that it is insulting the legality and constitutional order. Secondly, we invited them in writing and officially to do what they did. Intervention. I want from the Step of the House to thank the International Football Federation, but also from the representative of Costa Koutsoukoumi, who has worked on the basis of not only the cheques he has had from the Federation, but also on the basis of the patriotic duty as a Greek, in order to provide a solution at last to a problem that has been afflicting Greek society and Greek sport for years. So today, with this amendment, we are giving the legal basis for the committee's work on relations with third parties, with the state and the private, and we believe that this process, which is taking place today, can put a perfect end to a regime of total corruption and sepsis that existed in Greek football, but we are conscious that it is a process that is beginning and must be monitored. And we must all, in good faith, help with the work of the committee, led by the Professor of Constitutional Law of the Law School of Athens, Mr. Ioannis Drossos. Ladies and gentlemen, this whole process proves something very simple, that when a government takes serious account of the pathogens it has to face and when it has the political will to put them in a strong position and eliminate a system of corruption, it always succeeds, because it knows that there is not only a large parliamentary majority on its side but, above all, a large social and popular majority on its part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u201	We are going to the rapporteurs first in a row, the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Cameroon.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u202	Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard from the representative of the New Democracy that we are suffering 15 months with this issue. Who is to blame for the suffering and who are those who are trying to prevent the operation of the Broadcasting Council from moving forward, we all know it. And what we are doing today is the following. Why does this amendment come into such a bill? In order to stop the illegal operation of television stations operating until now at the expense of the Greek public and, of course, the people's interests, which have been paying for the broken, borrowed and unscrupulous, for twenty-seven years. We have had a great deal of resistance from the first moment, since there are legitimate interests being affected. The New Democracy, from the very first moment, took the role of the canalarchs' lawyer. The only thing he has not done is that she should submit the last appeal to the Council of State itself. If he could, maybe he did. Since he has so far failed to stop us, he is now celebrating the last decision of the Council of State, which we do not yet know. Of course, we have the leaks from journalists, from what we have heard from Mr. Venizelos. Of course, they're not government journalists. If the rejection of Law4339 was universal, we would definitely have been told, because that would have been what they wanted. So, to tell us that it is only a rejection of Article 2 A, which provides for the competences temporarily and only once to be transferred to the Ministry, it goes on to say that this is what it is like. We'll wait. That is why this amendment and suspension are coming, because we do not want to delay and do not want to have a constitutional vacuum. The New Democracy celebrates this decision here. Do you understand, ladies and gentlemen, what it says or what we expect it to say - from the leaks - this decision? It says that the Radio Board must proceed with the licensing process. He does not accept transitional periods nor temporary once the transfer of powers to the Ministry to make the first invitation. It is only natural that we lead this decision and the thought here, since we have the decisions of the Council of State and many, which consider it unconstitutional, not to grant licences to the channels and unconstitutional extension of the National Broadcasting Council. What did we do? We brought Law 4339, which was passed in October 2015 and provided for the responsibilities that the Constitution rendered to the National Broadcasting Council, namely - to be within my time - from Article 1 to 15 the licensing framework, the setting of a starting price, time, conditions for participation, minimum equity, etc. Now what is New Democracy asking for? Repeal of these articles? Is that what the Council of State decided on? Is that what we expect it to be announced or is there anything else behind this proposal? Does it re-print its own law and not just replace a particular article, which, little or less, includes all of it, even lightly, but does it fail - by accident? - the number of workers and replace the contest by an authorisation procedure? This is a second defeat of the New Democracy, the fact that it admits today that permits must be granted and that the Canadians must be paid, while we know what he was saying some time ago, before the elections, that they do not need permissions. So it is now obliged that the New Democracy should come and agree to the establishment of the National Broadcasting Council. That is what the Council of State will say and what the decision of the Council of State will say. This amendment, the most famous Article 2A, does not forget, firstly, that it was temporary, was for the first authorisation, and secondly, that it was only for a kind of licences of the eight species envisaged. Eight types of licences are provided for in Greek, local, thematic channels, etc. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. I'm done. Is it possible, then, that the Council of State in the decision we are waiting to raise itself if it creates a gap? That is why I say that the New Democracy must see the decision again, not only that it must celebrate, but that it is defeated, because it will create a legal vacuum without providing for what will happen if people are using the National Broadcasting Council as a lever for political anomaly, using what is not provided for in the Constitution, that is, what happens if a majority of 4/5 cannot be created. I'm ending up with this. What does New Democracy want? Does he want a deal of truth on this matter too? Does he want a deal similar to the loan? Is her signature a contract like this signature that she put on for the loans she made, and while she had signed that she would not put a mortgage or a pledge on state funding for 2019-2020 to another bank, finally put it into two other? Did you tell the truth? Let's see. Soon and I'll be done. Did you tell the truth when you said they didn't need permission? Did you tell the truth when you said you cared about the workers? We've seen it in the proposal you're tabling. So you used them to serve canalarchs. Are you telling the truth, when you say you do not consent to the formation of the PSE, why did his responsibilities be removed? That's a big lie, because v. Date of birth: 4331 made in October 2015. From that point on, you did not consent to the National Broadcasting Council and the government was forced to change Article 2A, for the first time, for the first time, so that the competition can proceed. The meetings of the Conference of Presidents on 19 January, 1 February, 9 February, etc. were fruitless. And there have been five to date. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that licences will be granted and we are not going to go back. That is why we are rushing today with this amendment and we do not want it to be delayed. With any terrain you won't prevent. Today your last truth is removed and if you continue, you will be isolated, once again reveal what interests you serve. I mean, one more defeat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u203	Mr Kedicoglou from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Mr President. With regard to the suspension of the application of Article 2A of Law No.4339, to say that, on the one hand, the decision has not been published so that we know exactly what it is thinking, but the unconstitutionality of these provisions has been stated. It is legally inappropriate to propose, with the amendment in question, a suspension of Article if this has been considered unconstitutional by the Supreme Administrative Court and therefore does not apply. In the current wording of the amendment, the government is trying to circumvent, beyond the apparent communication attempt, once again the distinction of powers. Now, what do I tell you, Mr. Pappa, this! Minister, I am sure that the only mistake you think you have made is that you have not respected the responsibilities of the Council of State, as you have maintained the broadcasting board. If I judge the arrogance and authoritarianism you display, you have no idea that you have made another mistake. There must be respect for the decision of the Council of State, Mr Pappa, which considered the transfer to be unconstitutional. The only solution is to abolish the law and start from a zero base. I have heard you say about the transfer of powers. You said: 'We are aware of the decision and it was a small majority: 14 - 11'. Mr Pappa, are you sure that he was a member of the Council of State who voted in favour of the constitutionality of the law? Did the fourteen consider that the law was not at all healable and the eleven said it was unconstitutional, but is healed by certain provisions? Why are you so sure?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u205	How do you know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u206	No, I'm telling you! After listening to the verbality, I, too, am allowed to verbalize. Look, the Broadcasting Council has been abolished by you. I would remind you, for some people have short memory, that from this Step forward, under the government of Samaras, I have called on you to complete the creation of the Broadcasting Council, proposing also people you are proposing today, but then you have rejected them. You had another agenda then. Also, what you said about the number of licences, Minister, when you referred to the Venizelos Act, was in the analogue era. The analogue age has other technological commitments. The digital switchover was the one that unleashed a technological potential. Because they were lied again about 'DIGEA', I would firstly say that the price paid by 'DIGEA' was the largest in Europe. In similar countries such as the Netherlands and Austria, the price did not exceed EUR 12 million and the EUR 14 million. DIGEA paid EUR 18 million. But what did the Greek state win, Mr. Poppa? He won 350m euros from the release of the digital spectrum, more than you made with your licenses, which you think you made. Also, Mr Pappa, it is not only the price that will be collected, but how existing revenue and debt will not be lost. Loss will be much bigger. Of course, I saw how much you respect decisions. I heard you today in your interview with SCAI saying that the four permits were passed by the House. Am I wrong? That's what you said. You need to understand a little democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u207	It's not a democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u208	Government majorities are transient, change. And your majority is being evacuated rapidly. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] What do you want to tell me? So if the House now votes to extend the term of office of the government for another five years, is that allowed, because the hundred and fifty-three will vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u209	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u210	There are limits. That is why, in democracy, there are institutions that go beyond the government's term of office, and there is a distinction of powers. That means democracy, Mr Pappa, and unfortunately you are unable to understand it. You're trying to keep the essence of your law untouchable. You're trying to pass a controlled Broadcasting Council. We won't let you. Stop the attempted coup and do not think - because such a suspicion has caused us - a change in the composition of the Conference of Presidents in order to reach a solution. There are things that must be respected! Mr Pappa, you are a huge problem for democracy, not as a person, but because of the coverage provided by the Prime Minister, because of the Prime Minister's identification with you. It's in your nature to cheat. We tried and proved our firm commitment to pluralism and the maintenance of the Constitution. We proposed a person for the head, who is universally accepted, even SYRIZA officials were expressed positively for his face. We will insist and be, Mr Pappas, ladies and gentlemen, indebted to defend the principles of democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u211	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-nine students and students and three attendants of their teachers from the 2nd General High School of St. Barbara. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u212	Mr President, I would like to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u213	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u214	I would like to apologise to the House for the suffering. On personal grounds, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u215	The ministers don't have any personal information!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u216	Yeah, we don't have personal. Well, it looks like we do. Mr. Kedicoglou, listen to see, I'd personally expect an apology for the fact that when you were in the government and kept the same portfolio, you didn't collect what you should have collected, not do us a lesson here and move our fingers. We have collected 60 million of the frequency fee and advertising tax, voted taxes. Ready decisions I found on my desk. So that was the problem for democracy. The problem with democracy was the black in the ERT. The problem with democracy is not that we have exhausted all the legal margins to respect the Constitution to find solutions that are compatible with the decisions of the Council of State. And that's what we're doing right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u217	Mr President, will the Minister, to every Member speaking, interrupt and answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u218	All right, all right! Now, don't pay anything. Please! Mr. Kouzelos from Golden Dawn has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u220	Mr President, I would like to speak. This is personal, Mr President. He offended me, and there won't be an answer? He lied. I want to answer. There's a matter here. The Minister lied and accused me of violating duty.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u221	Come on! Here, Mr. Kouzeli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u222	But he accused me. If this isn't personal, what is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u223	Is it over?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u224	What do you want, Mr. Kedicoglou?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u225	I want to answer Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u226	Do you have a personal issue? Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u227	Mr. Poppa, first of all, the money was normally collected. I would like to remind you that in my term of office we have had successive elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u228	'14.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u229	We had two counts in '12 and '14.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u230	You're lying. To apologize now, you didn't collect anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u231	You're not talking now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u232	Mr. Georgiades!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u233	You're gonna sit down and hear it now!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u234	Mr. Georgiadis, stop, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u235	Stop and answer what we're telling you. What are you talking about? You fly mud so you don't answer the charges. Stop! Well, the money was normally collected.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u236	I don't throw any mud.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u237	Let go of the look!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u238	Mr. Georgiadis, please. Are you acting like you're acting like you're asking why? Here, Mr. Kouzilos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u239	Mr. Poppa, without wanting to compare...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u240	But do you demand that the Member apologise and you call that a democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u241	Mr. Javarra, be quiet. Here, Mr. Kouzeli, you have the floor. Mr. Kouzilos speaks!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u242	Democracy is the direct relationship between the Member and the people and not the government with the people. You can't remove that right from me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u243	Mr. Javarra, who did you get the floor from, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u244	From the right to resist and react on the basis of democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u245	Really?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u246	From the right of democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u247	Did you take the floor from the right of resistance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u248	Democracy, what does it say, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u249	We have a lot to hear here now. Here, Mr. Kouzilos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u250	As regards Amendment No 739/14 by Mr Tsakalotou, it serves foreign interests. This is a Memorandum of Understanding and, in fact, what is going on? The Greek legislation is being circumvented and the European is being dominated. In essence, we will see too many issues that will happen in this area in the area of public procurement. As regards Amendment No 738/13 by Mr Kontonis, I would like to say the following: First question, is there any self-sufficient in the WEU? Secondly, who are we bringing as a normalization committee to manage, correct the existing regulation and define the elections in the NRA? FIFA, UEFA? Who? The ones for whom there are judges and convicts? All those who have been trying for so many years and have so much scandals? Who will be here at the moment, on the government's mandate, to resolve the issues of the WEU? So, what are we doing right now? Do we put troika in football too? In fact, none of this will happen, because the Minister said something too, that there are political patrons. Names. Who are the political patrons? He said something very important: 'with names'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, too. Mr Arvanitides has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u252	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has now suffered so much defeat in the so-called battle against interlocutory, which I do not really think is any reason to spend time on the works and days of the competent minister, who has taken the lead in a jaundice, as we say in northern Greece, trying to regulate the television scene. After all, the question we have come here is to create conditions of convergence and consensus between the political forces, so that the National Television Council can be set up immediately and that the competition can be conducted. In order to make the position of the Democratic Association clear, we insist, Minister, that it is'suspended' to be replaced by'repealed' and the agreement of the National Broadcasting Council to deal with all the decisions of the Minister on licensing and not just the number of licences. But I would like, Minister, to stress what a genuine regulation of the broadcasting landscape in terms of democracy is, and not on the basis of the wallet of every prospective canal ruler, such as the one you have attempted. First of all, so far, we are only sure of two things: firstly, that the competition that has been tendered is not valid and, secondly, that all competences must be returned to the National Broadcasting Council. So, in order to move on to the other issues, the decision of the Council of State must first be cleared up. I say this because different opinions have been heard over the last few days, without any knowledge of the real data on which we have to move. Now I'm actually coming to the point. The channels, ladies and gentlemen, manage public frequencies, i.e. public property. The regulation of the broadcasting landscape is therefore a matter of democracy, not a matter of buying. That is why the Constitution also imposes specific principles on its functioning and direct control of the State through an independent authority, precisely in order to ensure that these principles are respected. Democratic regulation of the television scene, Minister, means firstly safeguarding pluralism. Multilateral and external relations. External pluralism means a possibility for many channels, what the digital spectrum allows, which reminds me of providing much greater potential than the analogue. Therefore, restricting licences to four is a clear distortion of external pluralism and it cannot under any circumstances be accepted. Internal pluralism means qualitative criteria and respect for all views on the acquisition of a television licence. At this point the law, which you voted on, has serious gaps. He cannot say the state: "he is getting permission from anyone who gives the most", who eventually did not even happen, after you made a contest in which there were people who got permission, offering less money than others who didn't eventually take. On the other hand, what should be done is, firstly, to establish quality criteria for the programme, namely how European, how national, how entertaining, how informative and, secondly, to ensure pluralism in information so that it is not possible for channels to be transformed into propaganda mechanisms. You, unfortunately, did not do anything of this, because it was probably your real intention to control rather than regulate the television scenery. You tried in every way to create closed market conditions, in which one of the four players would be something like SYRIZA Channel with the money of a SYRIZA Bank. You forgot, however, perhaps by negligence, perhaps by arrogance that the rule of law in that country works and today you are forced to drink all the bitter glass of your purposes. Minister, it has been almost two years since you took over power and I wonder if there is a battle that you have won for the benefit of the country. The answer is, you probably lost them all. And you have lost them because you have not taken care of a single moment to create a climate of understanding between the political forces, you have learned nothing from the years of the crisis. The games of power with the ANELs and the missing right can keep you in the government, but they can't get the country out of the deadlock. As long as you behave selfishly and refuse to accept reality, you do harm the country and, unfortunately, the margins are constantly narrowing. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to add that the Council of State, contrary to what Mrs Gerovas has falsely said about salted card decisions, in 2015 adopted a decision on the unconstitutionality of two decisions on pension cuts, both major and ancillary. Tomorrow there is a debate here in plenary on the question of the Democratic Association for Insurance and Pensions and we will be given the opportunity to develop this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, too. Mr. Tassos from the JRC has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, Mr President. I shall refer to the two amendments. The third PSE will be mentioned by our parliamentary representative, but it is well known in advance that we are voting'residents' on it, as we have done over time. As far as the amendment on what has been said in the NRA is concerned, the problem is a serious one. There is a serious problem in Greek football and we cannot question that. But what is the womb that bears the problems in Greek football? For us - and we think that this is objective - business action, which is intertwined, goes hand-to-hand, 'tooth-to-meat', which we say, with corruption and strife. There is no business action that is without corruption and without a complication. So what do we do now? We're calling FIFA to make the referee. Who? FIFA. It's known that we have the wolf guarding the sheep. And why do we say that? Why, first, FIFA is clearly in favour of business activity in football, at international level, of course, and also known that FIFA is affected by similar situations, with similar problems of corruption and complexity. Let us remember what has happened with her former President Blatter and Platinum and her current President, Blater himself, her former President, denounces that. For these reasons, we will therefore vote against this amendment. And now I come to the second amendment to which I shall refer, that of the Ministry of Finance, which in fact what is it doing? It facilitates the concession to the large capital of public property. That's what she does. Because it is known that the system in which we live and the values of which the current government is defending, the gain is seen and everything is done so that the big capital can ensure and increase its profitability. And in that name public property is granted, wages and pensions are being smuggled, labour rights are being smuggled, so that the big capital can maintain and increase its profitability. It is therefore clear that we too are voting 'no' in this amendment. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, too. Mrs Marku has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u256	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, 'Research and Rescue', the subject of the international convention currently ratified by Parliament and chosen by the government to attach the famous Pappa amendments. We are also watching the government trying to save itself, even one act of credibility, after the total defeat suffered in the past few days. Very little and too late, ladies and gentlemen of the government. With six plus two lines, there is no rugged out of the openness and obscene attack you have carried out against Greek justice, nor of course the authoritarian way you have attempted all these days to deal with an unpleasant development for you, for which we have all warned you: the obvious unconstitutionality of Law4339. It helps you, of course. Here the world is burning, factories are closing, at the Ministry of Labour they are fiercely erasing privileged benefits, the rumor about the second SYRIZA Memorandum - ANEL is fluffing and we are dealing with your terminology, about how to force New Democracy to vote President of the National Broadcasting Council. The New Democracy, on the other hand, puts forward a proposal for a law on channels, forgetting that it has governed this place and had to perpetuate the legal uncertainty of the private television system. Do you really think that extortion and bargains concern society? Not at all. Fortunately - and you should recognize this and publicly -, which is also the Opposition, which does not accept to play your game, but is in a responsible position, which you, if things had been reversed, would never have done. Years we have tolerated your egotistical speech, indulgence, heavy characterizations. So you are very lucky that even some in here do not return what you have done and what you have said. In the case of television licences, the government has led itself to a political deadlock and the country in conditions of institutional sepsis and in situations of comico-tragic. You are lucky to be held in a spirit of consensus, mainly to end this incredible story instead of laughing at you. You have given us a number of reasons. What should I first remember? The amateurism and the stubbornness of children's joy, with which you dealt with the announcement of the decision of the Council of State, with the good image of Mrs. Gerovalis? The outgoing legalisation by SYRIZA of all television stations or 'both-knails', as called by your ministers, who are emitted today? Of course, that is not what we know yet - you took it back because you are in complete confusion. The demon proposal, Polydora, for which your own MPs are being publicly impaled, despite the non-documented papers you share, to justify your unnatural turn once again? Fortunately, some of us take our role and our responsibility towards the Greek people and do not go into communication movements of impression. We are fully aware of the seriousness of this issue, with full respect for the institutions, with a view to finally regulating the landscape of television in accordance with the Constitution. Finally, you must understand that, if we do not agree on 10 reforms, at the end of the day the only solution will be wage and pension cuts. Mr. Tsipras has chosen the middle street, which is the worst. We hope the government understands that this course is not only destructive for the country, which is dragging into stagnation and over-exploitation, but as the measurements show - secret and obvious - the country's plunging into stagnation is also sinking the government into defiance at the speed of formula one. Mercy! We demand that the government save itself, at least for a period of time, behave rationally. As for the example of an amendment you have tabled, we hope that you do not come to present the President of Parliament himself, who has personally guaranteed the government's intentions, because we do not see any substantial changes in the matter of suspension. The second amendment, however, is a clear step backwards, with 'true in the legs', indeed, Minister. It's not bad for a political man to admit he was wrong. Open and clear. That, if you do this today, it would be in your favor. I invite you to think better about your attitude from now on and behave as a public man. Gentlemen of the government, instead of expecting the adoption of the S.H.E.'s decision. in order to study it and prepare the relevant legislation in line with reasoning, you have tried to prove that you are allegedly taking a legislative initiative. You're abusing yourself. The world has realised that after you have lifted up yourself the banner of the revolution against the canals, you are unable to complete this reform even and you do not even have the excuse of the memorandum. Ask for an apology at last, otherwise quit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u257	Ms. Big Economics from the Centro Association has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we naturally support the ratification of the agreement between the Greek Government and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus in relation to the research and rescue sectors, but at the moment we have come for this ratification and, in the middle of the night, we have come to such serious amendments that we do not have time to see or look at them. Anyway. I shall begin with Amendment No 734 which suspends the application of Article 2A of Law 4339 until the adoption of the decisions of the Council of State. The Centro Association has been in favour of the setting-up of the National Broadcasting Council at the very first time. A Western country is not allowed to bypass the Constitution and, in fact, to abolish an independent authority whose role is fundamental. The regulation and control of the broadcasting landscape are mainly the safeguarding of objectivity and impartiality, and their safeguarding is the application of the Constitution, because that is what the S.E. said, namely that the government's majority acted outside the Constitution. Judicial power, with its repressive power, has indicated to us and pointed out mainly to the Government, but also to Civicism, what our President has been saying for months: in Greece of crisis in all areas, no one can overcome the sniper on his own. We have no confidence in the Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, as we have no confidence in the President of the Police Department, Mr. Mitsotakis. But once the two agree and decide to consult, then only the Centro Association will agree. So we are returning to what our President, Mr Leventis, has said: abolishing the Pappa Law, forming the ESS directly within the days, clearing the landscape within a month. Wrong and unconstitutionalism will not be corrected by a new semimeter, inhibition of an article and inhibition of the cries on either side. We are looking for the Minister who has been raped, looking for the Civic Opposition that has been inactivity over the years. In this connection: The people are again watching TV channels without any regulated framework and with a degraded programme and the media workers are 'in the air' and the state does not collect. Have you realised on the one hand that this is not the way our country is going in front of, with egos, blackmail, with micro-policy? I propose that, on the one hand, the government does not correct its mistakes with new mistakes and, on the other, that it show sincere sympathy and compromise in the climate. When a candidate is competent on the basis of his curriculum vitae to elect the President of the PSE, to vote, if he is not capable, to vote against. Anything else is out of constitution. In any case, we as a Centro Association have decided that we will support any choice of the New Democracy's face completely consciousness in order at last to set up this independent authority. Therefore, there is no time or space for micropolitical logics and games that you make among yourselves. The total withdrawal of the famous Pappa law is now a one-way street. Thus, the decision of the Council of State which considered the contested Article 2A to be unconstitutional must be fully respected. In this sense, the Centro Association will vote 'at present' in Amendment 734. In addition, an amendment, 740, which is nothing more than a 'blocking' of the problem of the law', has just come to our hands. It is not a solution to change words in a law that has failed in practice and its legitimacy is judged and judged by the Council of State. So, even if you change some words, it doesn't bring any seriousness. Then we are firmly opposed to Amendment No 739, which effectively abolishes the financial limits that exist in public procurement for specific entities. Obviously, the continued breach of the public procurement regulatory framework in the name of a speed is a direct breach of legality. Our parliamentary representative will analyse this more specifically. In relation to Amendment No 738 on the situation in the WEU, our position is as follows. Evidently, there has been a huge unrest in the football field. Obviously, the whole situation requires serious and careful management. In this context, a different joint management of the NRA is required, but the Central Association disagrees with the way the government has chosen to make this transition. That is why we will be voting on'representations' in this amendment. The whole question is that unilateral and surprise actions should not be constantly taken on the part of the government, but on all serious issues there should finally be the consensus that the Union of Centres has called for from the outset and urgently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u259	So do we. Mr Loverdos, Parliamentary Representative for Democratic Independence, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u260	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all we must not forget. Justice spoke, democracy spoke and black didn't pass. This is where we start. We are not starting with the Conferences of Presidents and amendments. We start by saying that for fourteen months we had been telling the government and something was answering us. The government proved in the most official institutional way that it was completely wrong and that the black it wanted to impose and the channels it wanted to set up did not pass as a method of democratic practice. This is where we start. I would like to invite you, because I will insist on what happened to us before giving us the solution today and remind you, ladies and gentlemen, of the developments in the autumn of 2016. First the Prime Minister begins at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, which prejudges a decision of the Council of State. It does not even give a chance to unconstitutionalism. Nice Prime Minister! A nice Prime Minister who doesn't know what this instrument is, doesn't know what his thinking is, what his function under the Constitution is, but despite what he doesn't know, he tells us and what the result will be. Then what do we have colleagues? We have what some people have said - I did not say it, but I liked it - that'some people were caught with the sprout on the back'. We have what has been known for the Bank of Attica loans and a candidate in full consultation with the Government, if the government has not guided him from what comes out of the public speech. So we have what PASOK called a very nice SYRIZA Bank, SYRIZA Channel. Then, as soon as we heard and heard from the government that the Council of State accepted the applications for cancellation and would actually, Friday night, around 8 o'clock, I was informed by the House that there was an amendment to the Pope. In five days, everything would be done by the Minister of State and there would be black in the channels. In five days. That is how that amendment was described. He withdrew this amendment. Then there was an attempt to have the administration of the PSE without knowing the decision of the Council of State. This attempt was made, it was rightly deplored by the Opposition and it did not pass. Then, as we learned, the unconstitutionality of the law of the Minister of State was decided. On the same night the Government spokesman, i.e. the entire government, attacks justice in the worst way, as assessed by all the judicial and prosecutor associations that came out and spoke very hard about the government. It's all done in a few weeks. Then, the next day, which is formed after panic and attacks on justice, announces an amendment - bridge for those who entered the competition and take it back. We then have the Polydora communication, since it was preceded by the fact that the amendment will be tabled after the attempt to have an PSE at the Conference of Presidents. And they take that back. The Conference of Presidents is taking place and the amendment comes a few minutes ago, but with a candidate for Mr Polydora, against whom all the opposition parties and many of what was seen by SYRIZA, by the majority, had an opposite opinion. Mr. Polydoras is withdrawn. After all, with the assurance of the President of this House - which has played a role for us - at the Conference of Presidents, we, as the Democratic Alliance of PASOKs - DIMAR I would like to remind you that we have proposed that Professor Salimellis for President of the PSE, without having contacted and consulted him, to state the type of man we want to be there, a man of war, a man who has a good witness outside, because we are all aware of his objective approaches. And we said that we have not discussed it with him, because we did not want to have brought a proposal which we de facto would be, but to show a character that should govern the man who will take over the PSE. And then what happened at the Conference of Presidents. The next morning, Mr. Evangelatos and Mr. SKAI, the Minister of State, made sure that the attempts, those imposed by the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, are put to the vote on the PSE, because 4/5 is a constitutional regulation, so it is imperative that all authorities and the PSE should find a common solution. He did not like the Minister of State and took care of him twice, even today he was clear and unambiguous - not here that he had been folded, "validity" said by Mr. Kegeroglu, but in the morning at "SKAI" - to blow everything up in the air by insisting on four channels, that this will be the Government's suggestion and so on, while at the same time he has brought an amendment from Monday where the famous 2A article is suspended, where, for the first application of the law, Mr. Papa. And while Mr Voutsis had warned that there will also be the amendment on the PSE's assent to the number of licences, he is insisting today. And I ask: How could the government insist, ladies and gentlemen, since the PSE is an Independent Authority, since this is in line with today's amendment that it has the competence to propose to the Minister, who takes the formal act, how much will the channels be, but cannot be sent - in today's amendment - to the PSE's assent? How would it affect the organ? Are your proposals, gentlemen of the Government, proposals from Mr Voutsi, are proposals from people who will play the role of transport? Is that what you mean? Minister, you're in panic. I have nothing personal with you, really nothing. You are a young man who entered politics, but you thought that because your strength was increased, all of a sudden, you can do it both with justice and with the House and with the executive. If you had submitted your resignation, you would not have had the need, Minister, to make yourself self-evident every day, to try and salvage your political capital, saying "four leavers, that will be the government's proposal", when you are all cleared. You should have done it, regardless of whether the Prime Minister would accept it, who is the only one in charge. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that the institutionalists of us are giving up tensions. Even if the Prime Minister, who is entitled not to accept it, does not accept it, the Minister has made his obligation. When, as I said in the morning, for fourteen months, you have upset the country, so that it is time, ladies and gentlemen, for those who have spoken of lawlessness in the broadcasting landscape and resisted - because they have said, on the other hand, how much money the channels have paid for so many years, and we also have a picture of what everyone has paid and who has not paid and who is helping who has not paid, in any case - instead of adjusting to save something from his political chapter, he is contradicting what the others say. And why does he do that? He does, because he has to tell the majority MPs and public opinion that the man who went to carry out his own information, who did not succeed, who did what he had to do to satisfy his Prime Minister in relation to organised and organised information, who did what he did in the broadcasting landscape, in any case keeps something from his political status and forgets that as he has done with the abolition of the mainstreaming of its legislative intervention in 2015, the landscape remains completely unregulated. Temporary leave has expired. Nobody knows what's going on today! When they hear him in the morning, those who feared unemployment ask: 'Will he insist?'
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u261	Mr. Loverdo, we're moving towards the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u262	Those of us who say, ladies and gentlemen, that the rascals are not going through, there is a decision of justice whatever is being machined in the short term. But I want to tell the Minister of State that he should at least try to politically bear no more lies. This morning, I heard you say that the composition of the Broadcasting Council was irregular. Ladies and gentlemen, do you remember that an amendment abolished all the administrations of the independent authorities? And I have in front of me of a plenary decision of the Council of State in relation to the question, ladies and gentlemen - to be serious - 'The provision of this article of the Law that extends the term of office of members of the National Broadcasting Council violates Article 101 of the Constitution'. Questions to the Legal Affairs Council. And he answers: 'No, he's not invaded'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u263	The S.T.E. he said otherwise.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u264	It is 2015, Mr Colleague, that. And the Minister this morning invoking the Legal Council of State said things that do not apply, insisting that they somehow protect their political capital.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u265	Mr. Loverdo, put a perfect one. The MPs are waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u266	I'm on my way. The consensus possible at the Conference of Presidents shall not apply to the Minister. It does not only concern him because he is Minister, but because he is the Minister with these things. As far as the amendments, ladies and gentlemen, we want, we do not want, in a legally strong or inappropriate manner, the whole of the outside of the public debate room, but also from some and within the Chambers, turns around the verb of Monday's amendment'stop' and the proposal is to be'repealed'. This change will help to achieve a large majority today and in today's amendment, which you are talking about as an assent. That's good. What is the problem, ladies and gentlemen, Minister of State?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u267	Please, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u268	I'll be done. It does not extend the change you make to all the responsibilities that you have assumed under Article 2(4) of the Act. And let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that in the first law before the amendments, the constitutional tensions concerned mainly Article 2(4). So he comes to treat her with this weakness he caused, but does not complete it. You don't mention prices...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u269	Mr. Loverdo, please, finish!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u270	Please, one last sentence. I would ask the Minister of State, I call him - several problems he has created - to accept these changes in order to enable the process of applying Article 101 of the Constitution to be completed and acquired now and for the Independent Authority of the EPP of its normal administration to be completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u271	Mrs. Panayota Kozombol has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u272	Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot comment on the distinctive sensitivity of some who spoke before me about workers in the media when they know that they are responsible for the 'black' in the ERT. They did not have the same sensitivity at that time when six hundred unemployed were left in ALTER, they did not remember to mourn at that time from the predominant and already enforced lawlessness, when "AFTERMINATION" and other media, all due to the lawlessness that had been imposed, which was in the past twenty-five years in this place, now mourn for the workers supposedly and to fight for them. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr L.4339/2015 imposed upon him, he actually gave birth to an agony, a common admission, created by the Greek society, and almost all the wings of this House. The proof is that most of the articles of this law, of Law No.4339, were voted on by all the wings of the Parliament. What admission is this? To enter order into the lawlessness and the unreserved landscape of the media, to end a situation that the Council of State describes as irresponsible. The large number of legislative provisions regulating the media sector in the past twenty-five years, because of their ineffective application, has led to the passing of the entire analogue television era without licences being granted to television stations - as this implies - contrary to the established case-law of the Council of State. Efforts to legislate, but also to legislate without legislation that has been passed in the past, prove that the political will to break down the lawlessness was insulting the interests that wanted to preserve this regime with the solemn prerogative of the latter. Given the enormous power to influence and to formulate the collective consciences that television has on television in particular - which goes to the point that indirect television experience also underpins this experience of life - and without rules on the functioning of television media, it raises the issue of the functioning of its own democracy. This common admission therefore created Law 439/2015, whereby, inter alia, the licensing procedure is provided through a tendering procedure at the National Broadcasting Council. Although the Council's exclusive competence under Article 15 of the Constitution is only the control and enforcement of administrative sanctions. The unsuccessful efforts to set up the National Broadcasting Council and the necessary need to regulate the unregulated landscape have led to the transitional provision - because it is a transitional provision - of Article 2A, by which, in the first application of the Act, the licensing, by auction, is again assigned to the Secretariat-General for Information. It is clear that the 2A provision does not remove powers from the National Broadcasting Council, but only bypasses it once after the three official failures - because unofficial efforts had been made before - to form the National Broadcasting Council and to pass six months after the law was passed, given the malfunctioning of Article 101 of the Constitution, which requires an increased majority of 4/5 for the establishment of the institution. Either this majority or nothing. There is no other possibility available, and we do not find this anywhere else. Even in the election of the President of the Republic, we know that there are alternatives. However, provision 101 of the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen, was introduced to reach consensus and consensus and not to blackmail. We therefore have a multitude of decisions by the Council of State or in the form of cancellation of fines, because the National Broadcasting Council was not properly structured, or directly. The state, under the Constitution, has responsibility and had to go ahead. Today, in my personal view, provision 2A of Law No.4339 does not apply, because the first application of the law has taken place. However, in view of the forthcoming adoption of the decision of the Council of State, I think it is right to freeze the competitive licensing procedure initiated by this provision, at the same time signalling the lifting of the stage, the achievement of conferences, the conclusion of agreement, the support for the establishment of the National Television Council. It paves the way for the settlement of the broadcasting landscape in the spirit of the Constitution and the decisions of the Council of State. Further strengthening of the institutional role of the National Broadcasting Council is the second amendment, which provides that the establishment of the number of auctioned licences will be carried out in agreement with the National Broadcasting Council, which commits the decision-making body. This is, in fact, being upgraded by the Television Council. I should like to point out here that this provision of the upgrading has been in excess of all previous legislation since 1989, which entrusts this responsibility to the Minister. It also causes the late view of the Association of Centrals of the withdrawal of the law as a whole, when - as I said before - the Union of Centres - as many of the parties - has voted eight of the sixteen articles of the law which are now calling for withdrawal. Ladies and gentlemen, because the problems affecting Greek society and our country are much more serious than to discuss whether legality and constitutionality will be implemented or not, we must go beyond it. The Greek society's demand is for us to move forward and vote unanimously on the proposed amendments that are being upgraded by the National Broadcasting Council, to pave the way for its establishment, to settle the broadcasting landscape. The opposite, ladies and gentlemen, is lawlessness and constitutional diversion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u273	Mr. Adonis Georgiadis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u274	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Papapas, I must personally congratulate you - and I say this with great openness - despite the major failures in the Council of State. I congratulate you. You have managed for two months to change the agenda and discuss the entire Greek society as if the country had no more problems, as if it were to be the issue of the final authorization of television stations the top issue of our country. And that, in a sense, is very helpful to your government. Today we had to talk about pensioners, whom you fooled and cut their pensions, while you promised them a thirteenth pension. Today we had to discuss how you were able to lose only from the recapitalisation of the banks that did not need and which was made due to your first six-month negotiation - hear the number that the Greek State, Mr Papapas, has lost in bank stock values for which you are being cut - 30 000 million euros. You and your government received 34 billion euros as bank stock values and made them in nine months. You lost 30,000 million. And go out and make suggestions. You lost 30,000 million and Mr. Pappas laughs. And he has the courage to go out on the channels and say: "I defend the public interest. I brought you 258 million." Bravo! We miss twenty-nine thousand eight hundred million! Don't laugh at all! Indeed, it is a form of success that we have been discussing this for so long, as if it were the major issue. Well, it's not the big deal. Solve the country's serious issues and resolve this as well. But it's not the big deal. In this sense, and your intention to legislate before you even take the decision of the Council of State, serves this strategy, to convince the Greek people of the importance of this matter. But let's go see them in turn, Mr. Pappa. First of all, you want to lay the burden of not forming the board in the New Democracy. Mr. Papachristopoulos says so on every channel that comes out. That, besides being wrong, is a lie, because you know well that we had a council. The board was the one that abolished it, you personally. And why did you abolish it? And don't move your head at all. So why did you abolish it? Because you wanted to take Mrs. Lina Alexiou away. Does the name Zoe Konstantopoulou mean anything to you? Do you remember that at all? Well done. So because you wanted to take out Mrs Zois Konstantopoulou's mother - you former comrades here who applaud her when she was President of the House and say what is important - from the council and you could not just rinse one, you abolished one night here all the Council that was in existence, which could meet and proceed with the procedures. So, today we have no council, because you didn't want the mother of Zoe Konstantopoulou, to get to know each other. But let's go, then. What did you do? After you guarded the responsibilities of the National Broadcasting Council, then you also demanded that the New Democracy and the rest of the opposition come and vote for a council. And you have the ever greater courage to accuse the Qualified Opposition of not doing - it says - a constructive opposition. You come and say you, Pope, Tsipras, who, as Head of the Opposition, did not vote for a single article, did not vote for an independent authority and did not put a back on the national negotiation - because then you told us that you would send out Shoeble, Merkel, etc. - of the country, that we are not making a constructive opposition. And it doesn't drop the ceiling here to kick your ass! But now we are actually going to see where we are today. You come on a legislative initiative. First of all, why do you come with this legislative initiative? You're coming because you're defeated against the state. Rarely in the political history of our country, a Minister has been defeated as strong and as clear as you. And you didn't have the least emotiveness to give up. That, I confess, is unprecedented. I recall Mr. Tsipras's statement at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition: "It is incomprehensible that the Council of State should make the Pappa law unconstitutional. Incomprehensible!' So well you had informed your Prime Minister and exposed him in this way. Unless it was his, first opinion, and he has just been exposed as much as so many others, which is not at all ruled out. Now we are going to the position of the New Democracy to be clear and informed. The New Democracy, of course, wants there to be a council. The New Democracy, which you are accusing of for uncompromising politics, has voted for four independent authorities already when you had not voted for one. And you who had not voted for one, to blame the New Democracy for blocking the independent authorities. But why haven't we voted for it? Because our position from the outset is quite clear and given, to be informed. We have absolutely no confidence, no confidence, we consider you absolutely unreliable. I personally - and I will say this - think of you as the moral officer, the head of mind, of the attempt to blackmail the court with the well-known headlines of "AGEY", where after having published it your party body on a front page - your party newspaper has published it - you then came out and said it is unacceptable for the judge to go out on the air. Such hypocrisy! What do we think you want to do? We believe that what you are now trying to do - and which you missed this morning, thankfully, on SKAI TV, so that we can all be informed in the Chamber here - is very simple. Make a board controlled by you. In other words, to lure the opposition as a whole into building a board controlled by you and to restore, precisely, your attempt to close the channels and shape the broadcasting scene in the way you wish through the Broadcasting Council. That's what you want to do! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Because if you didn't want to do this, you'd be brave and say in your interviews today and in change, that all right, this case is over, we're going to find a consensual solution with everyone to create a new broadcasting map with definitive permissions. But you didn't do that. What did you say in your interview at SKAI this morning? You said that, of course, the Pappa law continues, it is only a little delay in its implementation due to the decision of S.H.E., Mr. Loverdos. That was Mr. Pappa's exact phrase. Its application is a little delayed! And there, Mr. Voutsi, you put all four. Minister's back in four.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u275	Mr. Georgiadis, you can't delay any longer. You'll put a perfect one now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u276	And the assent it gives today is, of course, a major retreat in relation to what it said before because of the Council of State. However, it only makes sense if we really have an independent national broadcasting board. If you have a party, such as Mr Mulopoulos - I say one example - we certainly do not have an independent Broadcasting Council.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u277	Mr. Moronis!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u278	Don't move your head, sir. Didn't you know that he was in the management team of "AGEY" Mr. Mulopoulos, that he is your party executive? You don't know that? If your purpose is...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u279	Mr. Georgiadis, are you opening a dialogue now at this hour? Your time's up. For reasons of enthusiasm with your colleagues, put a perfect one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u280	...there's a lot of nerve!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u281	Hello?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u282	All right, now! Brain!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u283	If your purpose is to lure us into a controlled council just to implement the law that the Council of State did not allow you to apply and send people on the road as you wanted - if that is what you want to do -, I assure you that the New Democracy will prevent you from doing so. If you really want to make a council, the New Democracy will be constructive. But you should leave the arrogance you had in your previous speech and get out of there with courage and say: “I have failed. My law and my efforts are over. Let's go from zero to make a radio landscape with definitive permits."
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u284	Mr Georgiadis, you can no longer ignore the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u285	Finally, to close down where I started, I will say this: it is nonetheless that this issue is the biggest problem for Greece today - where you have had us a whole country to deal with for two months - nor have you done anything very important as you think it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u286	Mr. Shahinides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u287	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in today's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus, although our special speaker had originally declared a reservation today, you have heard very well that we are positive. We are positive because we could not do otherwise as Greek nationalists we from Golden Dawn. For us, because Cyprus is not Greek, but it is Greece, in whatever is best for the island of Cyprus we will be positive. As regards what has been said by Ministers SYRIZA: Your words, Mr Pappa, differ from your actions. Unfortunately, your actions are unaware of your reasons. You referred to your position and asked for the consent so that we could vote together on the amendments you bring to each bill. Unfortunately, this cannot be done. In Amendment No 734 and in Amendment No 9, which you tabled, it is not repealed, it is simply suspended. While we were willing to vote from 'Paris' to 'Yes', in no case could we support it. With regard to the other amendments: with the amendment of a general number 740 - the last you have tabled - you are asking, Minister, to try to alleviate the contradictions that have arisen with regard to the burning issue of television licences and, allegedly, the National Television Council for obvious reasons of political feasibility. Specifically, you propose to change a word in Article 2 of Law No.4339/2015, with the agreement of the ERC instead of the word "reasoned" that has been in force so far. It is obvious that your effort, Minister, wants to blur the waters and, once again, prove the inconsistency shown by this government between its words and works. With Amendment No 738 and a special 9, Mr Kontonis, the Ministry of Culture and Sport introduces a provision proposing the appointment of a normalization committee composed of members appointed by a Joint Committee of FIFA and UEFA. This normalisation committee will have as its first task to manage the day-to-day issues of FIFA, secondly, to correct FIFA's regulation arrangements when it is of course necessary and thirdly, to define the federation's elections by 31 May. If nothing else, Minister, it states incompetence. Are you not able to define when the elections will take place in the NDP? As regards Amendment No 739 on the excessive deficit, the Ministry here introduces an amendment designed to circumvent Greek legislation and effectively to dominate European legislation on matters relating to Greek public procurement. Direct awards by way of derogation from the existing institutional framework for public procurement can be made by the Hellenic Company of Participants and Property SA, the "Greek Tourism Real Estate" and the Financial Stability Fund. With this amendment you have tabled, signed by the Finance Ministers - Mr Tsakalotos and Mr Stathakis - the Government gives you the opportunity for the supranational and all its subsidiaries to introduce by their own regulations derogations from national public procurement legislation for awards over and below the financial limits provided for in Article 5 of Law 4412/2016. This provision also applies to the GOI. There is, in fact, this absurdity, which we have mentioned on several occasions both in the committees and in the House. As I had told you on other occasions, the agency had seventy - five thousand real estate titles, beaches and forests. Of them, clear titles were the sixteen thousand five hundred. At some point you should tell us in this Chamber how much you know exactly where they are and how much they are. And since none of you have mentioned the current situation, what I shall mention is directly related to what Mr Dritsas said earlier - and even referred to after the position of our special speaker - who said he will be facing any problem calmly. I call on the Minister to place himself publicly within the plenary Chamber and to tell us what his view is about Mustafa Akinji's statements yesterday. He had a meeting with the Special Adviser of the United Nations, Espen Barth Eide, and said: "Let the Greek Cypriots leave the absolute approach to zero army and zero guarantees. We ourselves want to understand that it is not with this approach to lead to a solution." As you can see, it is a very clear statement from the perpetual point of view that Mustafa will not retreat on any matter concerning the occupation troops. We hope that the President, Mr. Nicos Anastasiades, will return from his visit from Switzerland as Nicos and not as Nicoglou. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u288	Mrs. Aphrodite Theophevette from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u289	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if we follow the Vice-Presidents, if anyone attends this debate, he understands that private television has started for fourteen months. This story about private channels has started since 1989, which abolished the monopoly on public radio and television stations. Fifteen laws were adopted during this period, of which the four anticipated a competition that never took place. Instead, we had ministerial decisions, that is, the Minister decided to grant temporary leave or not to grant temporary leave. It is very recent that all witnesses' statements from our committee of inquiry on how these channels received hundreds of millions of banks, which the banks gave abundantly. For the first time - I repeat, for the first time - the government has tried to put an end to this chaos and that lawlessness. For us it is a question of democracy and it is a matter of political culture. Another point is that, until the decision of the StU - which I am passing away from 1989 until now has been made - several decisions of the StU that have never been enforced by the administration - we, while respecting the decision, have been suspended for this reason in Article 2a. But the S.H.E. also sends another message to everyone, that is, it needs to be immediately set up the National Broadcasting Council and put an end to lawlessness after twenty-seven years. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to refer to an amendment that I tabled on the incompatibility of financial aid, compensation and aid to those who have suffered the consequences of earthquake disasters, floods and fires. Article 38 of L.4315 on the humanitarian crisis provided for concrete aids to be in an irresponsible account. Rehabilitation, i.e. state aid, was excluded to repair or rebuild one's first residence and until this was done, rent subsidies and other aids. I recognise that the content is of the Infrastructure and Finance Ministries, but I think that this amendment will be accepted unanimously, because it will be directly applicable to people who have problems, have debts and must be submitted to an unreasonable account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u290	We too thank Mrs Theopevetatos and the management of time. Mr. Javarras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u291	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is gratifying that in history things are shaped independently of the idea we have for them. And I say this because at least Mr Chakalotos should know that Western civilization exists regardless of his and your party's idea of his importance and value. However, it seems that he has acceded to the opinion of Mr. Phile, which attempts to delete from the chapter of Greek history that page relating to the Persian wars. Obviously, both of them have adopted Marx's western inspiration that little book, the spirit of Asian production, and unfortunately, I am sorry that you want to apply it to Greece as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u292	What's this? What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u293	You liked it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u294	Garrity has said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u295	Now to you, Minister of State. The same applies to democratic institutions. In fact, the democratic institutions in this place apply and continue to apply to the perception of your idea and your perception of democracy. And that, because it obviously did not happen to you to learn or realize that the Constitution has a specific ideological choice, which is liberalism. So I understand your difficulty. I would even say that I see you suffocate when you serve the provisions of the Constitution, because a man like you, a left-hand man, with a left-hand inspiration, has to serve liberal institutions. And that justifies all this embarrassment you have after what you have told us here that the Council of State has adopted on the unconstitutionality of your law. But what is more worth saying is that this particular constitution in Article 15(2) states it with such clarity, with such clarity, I would even say, up to that point, that it does not leave the joint legislature to do any other job, except to organise as an independent administrative authority. But you, through your law, tried to shrink and curtail this constitutional requirement, and for that, the Council of State, which is the guardian, the guarantor of proper compliance with the Constitution, has led you to this difficult position. However, what I will also be allowed to say is that here in this Chamber, I would even say even more strongly that people's sovereignty is being prosecuted in a real, real and symbolic way. It is therefore inconceivable that you should be contagious by the government's chairs. It is in breach of Parliament's parliamentary relationship with your presence in the government. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] However, the most serious of all is that today you are coming here and bringing two amendments from which - I will be allowed, Mr President, for two minutes to continue - one is trying to legislate something that is out of Parliament's legislative competence, because it is not necessary, that this particular provision you bring, with which you are in some way involved, and with which you have retreat to the view of unconstitutionality of your law, you are coming to tell us that 'I will serve and safeguard the meaning of Rule 15(2)'. As you say, then, any provision of your law is unconstitutional or any provision of your own law, you do not need to bring law to the House. This, based on the Constitution, which you want to serve with the laws, is not applicable unless you want to convince us that you are really possessed by this intention, so you must abolish it. If you do not abolish it, you will allow me to charge you with legislative wickedness, which in this Parliament has a historical precedent. And this previous one refers to the attempt by Agamemnon Koutsiogiorgas, when he was in a similar position, like you. The Council of State had recognised the unconstitutionality of a law proposed by it, brought it to the House and it was passed by the House and then by a provision similar to the one you are proposing today, it kept the matter supposedly pending until a political trial was created, which ended in the Arable Ice, in order to take a opposite view from the Arable Ice and the issue of being brought to the Supreme Special Court, where the disagreements between the Supreme Courts are removed and succeeded in making a decision on constitutionality. If that is what you want, you obviously do not abuse the application of the Constitution, you do something worse, you do it. With regard to the second amendment you are bringing, which you say that after the depressing - because no one knows it - a decision of the Council of State you want to make the Minister, who has no competence over licences, since you accept the decision of the Council of State, to take a decision on the number of licences with the only difference that, while you said that a reasoned decision is needed, a previous decision of the Broadcasting Council, you are coming today and saying that we are in agreement. Well, listen. Whether the opinion is in agreement or documented and justified, the Constitution is in breach of it, because the Minister does not have the power to decide, given that the decision is taken by the broadcasting board only. And something final, because you and the Prime Minister always say that it is so high the price and use this word, "price", that no one can resist the coercion that the country creates at this difficult moment from an economic point of view. Well, I can inform you that within the Constitution - and especially within Article 15(2) - there are arrangements relating to non-exchangeable riches. And these riches are the cultural development of the Greek people...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u296	Please, Mr. Javarra, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u297	It is the objective and on an equal footing of the Greek people and, above all, respect for human value. And for that you have done nothing, but no hint anywhere, and for that reason your law is the only one from which it is intended and held is how you will create such a regime that serves the bourgeois-type intentions you have to create a parallel regime in relation to the current Constitution. However, we will not allow you and remember my words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u298	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how the House of Greeks is organised, ten eight students and students and two teachers from the private General School of Dimantopoulou. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Venizelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u299	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, what is going on in the plenary today? What's going on? The House is coming to testify in the most fascinating way to a gross political defeat of the government. The House is coming to record and finalise the rejection of a whole account on which the government's policy has been based in the past few months. In fact, another myth collapses. We have another denial. The story of the past twenty months is a story of constant disquiet and overthrow. Does this not affect the legitimacy of the government and its relationship with the electorate? It is influenced, as does great denial, by the historical, in relation to economic policy, by the third memorandum and the fourth which unfortunately follows in strict terms and possibly even without a loan. We'd warned. In this House I have had the opportunity four times to object to anti-constitutionalism for the legislative initiatives of the Government in relation to the licensing of television stations. We had told all tons that the application of the competence of the National Broadcasting Council is unconstitutional, that it is contrary to an explicit and unequivocal provision of Article 15(2) of the Constitution. We have said that the government cannot come with a law to declare that I have expired the mandate of members of the National Broadcasting Council, with a second one increasing the members from seven to nine, and with a third one saying that we do not have a National Broadcasting Council because we have killed it and therefore the powers are back where the Constitution removed them consciously and intentionally, namely the Minister and therefore the parliamentary majority. We also said that the oligopolistic perception of the four licences, the artificial, the inexplicable one, is also unconstitutional, not only because it is the responsibility of the National Broadcasting Council to determine the number of licences, but because the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights has an obligation on the State to provide the technically feasible number of licences, that is to say, to give those licenses that fit the spectrum. The indisposed spectrum, as the European Commission has said in its warning letter, through Mr Etinger, is a European Union good. So we also have a violation of European law on the telecommunications side of the legislation on television licences. What did the Council of State say, what everyone in the press perceived? I said before that you will see the reasons. And you will see what is not surprising to me, because I have the status of Professor of Constitutional Law. I have spent forty years of my life studying the issue of constitutional control, writing, judging decisions. I started at the age of twenty-four to law before the Council of State. The Council of State will say what is self-evident for any law. It's not only self-evident to the person who's acting unrelated or who's so unrecognized that he thinks he can offend the institutions and vulgarize them. Do you know what the epitome and peak of institutional vulgarity is? The argument that we received an eighty-five million advance, and in the name of eighty-five million, the highest court in the country must accept the destruction of the Constitution. And who says that? The government which has damaged the economy that exceeds EUR 100 billion with its operations and options, not the amount of the loan agreed by Mr. Tsipras in July 2015, but the change in the dynamics of the economy and the reversal of the dynamics of the public debt. The damage you have caused is incalculable, and it is courageous to say: 'But we have received 85 million'. And what happened? The stations that you now want to issue, the operating stations, have given more than 1.5 billion to the Greek State in recent years and for the use of frequencies.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u300	It was their obligation! They had to pay taxes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u301	But I say this again to you, the permits to publishers, to those who have the media in the past twenty-five years have been granted by a government in 1989 in which the ministers of the then united coalition were the main ministers. What you have done is a decaying crime against institutions, because the first line of attack may be about the media, but the second and most essential of justice. You have created institutions and people, blackmailed judges, violate the core of personal data, the most sensitive, and you thought that with levers of specific judicial officers, written in black letters in the history of justice, you can influence the will of the Council of State, which has its tradition, principles and confidence. But you do so in the other branches of judicial authority and you will pay for it very much what you do in justice. It will always turn against you, as it turned what you did to the media. Because what did you do? You went to organize a relationship of privileged, entrepreneurial, with specific interests and control the entire market and the whole landscape. Such courage and such a lack of democratic sensitivity! I told you it would be your political grave if you insisted, and when the new people go up to the tree, they will show their backs. They even looked before reaching the top of the tree and you had to retreat, which is degrading not for you, for Parliament, for the justice, for the public administration, for the miserable officials you have involved and have them sign in practice, issue attestations. Now the law has been sidelined as unconstitutional with the decision of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u302	Explain yourself! Not the law, a provision!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u303	The law! You'll see the arrangements. They recommend the heart of the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u304	You're making a mistake!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u305	Mr. Lappa, don't rush. Don't get ahead of yourself. It's not the Committee of Inquiry in which you think you're asking questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u306	The law was in '15. The device's in '16.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u307	The law...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u308	Let Mr. Venizelo end up. Finish up, Mr. Venizelo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u309	The law does not matter how many provisions it consists of. The law is waived as an anti-constitutional. And, of course, you will also be forced to take legislative compliance measures. If you do not take them, it is not possible to issue a valid administrative act, because all administrative acts will be cancelled.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u310	Of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u311	The argument that we are legally suspending the power of the infringing law, the anti-constitutional law, that is, the law which has defied the responsibilities of the National Broadcasting Council, and that we do not abolish it so that the state does not have civil responsibilities, is childish. Civil liability will exist anyway either in the event of an immediate abolition or in the event of a final abolition later. Because the law as unconstitutional and the annulment of administrative acts is what gives rise to a claim for damages when it comes to it. So, with what argument are you resisting now and giving an unnecessary and funny retardation battle? The anti-constitutional law must be abolished and the competence of the National Broadcasting Council must be fully attributed. The National Council should have the power to organise the tender, to determine the number of licences, to adopt all legislative acts, because its competence is also regulatory. Of course, as I have said, this also concerns competence and licences. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And now you will see that we will come to a result through the implementation of the decision of the Council of State, which will also be much better institutionalised, because it will be pluralist and transparent, but also budgetaryly better, because I have told you on several occasions that if the permits were eight, they would fit in the frequency spectrum, and the price for each licence was the same and the sum was much more than the sum of 250 million, who would have been hurt?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u312	Please, Mr. Venizelo, put a perfect one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u313	Your design for controlled oligopolistic information would have been damaged.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u314	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u315	I shall conclude, Mr President. After this happened, you attempted to relax both the Conference of Presidents and Parliament and the parties with the proposal for Mr. Polydora's candidacy in the name of a isobesm in the area of New Democracy with the arguments he has put forward, but also the government partner of SYRIZA. What arguments are they? Who are they addressing? Where are they targeting? Of course, I think that a sound answer has been given and I expect a more resounding answer to be given, because everyone, political actors and politicians, who have played a part in this country's history, must be protected. And what do you do with this method of constantly changing the names for the position of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the National Broadcasting Council? What kind of defection of faces is that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u316	Please, Mr. Venizelo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u317	And what a courtesy to go to the Conference of Presidents to support Mr Polydora's candidacy and then celebrating and comfortingly Mr Voutsis to change the name of the candidate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u318	Please, we're done, Mr. Venizelo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u319	There is no relationship between credibility and trust between you. Finally, I sum up a phrase. Don't play. If the government wants to restore constitutional order and have a framework of fundamental political consensus, the contested provision must be abolished, the competence of the National Broadcasting Council must be fully restored to the respective amendment of the law, that there are no indirect arrangements in the text of the law, which restrict the number of licences, and then I am sure there will be a National Broadcasting Council with president and members, which will be worthy of the institutional role, but also of the anticipation that the Greek people have to do what they did not want to do and that Mr Tsipras' government has not been able to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u320	Thank you, Mr. Venizele.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u321	Or rather what he had to do, but he wanted to do exactly the opposite, check out information and limit freedoms.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u322	Mr Balaurras has the floor for a minute for the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u323	I have an amendment. That's why they gave me the floor. I'll talk for a second. It is an extension of a deadline which expired on 31 October and is extended until 31-12-2016. It concerns the merger of existing PVCs, i.e. the Waste Collection Boats, in the regional PVC links. That is what I wanted to say, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u324	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u325	We agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u326	We agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u327	Mr. Javarras and Mr. Koutsukos said they agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u328	Mr Karras, Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u329	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Balaurra's speech changes my speech, Mr Colleague, because, for the FOSTAs you mentioned, I have to say 'yes' logically. If the merger is not possible, it should be extended, even as a minimum. But I have a question, not to you, to the most competent ones: on the one hand, why has it not been achieved so long and, on the other, why have the solid waste management plans of the Attica region and the other regions been abolished and the process started on a zero basis? The second is that if there was a real need for an extension, which I do not reject, the Minister would have brought it in to explain to us why solid waste management plans could not be merged and operated. You, my dear fellow Member, unfortunately cannot answer these details and I live there.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u330	I can answer, but the President won't give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u331	Welcome, Mr. Balaura.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u332	Mr President, five minutes is my time as a parliamentary representative?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u333	Yes, Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u334	So lazy? Then I'll say it sooner.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u335	Unless you want to speak as much as Mr. Venizelos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u336	I will not comment on this because it must have two addressees. I see another amendment, which I consider to be very serious and with which I would like to begin. It is the amendment that changes the recent public procurement law, which has come to Parliament as an obligation by European directives, as the modernisation of public procurement, which means better results for the country as well. If we can conclude contracts that will also have a foreign response, we may also have funds to receive from abroad. But at the moment I see something else, which pityes me. I read it, I follow it, it is, first of all, technical, but it is completely legal, because it gives the lead and places Greek law outside our legal framework and our legal culture. It says ‘by way of derogation from national public procurement legislation’. I consider this to be a very serious restriction, not only of legal culture but of national sovereignty, giving a unique example: at the moment we are taking out the Greek courts from differences in public procurement, those which will be carried out on the basis of the regulations that do not follow Greek legislation, but only follow European legislation. The Minister told us it would be approved by the Public Procurement Authority. She ties her hands, however, after she tells her that Greek law does not apply, but European law must be applied. Furthermore, the most important thing is that since we do not have the application of Greek law, we do not have jurisdiction and jurisdiction of the Greek courts here. What will they judge if they do not apply Greek law? They won't be able to judge it. In this sense, therefore, at least you legal colleagues understand that we are still putting a Memorandum of Understanding on the subject, which comes with an amendment to a recent legislation, which we have voted on, on public procurement. At this point, as a Centro Association, we are putting ourselves in a negative position, while we have passed the Public Procurement Act, which we thought would be a step forward. In relation to the issue, the major issue, I think, in the Chamber today, which is channel licences. The Minister, who I do not see here, in an interview with him, said that the Centro Association voted for some articles - eight, he numbered them - when he voted for No.4339 and cannot today ask for the law to be withdrawn. That would be right, and I would not have any arguments to see if the question with Article 2A were not raised for months after the n legislation. 4339, he changed all his philosophy. Because the original philosophy was that the Minister should have some competence in the competitive process, but we were expecting the role of the PSE to be upgraded. After a few months, therefore, he told us about only four licences during the mono-state system. He judged and decided, or I don't know what else. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would ask for your tolerance. After that, he says that during the first application of the law, the Minister will give them. We have now objected, not only because the competitive process and as a philosophy is being shaken. We expect to hear a new law, which will also be placed in a new framework for channel licensing, in that the criteria must be different. It is not only, as has now been demonstrated by the experience that we have a year in this House, the economic criteria of the auction. There must be different criteria and it is not the major financial result for us. Let a rewarding end to the operation of the channels in order to pay off the equals they would claim in the auctions. We therefore have the view that the law should be withdrawn, that it should be discussed in the first place. We shall now go to the famous two amendments. I'll agree with Mr. Javarra. What's the first? What's he telling us? He tells us he's suspended until the Council of State decides. In any event, even if the Council of State is void, is the actions which it will cancel are not null and void? The legal world is gone. However, there is one issue in there which concerns me, ladies and gentlemen. The 2A has two paragraphs. The first paragraph speaks of the number of four licences. As far as I can tell - and I may also be mistaken - the Council of State is not dealing with this, at least in this decision, on which we expect the reasons for the number '4'. So it keeps us. And the Minister keeps it to us somewhere else. In our second amendment it says that the reasoned opinion of the PSE is in agreement, that is to say, restricts the Minister to his power, but that also has problems for us, firstly, because this provision applies to the future, as it comes. The legalisation of the four licences has already been carried out. If it is not abolished, it will remain, even if it says anything to the Council of State, to transfer responsibilities from ERC to the Minister. And if you want - and I will end with this, Mr President - it also raises a question, formally replacing a word of the whole of Article 2 paragraph 4 and retains the 'in the first application of this legislation', even if the number of auctioned licences is repeated. That's what he's telling us again. Where's the PSE here? The EPP will have the advisory or decisive authority if it is made 'accordance' with the Minister. The PSE does not have the power to propose to Parliament. Neither the Constitution, nor the Rules of Parliament, nor anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u337	Finish it, Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u338	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. With these considerations, therefore, we are at least hesitant about these two amendments. We expect the debate to take shape, because we believe that our concern is sound, strong, and we do not want more difficult and more serious problems to come back in the future. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u339	Thank you, too. Mr Pafilis, Parliamentary Representative of the JRC, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u340	I am going to talk about the two most important amendments and on this subject in the broadcasting landscape, because our rapporteur has referred to the rest. There's been a lot of noise. You have "deceased" the Greek people three months with who will take the channels, as if the Greek people don't know that the businessmen will get them. But it suits you all, and SYRIZA, the government and the New Democracy. And it suits you because in other things you have agreed strategically. You have voted for the third memorandum. You agree - it is almost certain - that what comes in the second assessment, which concerns overcoming operational contracts, namely abolishing sectoral contracts, increasing the rate of redundancies, changing the trade union law, and we do not know what else is going to come. That is why you have made the mother of the battles. The case of the channels, slowly blood! The place's full! And I'll say why. We therefore want to say this, perhaps by making a risky prediction: the hardest phrases - why are they - battles done - when, Mr Javarra? - before the conclusion of a peace. In other words, it is now apparent that the people behind it and all that will oblige you all to reach an agreement. Looks like it. We don't call it an absolute way. What is our position on these amendments? Mr Pappas is not here, but I think he will be following the meeting. Our position is to do with the criticism we made in the law of SYRIZA, as it was called, Papa, but it is the law of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. Our criticism was not about constitutionality and unconstitutionality. Stop mocking the Greek people about constitutionality and unconstitutionality, which is interpreted as interpreted. Our criticism was not in terms of the role of the PSE, the National Broadcasting Council, if it was greater or smaller, even though we pointed out that the Minister was being given overpower. However, these two, the constitutionality and the role of the PSE, were flagged by the New Democracy and the PASOK and set up a whole story to again hide the strategic agreement in the policy of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, which is a policy of reconstruction of the capitalist system, implementation of European Union policies and everything else. What was our criticism? We said that the government with this law attempts to redistribute the pie to the media, between old and new "jobs", trying to create a more friendly environment for the media for the government. And, of course, there was the controversy with the New Democracy, which defended another part of these interests. And let's leave the point of objective information. I'll say below. The fact that the government would take it from the rich and give it to the poor, all this - I'll say it this way - is hypocrisy. On the one hand it breaks the popular layers - pensions, taxation, HISPIA, everything - and on the other not only maintains but extends the privileges of big capital, which is what controls the media. And not only does it extend them, but it gives them more, by development law, with new incentives, which it has voted on. And he says he'll get 250 million, and he'll actually give them billions and they'll get from elsewhere. So what does this anti-constitutionalism-constitutional conflict cover? He's covering up the main problem. And here we need to be honest and clear. So I ask you directly: do you object to SYRIZA, ANEL, New Democracy, PASOK and all the others that the media belong to entrepreneurs? Yes or no? You're totally in agreement. Isn't that right? Do you have any objections to that? So strategically you have the same policy. Why are you killing yourself? Who will serve what interests and whether they will be more friendly to the government or more hostile to the opposition, or one or the other. That's the point. This is what you cover up in the Greek people. And that's about democracy, let it go. Say it anywhere else. What democracy? When the media is controlled by businessmen, namely shipowners, industrialists, contractors, the country's wealth holders, what policy will they do? Are you kidding us now? Are you kidding the Greek people?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u341	You had TV, too, and you sold it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u342	What kind of briefing are they going to do? They will defend their own interests. That's what they've been doing all these years, and that makes sense. They serve the interests of their class. And leave now the mockeries for objective information. Whatever's best for them, that's what they'll show. And it's no coincidence that 99% on the news has the same news. Second, are they going to play political games? Of course they'll play. It's the order of authority. No one else has it. Thirdly, is that not the conflict between the parties? Yes or no? That's the main problem. This puts the Communist Party of Greece against the Greek people. So what do you all think? That you're going to put order on capitalism, make an objective briefing to the benefit of the people and make a quality cultural programme? What are you talking about? Are you kidding us? Isn't the Greek people seeing all this garbage that's been projected? Doesn't he see his head bitten from morning to night? Does it not see that if they say that "the donkey is flying", the Greek people will say "yes, fly" why do all the channels say it? Who are you laughing at? So that's the main problem, and that's our position. That is why we are voting'representations' in relation to the Television Council and the independent authorities. And, you know, let me tell you something now, so the world that listens to us can also know: What independent authorities? Who are you working for? What independent authorities are we talking about? No one will say: Yes, they are independent, because apart from the ERR elected by 4/5...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u343	To end up, Mr. Palphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u344	The others spoke more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u345	I'm saying it because you have a tough schedule. You need to leave later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u346	What independent authorities are you telling us about? Who appoints them? Who decides? The government in question, in addition to the National Broadcasting Council, which is supposed to be 4/5, is supposed to have the agreement of the rest. And of course it will. Because there is this principle that will oblige you all to agree together, namely that businessmen have the information. So why aren't they independent? Firstly, what are the independent authorities doing? Are they applying the dominant policy of this system, which serves the interests of big capital, yes or no? Let's tell energy. What will the independent authority apply to energy? Liberation of energy, gradual privatisation and European directives, yes or no? So it's not independent. Secondly, it is not independent, because at the end of the day the government appoints it. The New Democracy has raised the issue of the National Broadcasting Council very high, followed by SYRIZA and puts it further. The National Broadcasting Council what will it do, really? Will he have an objective briefing? Will businessmen be informed objectively? He'll put on some rules that'll be a fig sheet. So what else is he gonna do? Will she have quality TV? So he's gonna tell them they're not supposed to play serial? What kind of serial, really? Because now we're provoking. In the serials, everyone is rich, swimming pools, cars expensive, villas. That's how our people live? Virtual reality in genuine Greek, virtual reality, delusion, the world's dream is supposed to live through the serials. What are you gonna tell them? Don't put these serials on? Of course not. So it's a mock. We're asking people who stand up for it, too. Wasn't there a National Broadcasting Council all these years? There was. Was there an objective briefing? Who's gonna go out and say it? Who has the courage? Nobody. Was there quality in the cultural events and in the presentation? Oh, no. What were promoted, and indeed in a vulgar way many times? The dominant ideology, always through the media. Did the National Broadcasting Council block it? Oh, no. That is why we, too, disagree and say that we are voting 'at present', which is why we are addressing the Greek people, and we say it very simply: 'Worker, pensioner, poor farmer, will you earn anything tomorrow if the χ or the ch is allowed? Will you live better? Will the payroll increase? Will you have better social conditions, school, health, culture? Of course not. What's gonna happen? Instead of sharing the pie with some, he'll share in more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u347	Mr. Paphie, don't even speak serial, even quality. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u348	I'm done, Mr. President. So organize your struggle, don't listen to them. Both serve the interests of the class that dominates. They simply fight and express different shares." Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u349	Thank you, Mr. Paphie. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how this House organises and operates, thirty-eight students and students and two attendants of teachers from the 7th Trikala High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Lykoudis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u350	Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is of greater importance today to see how we can promote matters and bring about a result on the PSE and less on political speeches. It's a well-known precedent. They don't need much. We all know what happened. First of all, the government's effort has been made, within the undeniably necessary framework of the regulation of the broadcasting field, to develop not only regulated broadcasting landscapes but also a controlled political landscape. Secondly, there has been a perfectly normal dissident on the part of the opposition to this effort, as has the appeals of the parties to the Council of State and the decisions of the Council of State on this matter. Although - not to forget this - the crucial reasoning of the Council of State has not yet been made public, it is certain that the declaration of unconstitutionality, as regards the assignment of ERC powers to the executive and the cancellation of the tender, is taking place many aspects and concrete developments, visible. The law was considered to be unconstitutional only in respect of the part by which the constitutionally guaranteed responsibilities of the PSE were transferred to the executive, that is to say, exclusively to the issue of licensing. I, however, believe that only the declaration of this unconstitutionality is explained by the fact that it was sufficient to bring about the annulment of the contested acts. Therefore, the Council of State did not have to proceed with the examination of the remaining reasons for annulment for the limited number of four authorisations. That's how I appreciate it. I don't know the decision. I think that was the reasoning of the Council of State. We are going through after the decision of the Council of State in the new phase characterised by the loss of political planning by the government. I will not deal with Mr. Polydora's nomination. In this regard, the rejection of the government's choices is extremely easy. It can create positive impressions if someone criticises this issue, but it does not have to be, because they have changed a lot these days and we should not just stick to these findings and critical wordings. At the Conference of Presidents we agreed and voted in favour of the proposal for the PSE by the President of Parliament in the final composition proposed, because we wanted to be consistent first, with what we said at the postponed election of the PSE, at the time of the examination of constitutionality by the Council of State, that we would respond to our constitutional obligation to elect the PSE, regardless of the content of the decision of the Council of State. Secondly, precisely why the election of the PSE is a constitutional check and a constitutional obligation. Thirdly, because there has been a clear and three-time assurance from the President of the Parliament that there will be a restoration of the constitutional order and a return to the ERR of its misappropriated competence to shape the broadcasting landscape. So we have waited today for the government to make it clear firstly that the provision in question is abolished and not simply suspended, and secondly, that the future number of channels cannot be formulated without the agreement of the National Broadcasting Council necessarily. In the Minister's amendment, the second point on the assent of the PSE goes through and we consider this to be a positive development. But, Minister, it is impossible to understand why, at first point, you are insisting on a suspension of the order and its abolition. It has even given birth to legal disputes - and you know it - about its correctness. But it's not about that. In addition to the legal divisions, what new man will not unintentionally draw the conclusion that from you and the government the message is that the suspension seeks to give the notion of temporaryity to the development of the matter rather than the definitive abolition of the provision in question? Minister, change the suspension. Go on to abolish, so that there can be the necessary consensus on the subject you are seeking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u351	The President of Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Voutsis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u352	Ladies and gentlemen, we have had the great opportunity after many years, after many decisions by the Council of State, following many demonstrations of uncertainty or retreat to the interests of the political class and parties that were in the governance of the place, to get into a rapid settlement of the broadcasting landscape in the face of the digital era. This opportunity must not be lost. In some respects, a matter of political defeat has been raised. I did not hear tones get up very much, especially from Mr Venizelos' point of view. Really? Was there a denial of what account? What about the fact that there has been a patent arrangement, an obligation of the political system on surcharges, an obligation of prime ministers, governments and ministers, not to go ahead with legalisation, the legal licensing regime? Now, within a year, within a few months, with the differences of our evenings, but which are on issues such as how many permits, how much the price, the acceleration that has been made by the present government to go to a settlement of this landscape and possibly have a cost from this confrontation - because it is controversy and with interests, to be honest - is called a denial of account and relentless defeat? Whose and whom can one say that? Is it defeated that politics ceases to be hostage, ungrateful and subjugated? The way we find him, and I think we'll find him on Monday. And we must speed up the process which will result in public interest in terms of moral and institutional interests, but also in the economic dimension. Because it is not just the economic dimension, and I think it has been set on all sides. So, to be clear, we could, as I speak in the plural, because I was a member of this government in the first phase since last year, that government could have compromised - we can speak openly, they hear us - as they have been compromised, listened, wanting and not, ministers, prime ministers, political forces for so many years. It could have easily compromised in the face of an extremely difficult course in the country, as we have external, internal conflicts, conflicts, the debt issue, the issue of negotiation, the issue of country's suffocation. Who would have told us what of this civilian staff who now moves the finger or some of them if we had compromised? What do I mean? I'll be very clean. If with some of the people who have the channels - or even all of them, I do not know what - we have done these informal or less informal agreements to support our policy and support the government in these difficult years. Comparison? I don't know. We don't know how to play these games, we don't know how to do it. Since he didn't attempt, I can't get into creepy details. But it could have been followed. I think it is an important step for the whole political system to be taken that all political forces are now represented in all the political forces and have leaked to them, that is, in the past few months, on the occasion of our confrontation with the way in which the competition took place, and so on, they have declared to everyone, to the interests and to the other powers, constitutionally guaranteed, that no competition was needed for many years, we have been making self-criticism. It sounded from all sides. That's a weapon for all of us. In my opinion, we must be proud that a procedure has been followed that brought this issue to the table and that will be resolved in the direction of all those who emit to pay and all those who emit to be controlled in all respects - institutional, economic, operational - in terms of terms, from the point of view of workers. This is a very important cut that needs to be done. It sounded self-evident here - it was not a few months ago - that the Constitution requires that a majority of 4/5 be made. It is an obligation, it is a constitutional political problem - I am very careful about my words, I said it publicly at the meeting of the Conference of Presidents - that some powers for twelve months and while there have been no substantial disagreements on proposed persons, they have not helped to have an PSE. If you see the founding law of the National Broadcasting Council, you will find that it has nothing to do with everything else we are discussing. There must be either, or else, for democracy to function, for it to function, for it to be controlled, for it to be regulated annually, for it to be established that workers' contracts and, above all, for what our children are emiting, for it to be a programme which is otherwise or otherwise. That's what the Constitution says. Is that what the government ruined? I didn't hear it from anyone. But that was an obligation. The fact that this work cannot be done for eleven months now makes the forces which have not been afflicted, in front of the Greek people, accountable to the Greek people. Because, I repeat, its existence - and I would like someone to oppose it later - is entirely independent of the controversy, the conflict that the Minister puts on, about how many licences, about how much money, about the competitive process. All of this could exist, not as self-evident issues, as there are issues of objections and sects, but operating on a National Broadcasting Council. It would be very easy to make this thing happen. We must therefore be clear, we must go to a National Broadcasting Council immediately. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] The two amendments that came from the Minister were made. For one thing, nothing has been heard, tactics have been heard as to whether the 'consent' is for the whole article and not just for the number of licences, but also for the rest. The Minister may, by using the dialogue, place himself on this. I think it's self-evident. It's a part of the debate today. For the other amendment, in relation to'repeal' and'suspension', let me tell you that a false dilemma has been created to hide from some aspects, from a few aspects, things. I do not mean by the parties I honour their position the other day, which has reached a majority of sixteen to three - who, either way, do not participate in the vote - and therefore a large majority has already been formed for the proposed composition. I honor their attitude. I also honour the attitude of those who have not yet come to have a broad consensus. And I expect, through clarification of the political issue today, that we can have a wide-ranging solution on Monday. But a clue was created, about, symbolic: Suspension, says, or dismantling? Whose parole thing? Excuse me! This article is abolished. This is abolished, because it says in it it is for the first application, which was made and had the luck of it, in relation to the competition. I mean legal luck, because from there on the messages of each process are multiple and some of them remain and form a conscience in the world. However, I say that he has had his luck and therefore there is no question of a second, third and fourth application. The law itself predicted that it was for that moment, that is, for the first application. It's dismantled. For the sake of sound, legal, predictions, interests and others, the concept of suspension until the decision has been published, which is reasonable. This whole debate could have taken place, since the decision would have been published. It'd be better. Today a House is presented, let me tell you, where we are discussing and legislating on the leakage of journalistic information. We are not honoured, but when it is taken that the decision after a, two months, at least, will be published, we are all aware that the major political issue that has arisen should in a way come to the surface, be discussed and incited. So, in this sense, these two central issues that come from the Council of State itself, but they also came from political forces that have their doubts - it says: 'You are not as libertarian as we were twenty-seven years ago, so we are questioning you will do something about it in a month', I say so to relax a little - but to accept it, we accept it all, and these amendments are made. There's no more fig sheet. Let me say that we have to move forward, we have to move on with the signal given both to the interests and to society that the political system will move on from reasonable subjection to business interests and from logic that we ourselves are pushing judges to decide on politics. Fortunately, there are no concepts of a 'clean hands' strategy as they existed in Italy. Don't be undernourished, don't be sawn as we all sit up, all the parties, the whole political system. The notion was. The responsibilities and decisions will be taken by us, fully hearing what the judiciary says, seeing and fully aware of what they say and what they are confronted with and what the interests have. And of course, there will be a harmonious cooperation with the National Broadcasting Council. And I close with this, Mr President, and thank you for the time you gave me: the Minister, Nikos Papapas, was misunderstood because in interviews of yesterday and today he said: 'My opinion, however, I insist on four'. I am saying here and I insist that there should be three - I say this to have a debate like this - because they so much said all the document that I had presented to you in 2008 at the BSE conference which was held and are the recommendations of the gentlemen who are now in charge of the Canal Association of Owners. This, in the sense of no Florence, no digital spectrum. And obviously the digital range fits more, it's obvious, but it's about whether we're gonna push. Finally, it may be more, indeed, to have a debate, a controversy, to consult the PSE - and not only to give an opinion, but also to have the final decision as is clear from what is coming - but the parties, the Ministry, we as individuals in the public debate, have an opinion. In other words, I have heard a lady from the National Broadcasting Council who said to be twelve, sixteen. Well, the fifteen of them, the lot of them, they're led to the complexion of law-making. Because they cannot live with the 150 million pie advertising, if they want to have four hundred workers, if they want not to have a galley. And now I am heard by the workers with whom we spoke under pressure and tension - because that is why we must speak, when the other person feels that he is going to be unemployed - and we fully understood them when what was said to be "black" on channels, etc. To hear that they cannot live canals of ten, 12, sixteen in Greece. And every responsible political power, instead of saying the incredible and abstract position, 'these will be judged by the market', that is to say, closing the eyes, being one and three hundred people, making workers redundant and being at a lower level the programme that they will give, is an opportunity, as it has been done, including the government's backing elements, so it is a great opportunity for all of us to provide solutions in the medium term in favour of the interests of information, pluralism and the workers and to leave the dilemmas and to leave the political system from hostage to the canals.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u353	My colleague, Mrs Zoe Lebanese from SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u354	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years the news has dealt largely with a public good and the way it is granted for use and exploited by the Greek state. The reason for the television licenses and Law No.4339/2015 or the ‘Pappa Law’, as so-called. This law, including Article 2A, whose suspension we are debating today, was passed by the Greek Parliament, in order finally to lay down rules in the broadcasting landscape, to pay for the license for those wishing to operate business by making profits, by exploiting public assets. All this time we have been living surreal scenes that have been starring for those rituals who have kept television stations and an anti-political array with prominent party representatives who have enjoyed their systematic and unlimited view on television screens all these years. The more a politician appeared at the private television stations, the greater the attack on this law. The whole public debate reveals the real intentions and real interests of people and political bodies responsible for the present situation in the country. Civicism and even its current president in previous years had the power both of him and of the whole of his family for the most personal promotion than SYRIZA and the KKE had since 2010. What is his request true? Do not the Minister responsible decide the number of television licences, but the National Television Council, which is not on its own responsibility. Do not buy the State a price for the exploitation of a public good, for all the licensees to be granted, for no channels to be closed, and for strong support to be given to the closure of public service broadcasting. It accuses the current government of trying to establish client relationships with the argument that it conducted a tender for the award of a public good. He even refuses to consent to the PSE recommendation today, but argues that this is all he has to decide. Reality is clear around the world. The opposition does not want to lose, or pay, the television stations owners with whom they coexisted over the past few years. It is willing to accept any measure which affects the overwhelming majority of the Greek people, such as the dissolution of labour relations, but not to accept that the powerful of this place and the landscape lose at all, I would say. It cannot be tolerated that there is a government that requires that the havings pay, which requires that all those who before the crisis did gold jobs with all governments be paid for. The Constitution and judicial decisions, which have not yet been made public, are today invoked, in order to see the rationale for perpetuating the free use of public good, a party which considers that health and education are goods for which the people have to pay, which considers work to be a polite concession and thanks to employers to workers, who in practice challenges the state's obligation to provide pensions, which it considers to defend democracy in the interests of competition for television licences. We have a different perception. We insist that the public should have the highest possible revenue from the granting of television licences. We insist that the law as a whole serves the public benefit, finally brings significant public revenue to the state in the most difficult economic situation and we have a duty to insist on the collection of this revenue and the regulation of the broadcasting area. The S.H.E.'s decision may be a political decision. The New Democracy's refusal to set up the PSE is a provocative one. No matter how hard you're trying, no matter how hard you and your friends fight, the government has the responsibility and the obligation to defend the public interest. It has an obligation to ask for a price for those who exploit public property and provide profits. It has the right and the obligation to proceed without compromises and disagreements with those of you who have traditionally not touched them. The relationship between inter- and co-existence, economic and political interests of a small oligarchy is over. Now the interests of the people, the country, pluralism, democracy and, above all, culture are ahead of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u355	Thank you. Mr Koumoutsakos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u356	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today, with an uncovered anxiety, the government is trying to manage its massive political, legal and moral defeat in the field of the regulation of the broadcasting landscape. But, it is trying to do so not with modesty and humility, not with a sense of defeat that has been suffered, but is coming here with arrogance and provocativeness, attacking the Opposition. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, while today it is being played and heard by a eulogy of your initiative, which everyone hears inside and outside, you imagine that what it sounds is not a recivim but a Wagner Valley, and you are attacking the Civic Opposition on the deadlock in which you put yourself. Look, the counterattacks of despair make their defeat debacle. Watch out for that. Ladies and gentlemen, the question of the regulation of the broadcasting landscape is primarily and above all a major issue of democracy, since it is inextricably linked to unrestricted, unregulated information, with pluralism. And that in democracy is not valued by money. Freedom of information has no honor. That was the position of the New Democracy from the outset. Our only concern, our only objective, was to ensure by this regulation free information and pluralism in the context of the functioning of democracy. On the contrary, what did we see on the other side? Instructions, grey manipulations, institutional acrobatics, institutional aberrations, climaxing the influence on justice by persecuting judges through the press that supports you firmly. We saw, as a climax, the attack on the country's Supreme Court, immediately after the decision of the Council of State, the Government's representative, between beams and anger. All this, which we have been living for three months now, confirmed that the only objective, the only objective of the government, was the manipulation and control of the broadcasting landscape. How? Three ways. To marginalize or almost dismantle the National Broadcasting Council, the absolute domination of a member of the Government, the Minister of 'Canalarch', and the limited, arbitraryly defined number of channels. All of this has a smell of authoritarian and oligarchy. That was the intention. And then what? Then came the decision of the Council of State and the massive defeat of your main emblematic policy, all over the past few months. And then what does the government do? After he has sworn out of anger about this decision, after attacking justice in an unprecedented way for the post-population period, after having conducted childish manipulations and initiatives allegedly to establish and reconstitute the National Broadcasting Council - the one he had effectively abolished - he today brings two amendments. Two amendments which, in fact, ignore everything that has been done so far. That's why we're talking about arrogance and courage. It's like we turned the clock a week ago. So it restores the situation - it actually does - where it was. And what's he after? And controlled National Broadcasting Council and - if not now, from the back door - the core of the basic logic of the Pappa law. As you can see, this will not be accepted by the Civic Opposition. It is not going to be accepted by the New Democracy. And because many will rush to say that we are making counterproductive and mistrustful opposition, to see what the position of the New Democracy is. I can tell you, therefore, that our position has four axes: more democracy, more licences, more channels, more workers and, finally, more money.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u357	No more money.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u358	Since there are more channels, there are more workers and more money. [[Noise in the Chamber]] I see that's what you're worried about. I repeat: more democracy, more licences, more channels, more workers, more money. We have also tabled a proposal for this. If that's not a constructive opposition...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u359	What draft law?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u360	Mr President, please, I'll be done in a minute. And we have also tabled a proposal for this, and I can tell you that we did not have to do so. Why are traditional oppositions doing what? Review from morning to night, without any suggestion. And we tabled a proposal and proposed a person for President of the National Broadcasting Council who is supremely judiciary, completely transparent, broad acceptance and prestige. And we did it to show and show you how serious we mean the whole thing. We gave a facial model and a model of National Broadcasting Council through Mr. Koutromanos's face. So you have your way out. You don't want to hear it. But I repeat it, codes. We must start at zero, ladies and gentlemen. Only the profound change of the Pappa law will unlock the discussion about the composition...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u361	Let's go back twenty-seven years, I mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u362	I'll answer you for that. Only profound change unlocks the debate and the composition of the National Broadcasting Council. First the institutions and then the faces. We're not gonna put that car in before the horse. We therefore need to have a sound legal basis, which confirms the decisive role of the National Broadcasting Council and the free use of the entire range of digital spectrum. You have a chance. Now listen to the voice of reason. Listen to the voice of responsibility. Listen to the voice of democracy. Don't listen to triumphs where your defeats are playing. And because I've heard this for the twenty-seven years. We all have to say that the previous period and the previous regime should have been regulated. The issue, ladies and gentlemen, is not a forensic debate here in this House. It's not a historical conversation. The policy of responsibility and those who have a responsibility regulate the future now and the future must do so in a way that corrects old pathogens and not increase them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u363	Thank you, Mr. Kumucako. My colleague, George Amyras, from the river, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u364	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, from this step on February 10, 2015, Stavros Theodorakis in his first address to Parliament had turned to Mr. Tsipras and said to him: "Get the bill on television licences now, soon, and we will support you, but be a transparent, fair and clear bill, to put a class on things". This is, in practice, a political culture that, if you had embraced it, especially you of the government, when Theodorakis told you in February 2015, we would not be here today to discuss two years after whether we have or have not had a competition, whether we have or have no way of giving television licenses. So what did you bring us? You brought us Law No.4339, a Pappa law now, as enrolled in collective memory and subconscious and consciousness. With this law, Mr Pappa, you have reserved yourself, the government for a minister, the Minister for Television - I will say - how much channels they would be allowed to buy and with how much money. At first...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u365	Wasn't it in the previous laws?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u366	Poor thing that was like this in previous laws. But here you have changed it, you have not come to repeat it in the same and worst way, Minister. I told you, then, at the meeting of the Committee on Production and Trade on 21 October 2015, the following. Let us find it in the Minutes too: 'Mr Minister, it cannot be done, it cannot be done, it is not possible for you, a man' - leave the face, I am referring to the Minister concerned every time - 'to decide on such important matters'. You replied to me: 'Hey, I do not decide for much'. At that very moment, Mr Papapas, in your Chamber 223 with this phrase "e, I do not decide for many" you committed yourself, without knowing and without all the rest of us seeing it as a whole, a policy of excitement and at the very moment you said "e, I do not decide for many", that is, "I will decide on how much channels will be granted licences and how much money you would give", you had specified the end of your law. What did we see next? We have seen you, the government, swornly to launch for the competition that has unfortunately proved to be an opperette competition. We saw you then bring an amendment which, thanks to the intervention of the President of Parliament, you took it back - at night, you brought it - for the'surprise death' of the channels with the five days of deadline. In fact, you had also predicted the imprisonment of the offenders of that law. So you were ready to mess with the complexion, but on what foundations? On an anti-constitutional foundation. When the Council of State took over the baton and the bells of unconstitutionalism broke windows and ear drums, the judges naturally saved the value of democracy. The judges put hazelnuts in the ambition of the government and of some of the Ministers and the judges took the 'game' because that is how you understood it - the licensing of channels from your hands and re-established it on other bases, on the basis of transparency and constitutionality rules. Then begins your great government's political slap: Lyssaly attack on justice. We all remember the style of the Government representative when he put children of children and nursery stations as a shield in front of the legal construction of Law 4339 that he had just swallowed. Immediately after you told us in those days: "Monday I bring new law so that we can finish with the complication." Then that law became a bridge law. Disappeared, too. You are also saying that the unimportant "free died" - with you, Mr Minister - "the profession of the canalarch will not be closed", when you have stylized your feet - and that is what you are doing - for the only four permits. Isn't it a closed profession for the four canals?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u367	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u368	Isn't it closed while the ten canals are closed?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u369	Enclosed is about the possibilities...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u370	I'll see you, Minister. Reliability zero! Instead of bringing order, you caused greater chaos in chaos. One would say that this could not be done and yet you did it. And now? Now you are hiding as government behind the amendment and words. Behind the words who hides? Withdrawal or dismantling? You say: 'Let's give the money back to the canals?' I ask you, Mr. Pappa: what did you sell the canals to keep their money? Air cut off? 'Airplanets' means the canalarchs, the minister of the air? Oh, no. You either gave permissions or did not grant authorisations. So whether the private, the successful tenderers raise claims against the public, that is something that is answered by a phrase: A pity you have soaked up. What are the others to blame for paying your own mistakes, Mr. Pappa? And what we didn't see and what we didn't hear. Really, where is Mrs Maria Louisa Stasi, your SYRIZA partner, the Florence Institute, to come to Greek society, to public spheres and defend the four licenses, the capacity of the spectrum? I, of course, agree to some extent with regard to the number of licences, but as a political viewpoint, with what Mr Voutsis said. Yes, it cannot be the market itself that defines everything, especially when it comes to pluralism, democracy and the use of public frequencies. But it can't be the wallet, Mr. Pappa, as you have just set it, the only criterion for getting an empty. Where are the quality criteria? How, then, will the complexity be dealt with?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u371	Some articles in the bill you voted for.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u372	How will the complication be dealt with? With goggles? With pastures? Tell me. With "guns" in the contests? With zero bids? That's how the complication is handled? The complexion of the intertwined, as a complication! I'm afraid so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u373	Mr. Amyras, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u374	Wait a minute, Mr. President. Recently, Minister, we saw Mr offshore in Cyprus, Mr Artemis Artemiou going into the Maximos Mansion. And in answer to the question, "What was the fox doing in the bazaar?" Mr. Artemio said that he was at the Maximos Mansion because he was costing a serious investment proposal from foreigners. Tell me you: Would you go to any Prime Minister's office with a jeans and a bag of supermarket? But are we serious? So I present the front page of the "FOOT TYPE", to see how the business is being closed at the Maximos Mansion. Supermarket bag and jeans! [[At this point, the Member, George Amyras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And there, where we saw everything...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u375	What's the complaint?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u376	Did you go to buy or sell beans, after all, ladies? Will you tell me? One sells, the other buys. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u377	Mr. Amyras, let us conclude, please, because you are also concerned.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u378	I shall conclude, Mr President. I come to the point of the PSE and the guarantee that Mr Voutsis, as the third state agent, raised in order to give some bridges of consensus towards the other parties. We, the Potami, but also the Democratic Partnership, good faith, said that we were initially accepting the President's guarantee, but we will judge it the next day in plenary today with the legislative texts that you will eventually bring us. I shall refer to both amendments, and I shall end, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u379	But we're in the nine minutes, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u380	I know, Mr President, but it is so important.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u381	But take care of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u382	Mr. President, may I, please? We at Potami we suggested Mr.Michalis Stadopoulos, a approved legal, dean, a man who said "no" to interests that he never succumbed to, who, yet we are a smaller party and understand that the paths of consensus must be wide. We would not say 'no' to the New Democracy proposal for Mr Athanasios Koutromanos, which we also consider to be an excellent option. You, too, open up your papers and tell us. If you want ERR fast, here all in the light. However, we have now arrived with the 'freezers' and the 'hards' of a type of suspension, and we have now arrived, ladies and gentlemen. You think about it? It says one amendment 'yes, the PSE needs to give us its assent' and the other amendment says 'but the regulations relating to the number of licences and the issue are suspended'. In other words, one amendment suspends the other! So the river - and I am ending this, Mr President - says and emphasises that it is absolutely specific, without extensions, for the PSE. An open licensing procedure of up to ten television stations, with terms and conditions that the PSE will set. Public suppliers and contractors will not be able to take the channel, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u383	It's the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u384	I'm telling you the river proposal. What was Mr. Kallagris? Oh, I'm sorry. He was a shepherd! Mr. Kalogeris had pastures! He wasn't a contractor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u385	Mr Amyras, please, because my colleagues are not kept under the table.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u386	In twenty seconds, Mr President, I shall end and thank you very much for your understanding. Each licensed shall give EUR 10 million a year as the end of the use of frequency, and each year a basic audit of the economic and qualitative criteria will be carried out. That's what we have to tell you and we'll come back. "Law Pappa" has fainted. Let's all bury him with a closed nose and move on to the next day! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u387	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague Mr. Barkas from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u388	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are, in my view, in a political and procedural vacuum, because what is being said and heard here today, as far as the two amendments of the Minister are concerned, are self-evident from the next position of the same people. And, unfortunately, what Protestant Opposition is doing is defending twenty-seven years of lawlessness by placing its Members on this amendment in this particular procedure. Mr Georgiadis, the Vice-President of the New Democracy, regrettably from the Step here in Parliament lied. What did he say? He said that the New Democracy is voting independently, but refuses to vote for the comparison. The question arises as follows: will the New Democracy be used for any law that the government will bring to the vote in this House to say that to vote the 'Pappa Law' will be withdrawn or the PSE will not be formed, or will it be formed with the view of the New Democracy? So, in any case, will it blackmail the government for its vote or not with the creation of the PSE? Does the New Democracy not realize that it is a constitutional obligation to help set up the National Broadcasting Council? Also, the S.A. has decisions that it finds illegal the extension of the mandate of the National Broadcasting Council and for that reason those fines have been placed on channels in the previous period by the Council have been deemed illegal and are not invoked, precisely because there is this decision of the S.H.E. That is to say, on the one hand, they are defending and saying that a decision will be cleared up. To agree on something - I am not a legal person - that this latest decision by the Skopje is not cleaned up, written, and we do not know what has been considered unconstitutional. We're pictured by press reports. There are serious things here in the Chamber of Parliament, and even people who have an institutional role in Civic Opposition, and the Members of the New Democracy must respond. It was said to be: "Pappy head of the judiciary." But can these things be heard by the Qualified Opposition, when they know that the targeting of these judiciaries, sites and newspapers, which are politically not SYRIZA, may be heard? Why are you hiding that? Why don't we just have the conversation? Obviously, we're targeting. In this sense, such statements against the Minister who, for the first time in twenty-seven years, decided courageously to put an end to the lawlessness which you administer, it is clear that they are not helping anywhere. Since there is little time available to us, I have to make some assumptions about what is being heard. The new Republic has tabled a proposal which, according to Mr Kumucaco, says'more democracy, more licences, more channels, more employees, more money, etc.' and also proposes the President of the EPP. We shall say this: New Democracy makes a reasonable leap. As he proposes, the PSE President does not ask for the 'Pappa Law' to be abolished. What if we vote your president on Monday? Will you come back and say "We have voted for him, now abolish the "Pappa Law"? Is that how we're going to make politics? Are you two intertwining? What exactly is going on here? Is there not a certain majority, as was described at the last meeting in the Conference of Presidents, formed? Does the New Democracy not understand its constitutional role in this process? I shall conclude, Mr President, with this. There will be more money with more permits. How? The market, which you defend, and which we have brought you to the cube, because we have had a competition, and we have defended neoliberalism with this competition, against our worthy and political principles, will bring more money. How? So, what is the price these gentlemen would have to pay for the twenty-seven years of channel lawlessness? How much money would you put? Let's see, let's make a case, a contest. How much money would you put them in? One, two? For workers who worked in the media who closed cashews, such as the newspaper "ELEVELOTYPIA", "AFTERMINATION" and channels such as "ALTER", crocodile tears for these people you never spilled. Also, to end the issue of industrial relations, the law says specific things. It says: four hundred workers with collective agreements. I'll tell you how I experienced it as a journalist. People are currently working in the media, who are being paid 200 euros. Are you claiming this employment relationship? This employment relationship you want for these people? Is that what you want to achieve? You say they work four thousand media workers on the channels. Yes, sir. How many people have a collective contract of employment? Answer these basics. How many of them, not four thousand, have a signed employment relationship with the employer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u389	We're done, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u390	I shall conclude, Mr President. The New Democracy in the proposal, which it has tabled, has replicated nine main provisions of the TV licence law, the one it accuses. The only thing he disagrees about is two key things for us, which, in my view, have something to do with political claim. Firstly, in the fact that people will work, we will defend the work of people, which you do not want, and secondly, in the fact that there will be a competition. This lawlessness can no longer be continued in the country, which you have defended for so many years! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u391	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how this House organises and operates, thirty students and two educational escorts from the 7th Trikala High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Dimitris Sevastakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u392	Thank you very much, Mr President. The debate is taking place in a very interesting landscape. I'll find some points that make the text. Let's say law and social desire, which Mr. Venizelos did when he commented on the statements made by the President of the S.H.E. Another interesting point is that institutional inertia is due to problems of business credibility and 'from where you were,' as Mr Javaras said on radio. I mean, all these years there's been no regulation of the landscape, because they've been stuck in business credibility problems. Another interesting point is the institutional humiliation, which Mr Voridis said, in a different way, in another language, has implied, perhaps other colleagues, a kind of institutional humiliation because he dared to have a regulatory attempt. Another interesting point is that Mr Rousopoulos today claimed that most of his law was assimilated by "Pappa Law". He even said he's assimilated a 85%. He even suggested keeping his own law and changing a point - the change of proportion to digital - and we have a full regulatory stability. We end up in a "speak", "repent", "your political grave". I do not know whether this is a field of consensus or a field of political controversy. It is right, I think, that Mr Denkias, who precisely because the right reason for the law does not dominate, proposes that we go to self-science or, in any case, to a kind of existential self-determination. However, I would like to ask a question, without being a legal person, which seems to me extremely consistent: How much is institutionally valid to inactivate the election of the PSE, why do you not agree with a law? How good is that? How critical and ruthless way of institutional defence is? It seems to me that an anti-constitutional trick, not allowing election - I insist that it is an election - of the PSE cannot be a correction tool. In this context, I think that the very architecture of the law - part of which we are discussing today, on the basis of the two amendments - has tried with a landscape of improvisation and self-regulation to create a regulatory continuity. In other words, he tried to organise, institutionalize, regulate. This regulation also wanted many of the entrepreneurs involved. For example, they considered it to be unfair competition when you have a loan backing someone against someone else's non-financial support, this landscape of lawlessness, that is, that we have seen. The landscape of lawlessness is not just a moral objection. It is expressed both in the quality of the programme and in its aesthetics and in the quality of industrial relations and in the quality of the cultural, cultural and media speech. We have had a completely 'legal' PSE for many years. What was his intervention in quality, aesthetics, speech emissions, in thinking emissions, in the retaining cultural perception of the emitted reason? I think she was too poor, weak, fragile. I am driving from now on that, without a stable framework of agreement, with convictions and exchanges - and I say this not only because I have a personal view of the compositions in the political system, it is my personal education - that is to say, trying to compose, combine languages with politics and produce what our country needs, it will not be able to operate in a firm manner, it will not be able to function productively in the new landscape that is being shaped. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I think we've made a big shift. From the scope of considering self-regulation as self-regulatory, we have gone through a field where regulation is requested. This is a great shift, it is a great political shift. Waiting on Monday for the election of the members of the National Broadcasting Council to move on to the next step - and the people proposed by all parties are very serious - I will not make exceptions - I would like to remind some of my fellow Members: consensus entails basic aesthetic and elementary codes of conduct. For me, for my own lawsuit, the altar is not part of political civilization. In this sense, I am absolutely unequivocal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u393	Thank you. Mr Ioannis Rabbit has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u394	Thank you, Mr President. We have been following a debate and a sketch, which has been taking place for a very long time, on the subject of television licences. If we were to see this in the resolution of the bills that come, about the memorials or anything else, we would really be happy, that is, if we could see an Opposition there too. On the contrary, when the bills come from abroad to vote for the Greek Parliament, you are all voting at very short intervals. In two days' time, the whole of our country has been sold off, and there we are not listening to these crowns. But for the PSE, which has to do with channels and television licences and is of great interest to you - because that is where you are advertising, you are sounding through and there is the propaganda that is being done in favour of anyone who is in power - you are fighting a very great battle, because you are really interested. However, neither democracy nor the institutions nor the rules are of fundamental importance to you. This is very simple and we will tell you with specific examples of the particular issue that we are discussing. In the PSE, in accordance with the laws and rules which exist, the third political force should be represented. But the Golden Dawn, unfortunately, for you, is the third political force and is not represented. On the contrary, the fourth and fifth political powers are represented. So we leave out the republics and regulations that you want to implement. Also, at the Conference of Presidents which we are debating here that it will decide in 4/5 and discuss all these things, it is really a magical picture of how it becomes the third political force to have a representative and the fourth to have two, the fifth to have two and the sixth to have two. These are probably not democratic, but they are not very much of a concern to you. All you have to do is do your job. We hear the current Minister say that for twenty-seven years there have been television stations which have been operating, in fact, illegally and doing what they wanted. We will agree on this, Minister. But since you are a government now, why do you really not find a way to get from these big-timers, who, for twenty-seven years, have actually been stealing the Greek people and the Greek public, the corresponding price? Let's see what those people who have been paying for twenty-seven years have worked, who have earned too much, who have shaped consciences. Let's see what they have to pay, fairly, legally and beautifully. So you cannot accuse them of stealing for twenty-seven years, but now that you are not able to tell them to render the stolen ones. So you're gonna have to look at this. It also makes me a real impression how it is possible for you today to talk about the PSE and say that you want legal and rules to apply. This debate on the PSE, however, takes place after the previous attempt you have made. Some time ago you could do this, bring in a proposal for the PSE, have voted for all the parties and continue this process. But then you wanted - and we told you in the discussions that were going on - to get everything on you as Minister. We don't know if you had good or bad intentions. That's what the course will show. The point is, however, that it is not possible for a minister, not for television licences, nor for anything the government is used to do, to decide for himself what to do. That is unacceptable. And you'll pay for that and of course you'll pay it with all that process. Also, after discussing the need for democracy and pluralism, we would like to stand and talk about public television, about ERT, the way you have re-established it. Where is the democracy and pluralism in the ERT? Where is the third political force, to be called and to say its views? With what right do four hundred thousand Greek citizens have no right to listen to those who vote? Good or bad for your own data, some people vote for us. Why shouldn't they be heard? And because we hear it said many times that golden people don't have an opinion, they don't have any ideas, they don't have any positions, how much easier would it be for all of you in the constitutional arch to invite us and expose us to such a debate? You don't mind that. You mind, because you know very well that if they come down to a public debate, either our Chief - and call him whenever you like - or any members and MPs of the Golden Dawn will be in trouble. There will be a problem for all of you of the constitutional arch, because too much of the Greek people will be identified with our views and that is what concerns you. That's why you want to humiliate us. That's why you don't want to call us anywhere. Here, then, is the glorious field, ERT is calling from now on to the extent permitted - we are not asking for any favors or anything - the representatives of the Golden Dawn. If you dare, do it. Come to us and see what we will say, what you say and what the number of Greeks that support us is. I would also like to focus on some of the speeches made by the President of Parliament, Mr Voutsis, a few minutes ago. It has been mentioned that media workers should not be workers of EUR 300. Yeah, he's right about that. But for the rest of the workers, who are not journalists, who are not in the channels and who perhaps take less than EUR 300 or too many are unemployed, is there nothing? That's where we're gonna take care of it? On the issue of licences - which we say must be four, three or six or whatever - the following question will be asked here: if that is the case, a specific number of licences must be granted, then a certain number of pavilions must also be given. How can four pavilions run in a neighborhood when this neighborhood only tolerates one pavilion? But we said that there is a particular sensitivity here, because the media plays a lot of interests. To conclude by saying that when bills are passed at the expense of the Greek people, then there is no substantial opposition - you are voting together - and the channels - the television stations - which are now saying that they must be properly and fair - they are the ones that are smiling the vote on these laws, because they are also in agreement with the sale. So here it is, if you want to change it, if you want to see it. However, we have not seen anything since the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u395	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague has the floor from the Independent Greeks, Mr Thanasis Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u396	Thank you, Mr President. At the Conference of Presidents, as everyone who was inside knows, we started somewhere at 17.00 hours and went by 22.00 hours, i.e. it lasted five hours. For the first time I felt a great surprise because I saw the block of the parties to the democratic arch with PASOK and Potami breaking into a very important issue, such as the creation of the PSE. I have seen a dialectic attitude of the President of Parliament, who has not hesitated to change his first proposal, even the second one. In general, there was a climate of consensus. I will also say that I have seen a consensus from the four Members present in the New Democracy. I did not have any hesitation when I heard President Vangelis Meymarakis with very consensual reason to suggest that the PSE should be done, that this loose ends. I will insist a little unorthodox, and I would like to call on the Secretary-General of the ESM - he has a difficult name - Kalin Anev Janse, who was a procurer of what he was going to follow later. I believe that all Greeks are very important. He gave an interview with a French newspaper in which neither too much nor much does he propose a way - which we are so looking for - to circumvent the elections of the three, four states in their parliaments, in Germany, France, in the Netherlands and I do not remember which country. It is something that is accepted by this proposal. It is a proposal that variable interest rates are becoming stable - for a part of debt, not a whole, about 40 billion - by creating a 30-year-old bond. We'll get the old ones back - it doesn't make any sense - and we'll give the new ones. It is a proposal that really shows intention to ensure that short-term debt measures - which we very much want - go for the markets and accepts Mario Draghi, so that we can enter the QE. No one wrote anything. We saw it. The pluralism of the channels has silenced it. In the most official way, while listening to bi-brains that the insurance comes back, Diaselblum himself said there is no insurance, it is about solidarity and nothing else. Klaus Reggling himself, his chief secretary, has announced that the debt will enter the table in the way we have said and that, for me, it is the most important one at the moment, that is, the three steps: the second assessment, the short-term, the debt and the QE. Don't hide, the Greeks' tax ability - there are people stepping on - is zero at the moment. A large part of the Greeks - I have no hesitation to say - can't pay his debts. We are obliged quickly, very quickly, to do something, which means a lower tax, meaning a change in ENVA - I stress that - it means VAT lower, it means a correction to all levels of wages and pensions. With the fact that a large part of economists, who are neither the government nor SYRIZA nor the Independent Greeks, predict growth - I am not saying 2.7%, let it be 1.5% - 1.6% - these corrections will be made automatically. At this terrible moment, then, we are dealing over how many months with a constitutional vacuum. So the legislator has constitutionally made sure that the independent authorities, and in my opinion rightly so, want the 4/5. We're fighting while we've had our first-stage consent. I want to remind you of facts. Whoever looks at the bill submitted by the then Minister of State, Mr. Papapas, there was no 2A, there was an article 1 and gave all the jurisdiction to the PSE. Add it later, because three times it was canceled and then we saw that the line was changed. What was the government supposed to do, wait? At the same time we know that since 2010 the Supreme Court, the Council of State, has said that this twenty-seven-year-old situation is unconstitutional. I don't want to blame responsibilities right now. Shortly thereafter, a year and a half ago, the second part of the Council of State had said "major, you poorly pay frequency fees, 2% of the turnover" and the government gathered for the first time from that and more than 41 million. It is important, however, that this final case law means that this regime cannot continue, it is illegal. I really hear things, incredible excesses for compromises, for a new complication, for all of this. I would like to remind you here that it was 1993, when PASOK won the elections then. Minister of Justice was Mr. Kouvelakis and brought a bill back to the House at the time. Mr. Venizelos was the government representative. President of the Ice Bay was Vassilis Red. Not only was the entire bill considered unconstitutional. I don't want to put oil on fire right now and remind you what Venizelos himself was saying about the supreme judiciary. I would also like to remind you that shortly after he brought the law on the PSE, where eleven members became nine, five were appointed by the then government, the President of the ERT, in other words, the government itself. I close because I have heard Mr Venizelos use extremes today and I would recommend to him that I - a very new Member I do not have his experience, not even his laurels and his glory - lower tone. I would like to remind Mr Venizelo that he has the paternity of Article 86. If there is even one Member in this Chamber who does not want to know this article, which ensures the impunity of Ministers, to tell me. He is the same person who, when PROTON BANK's scandal had fluffed and was in the air, put 200 million - so he judged - on the pretext that the banking system must be stabilised. We all know that a third of PROTON BANK members are confiscated, so lower tones. It is important, too, to clarify a matter. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I need two more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u397	Keep going,
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u398	I would like to say this: Justice is the third pillar of the Parliamentary Republic. Whatever it is, whatever it is, we are obliged to respect it. One question arises: Should we apply its decisions? Yeah. Are we doing this? We're doing it. We expect to see the decision taken by the Council of State. I have an objection here. I don't understand why it can last for a month or two. It's something that's burning and it's going to have to be much faster, but we're leaving that. Do we have the right to judge her decisions? I believe that not only is there a right, but we also have a duty. After all, these judges themselves, when in the first instance a decision is wrong, they appeal and go to a second degree and so go to a third degree. They themselves, in other words, question the judges' decisions, because they are sometimes not right. We are not abolishing justice, we are not criticising the institutions of justice, but we have a right to criticise the decisions of justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u399	Ten minutes we don't get past it, Mr. Comrade, no way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u400	To conclude, I would like to refer to a poll that has scattered enthusiasm at the party of the respected officer of the opposition. It is ‘PUMBLIC ISSUE’. This company during the referendum in an intent vote with a possible vote of indiscreet vote gave 45.5% to 'yes' and 45% to 'no'. The result was 38.69% on 'yes' and 61.31% on 'no', a difference, that is, about twenty-four points and some companies then apologized. It is the same company that today gives new figures to the New Democracy - well does - and I will give her this survey, to have it, to see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u401	You're done, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u402	I have finished and thank you very much, Mr President, for the extension.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u403	Mr Nikolaos Dendias of the New Republic has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u404	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I shall begin by discussing the other amendments, not the amendments of the Pappa Act. With regard to Amendment No 738/16 tabled and supported by Minister Kontonis, the New Democracy is not a good one. The amendment is a delay and our relevant sector, Mrs Anna Karamanlis, also reflects on the non-constitutionality of this particular wording. In any case, however, we would like, if the Minister wanted this, that there had been a pre-consensual agreement with us, which did not happen. We are also vertically negative to Amendment No 739/14 by the Minister of Finance, Mr Tsakalotou, concerning an amendment to provisions of Law 4412/2016 on public procurement. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the Minister looking for here? It seeks the excess and its subsidiaries to be excluded from the public procurement provisions, which have recently been adopted relatively recently. Why? Is there any explanation for that? Tell us, let's understand it. From where and until where do we establish a single framework and then come and ask for exceptions themselves for this single framework? Is this done at the request of the lenders? Tell us and tell us where the lenders are proving their claim. Having asked for a united approach, not accepting many interpretations and serious legalisation, which means a uniform approach, how then come they themselves and ask for exceptions? But it does not seem to me that the lenders are asking for it. In any case, however, whether or not it is a very bad principle to introduce permanent exceptions. It leads to opacity at best and in other things much worse than that. I now come to the amendments by the Minister of State. Before going to the general, I will remain in the very text of the amendments, which we consider to be inadmissible. First of all, with regard to the suspension of Article 2A, this cannot stand up to any serious legal debate, you know that and you understand it. The excuse, which was provided informally, is that this is to prevent the creation of claims against the Greek State. That can't stand it. It cannot stand even in a seminar in the first year of law. If there is anything else hidden, I do not want to give any thoughts that he does not formulate. However, one thing is necessary for us here: the bravery accompanied by the simple word'repealing'. In any event, the decision of the Council of State will be published and the abolition will appear on a solemn basis. Let's go to the other amendment, which appeared today, which transforms the simple opinion of the National Broadcasting Council into an opinion on the number of television licences. I imagine that, for the Minister, as he says, this is a long retreat. It was done to reassure the opposition. I want to tell you this. Our disagreement, first of all, is much more fundamental, but let us begin with the Minister's thinking. Paragraph 4 of Article 2 of the Act does not only give the Minister the number of licences. It gives too many responsibilities. You want me to tell you? Gives the type of content, the type of target, the type of the thematic content in the case of a specific targeting programme, the starting price per auctioned licence. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Will you give me some more time, Mr President, please? All this is what the Minister keeps for himself. Assent in its own amendment passes only on the number of licences. So I'd say to him, it doesn't mean wickedness. Anyone here reading the text of the amended provision will understand that this is a simple evil. But, beyond that, ours, ladies and gentlemen, the institutional position is deeper than that. We are not satisfied with the agreement. We say from the outset of this debate - and that is what you must recognise us with absolute stability - that Article 15 assigns the National Television Council as a whole to this issue. It does not reserve a role for the Minister of State or for any other Minister. Are we in agreement with this, or are we not in agreement with this? The Minister cannot, with lasting retreats, grant some political ground at any time, trying to keep for himself powers which, in our view today, as the spectrum has shaped, do not reserve him the Constitution of the country, in its true current interpretation, because I know the logic of old laws, etc. The old error does not give rise to retrospectively right, ladies and gentlemen, ever. So please don't even tell us. I would also like to say something - I'm going to need a couple of minutes - and I'm going to finish this. There is a great effort - and here I must say that the President of Parliament has a role to play in this - by all parties or most parties to find a consensus on this issue. Because everyone recognises that this, although extremely important, is not the dominant issue at a time when the country and a large part of society have real existential anxiety. They're fighting for their existence. We cannot deal with the Greek public for sixteen months with this issue. So I was expecting the Minister after the rumours - you want rumours, but they are evidence of rumours, we all know - of the supreme court's decision to acquire a constitutional and political modesty. To realise that he has misled and misled both the government and Parliament and society in a 16-month conflict without essentially object. Instead, ladies and gentlemen, we have seen nothing like this. We saw a government in the first phase of retrospective attacks, and I must say - and I beg your pardon - in a vulgar way against Greek justice. I've never heard of such things in my life. I have never heard of any political factor in any matter, even in the great trials in 1989 and 1990 to be successful in this way against Greek justice. There was not a single apology in this respect, not against the judges who deserved it, but against the Greek society and the civilisation as it is and operates. The government did not think that it had to apologize. I am not talking about redundancies or resignations - that is their issue, their sensitivity and the Prime Minister - I am talking about the institutional dialogue of powers. In the institutional dialogue of powers, therefore, the current executive power of this government does not consider that it owes apologies to Greek justice and to Greek society in general. Instead, what we are seeing is constitutional suggestions towards Civic Opposition. What does the government say? "It is your duty" - it tells us - "to collide, because the Constitution, after giving four fifths, does not allow you not to collide." Ladies and gentlemen, let's talk about this. It could otherwise have been something that one could have had to talk about. But I ask you: Who is addressing us this constitutional premise? Who? First of all, the government, which, as an opposition, did not contribute to anything. We have contributed to the creation and staffing of four independent authorities. But the worst thing - and you will allow me to remind you - how did you win the elections, ladies and gentlemen? Or rather, how did you cause the election? I was told by Mr Tasoulus earlier that you have committed the greatest institutional blow, which you have in constitutional terms indicated to us now. You did not contribute to the election of the President of the Republic. The election of the President of the Republic is not a constitutional trick in creating electoral conditions. You, therefore, who have not made any use of an independent authority that you have thrown a government which has not allowed a President of the Republic to be elected, shall, after a ruling by the Supreme Court, make a constitutional recommendation to the Civilian Anti-Fraud. Are these things serious? Can anyone handle them? Can anyone talk on this basis? Ladies and gentlemen, there is no limit. It is called the 14-11 marginal majority, as if there were, in principle, marginal and non-limitial majority and the government could distinguish them. But secondly, do you really know how much that was? He wasn't 14-11. He was 14-8-3. The government had three. Who were the three? The three were in favour of postponement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u405	How do you know?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u406	How do I know? I read the same forms you read and some of them are yours. One is even called "HAY", if I am not deceived. That's how I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u407	Show it to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u408	Ladies and gentlemen, if you question them, because in a few days' time you will be published, you will see them in the decision, because your defence now, your last institutional defence, is 'how do you know them?' You are not telling me if you then are so interested in the accuracy of the text, why don't you expect this text to be published and you are in a hurry and you are adjusting now? If you so much fight for a fair return to the law of reason, not just the operative, the Council of State, why are you legislating now and not waiting? Wait! Wait a month and a half. But do you know, ladies and gentlemen? Let me tell you. Constitutionality is not a flag of opportunity. It's a way of dealing. And just - and I am ending with this - because we are at very difficult times, I would suggest that we all respect the Constitution, be dominated in our minds that the Constitution is our self-evident obligation, we are all subject to its provisions. You guys do the incredible. You brought a law here the other day, in which you assured that this law is compatible with the Constitution, as if it were not. There is no limit to the way you understand things and I'm sorry to tell you. The educational process of your operation within the current culture is progressing in a desperately slow manner and by interventions, which are extremely dangerous for the country. So, in this sense, what I am asking - please, if you like, it has no meaning, we have to get out of the crisis - are these arrangements, the incompetent, the fakers, if you want me to say so in the people's language, to withdraw. The Minister if he wants to wait, wait. If he wants to discuss with us, he can discuss. To find a wording that is compatible with the spirit of the Constitution and to end with this story, because the Greek society can no longer stand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u409	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a great deal of time for the parliamentary representatives. This cannot continue with all colleagues, because we will go too late and then you will all protest. We can't go on with this, five minutes, ten. Mr Jason Fotillas, an independent Member of Parliament, has the floor. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u410	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing unprecedented situations in parliamentary data. Instead of Mr. Pappas having already resigned, he comes to the House and calls for the change. Instead of fully complying with the decision of the Supreme Court, he is once again trying to abolish the anti-constitutional provisions. Instead of apologizing to the Greek people for the anti-constitutional medals it has made and the mud it threw into faces and institutions for more than a year, it is attacking the judges with unprecedented designations. Finally, instead of proposing persons, which would mark a consensus, he originally proposed Mr Polydora for President of the National Broadcasting Council. Well, it makes sense, Mr. Burma, that he praises this nomination. They're the same land they have. But, ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Zouraris says, with human rights and democracy, you have not been ashamed to exult the politician who carved the Golden Dawn and was described as the "Minister of the Widow"? What humiliation was that? But this is toys with institutions. If the government really is interested in restoring the constitutional order, it must make the obvious: it must abolish and not suspend the anti-constitutional provisions of the Pappa Act. Faces are next. There is not enough oral assurances from the President of Parliament that the law will be implemented. You know, base is not a disastrous reason for legislation. You know that, too. I know that, too. Besides, the Minister's words earlier than that at the Step confirm my suspicions. The positive step taken by the Government which accepts its defeat and which provides for the PPE's assent to the tendering procedure and the number of licences is not sufficient. Then, indeed, your position, Minister, has strengthened my conviction that other aims are being concealed. I'll explain why. In the event of a deadlock to the convergence of the National Broadcasting Council or if its opinion with regard to the number of licences is inconsistent with that of the Minister, will the PSE opinion prevail or will this discrepancy be used by the Pope to return to his authority to determine issues of licences in an arbitrary and unconstitutional manner? The end of the day will lead to a dead end and thus to a standstill. It is therefore necessary to abolish 2A and not to suspend 2A. A full performance of the responsibilities of the National Broadcasting Council, as described in Article 2(4), is necessary with regard to the number of licences and not simply to its assent. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has put into it. To conclude, I say this: my views on the catastrophe of the present government have been known for a long time. It will take a titanic effort from a broad coexistence of political and social forces to get the country out of the gutter you keep driving. I would like, however, once again, ladies and gentlemen of the government, to thank you sincerely for one thing: Show what the next government really has to avoid, which will soon arise through elections: not to be like you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u411	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Socrates Famelos from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u412	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, within a year of the law of 22 October 2015, we are discussing an important issue of the democratic organisation of our state, of an important democratic good, such as information, but also of a public good, such as frequencies, a good on which we have experienced very important violations in the past, but above all, a subject of constitutional interest. I would therefore like to begin with a number of remarks which contribute I believe in the parliamentary dialogue. I have heard from Mr Venizelos, from Mr Kumucako, from many colleagues - there is no personal mention - that the decision of the Council of State is a defeat. Let's sort this out in the first place. First of all, I do not think it is right in the parliamentary debate to judge the rulings of supreme courts judged to be lawful in acts of political character and to introduce into the political game from the back door by experienced constitutionalists. I would like to see a little bit of what the situation in society is today. The society and all the political parties that express it have agreed today that they need licences on television channels, that the channels should pay a price for these licences and that the operation of the independent authority is needed. These have been consolidated in the public debate. In other words, all this, which was not there twenty-seven years now, which were the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, was today consolidated in the public debate. By who? From society and the intervention of the government that has taken responsibility for governance in recent years. Because a year ago, I listened to a colleague from the New Democracy who has also been employed by a minister to say that they do not need permission. Now why does the New Democracy say they need permission? Something changed? It's changed. Society was convinced that there was a fair and necessary need for the implementation of the Constitution and that the conservation area was ideologically backed up. It's reasonable and expected. Why don't you admit it? That's the reality. Who was defeated? No one was defeated. Society moved forward. That is the reality that we all have to accept. I do not want to triumph for our own basic option which has been socially guaranteed. You have also tabled a draft law on this, but I want us to understand that society is gaining because it has slowly decided to deceive one - one - of the bonds that kept it humiliated. Because information and the public good of frequencies have been missing from society so far. The European acquis is coming back, because the Commissioner has also heard his disagreement. On the contrary, all the Commissioner's documents on this issue speak in our choices, but also in the country's ability to tender, but at the same time the European acquis returns. However, we will not do so, thanks to the lawyers of the canal authorities, to withdraw a law that the Council of State has repeatedly said that it is necessary, because this was missing from the country to date and it was the responsibility of some who were missing. So the government takes the initiative and political responsibility to establish the National Broadcasting Council, which must also monitor the licensing, but also the current period, which we have no monitoring programme. This was clearly recorded by Law No.4339, in our law, namely, which you have not dared to legislate because you had a constitutional obligation. Was this government's law on the Council of State? Let me read you. In Article 1, you assigned the authorisation. In Article 2, he entrusted all the issues relating to the PSE's powers with the notice. I should like to point out and reply to Mr Tindemans, who is not here. I suspect Mr. Kedicoglou will. By definition of the ESS assent in paragraph 4 of Article 2, all the responsibilities - of the Minister - require the PSE's assent. But also the starting price, we propose - and this will be heard and an amendment has been tabled - that this should also be determined in agreement with the PPE. In Article 3 of our law, the PSE is responsible for the notice. In Article 4, the subject of a letter of guarantee is the subject of a letter of guarantee. In Article 5 the issue of denomination of shares. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, you will allow me, as soon as I have begun. Article 6 shall have the matters of criminal records and transparency registers, the content of the programme and time equipment, personnel employed, the licensing process, additional information, the register, pre-selection, additional information, where relevant. All of this, on our own initiative, was on the National Broadcasting Council. The proposal that we are bringing today comes because without knowing the rationale of the decision and because the administration would normally have the obligation to continue the tendering procedure and to grant permission, we propose that the application of Article 2A should be suspended until the Council has published its reasoning. in order not to create any acts that need to be cancelled. They do not have to seek to find a reason for disagreement in the'suspended' or'repealed' parties, quite simply because the major issue of licensing is suspended, so no one has to worry about it. We reserve to correct the law when it comes to thinking and at the same time suspend the creation of any acts that need to be cancelled following the publication of the decision of the Council of State. On the other hand, however, I am also asking myself - and Mr Dendias said - how experienced constitutionalists and politicians can be lured into degrading expressions for the Council of State, as Mr Fortsakis did ten days ago here in Parliament and raise a question of obvious unconstitutionalism without the decision yet to be taken. So amateurism and carelessness by experienced colleagues, I wasn't expecting it. From journalistic information to denounce former Deputy Prime Minister anti-constitutional attitude of the present government? Is it possible to be so sloppy in our argument? Can this be a policy level? Is it possible for some of the constituents of the Constitution to be invoked with journalistic information? The state and the government must respect the Council of State, and that is what we are doing. In 2010, the Council of State told us that it is an unconstitutional environment for the operation of television channels. In 2013, he told us that it is unconstitutional to extend the term of office of the PSE members by decision 3515 and that is why he has canceled, if you wish, many of the PSE decisions - Mr Barkas said so previously - because there is no way for the term of office to be extended justly. In 2006, several decisions were taken against interim measures, and he told us that there was a need for the tender and the authorisation. So the government and the state do what the Council of State said. What does the government want to do with interests in this process? First of all, what the government wants to do with interests seems every day of the week on the Committee of Inquiry, which we learn a great deal about how the interests were settled and we have even brought Piraeus to bear on loans, loans and unscrupulous loans, the New Democracy and the PASOK. It also appeared, because this government collected advertising fees and taxes, for no one else had been collected until now. This government collected 80 million and millions of the first instalment, and this government made a law rejecting the competition and the "E" channel and the channel of Mr Karatzafiris and the nomination of Mr. Kalogritsa and "Tletpi" of the competition. Who else dared so far to harm the closed-information cartel that operated in the media? But let me say that I cannot judge that, from many aspects of the House, a attitude is being tabled which calls into question the functioning of the government itself. In other words, 'if you do not do ours...' - the minority says so, the democratic decision of the elections - '...then we will blackmail you by not forming an independent authority'. In other words, the parliamentary minority disputes the government's right to legislate, disputes the decision of the Greek citizens, about who has the responsibility for governance. This, let me tell you, when used as extortion, insults democracy, offends all Greek citizens, regardless of what they voted for, because all Greek citizens respect their vote. If you do not respect the outcome of the elections and are blackmailing through the independent authority against the outcome of the elections, let me say that you do not respect your own voters either. There is a great difference here, which we want to table. We all agree on permits, we all agree on price. But do we all have the same pursuits? I have to say it. The proposal for a draft law of the New Democracy, which was announced several times, but then "finished" and stated that it is not a proposal for a law based on public criticism, seemed that the New Democracy wants fewer interests of the state, more interests of the canalarchs, no protection and provision for workers and impracticable licensing. Because he says there will be a number of permits, there will be beneficiaries, but no one tells us how these two fit and how the successful ones eventually turn out. This answer to the question whether it is now a drug addiction, why don't you not even want your own law, the plan of the proposal, ever end? Finally, we are wondering whether you are the ones who are considering the process of channelling. That's what you were trying to do about not forming the PSE. That's why we amended 2A. But let me tell you that we know very well because we support these initiatives, which we have before us. First of all, Mr Kedicoglou, I see, at a timely question on 8 October 2012, you admitted that you have not collected anything from the channels. You're in charge, but you haven't collected any. It's your answer. I've got her here in the Minutes. I've been looking too hard to find her.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u413	We've been government for two months. We were just in charge.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u414	And we, Mr. Kedicoglou, did, did, tried and cancel the suspension of the payment of television advertising tax, which the previous Secretary-General of Public Income had given in January 2015. We insisted on the question of the collection of frequency fees. That's what it looks like. Someone did it. Someone else didn't do it. I have nothing to say. It's all history.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u415	Mr. Comrade, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u416	I shall conclude, Mr President. However, we do not want, ladies and gentlemen, a controlled Broadcasting Council. Besides, that's why we proposed Bouron Polydora. It's not our political space. That's why we accepted Mr. Moroni. He's not in our political space either. You, when I attended the fourth meeting of the Conference of Presidents, said that this is a very good proposal, so long as the issue of the S.H.E. is resolved, why do you not accept it now? Because you said so in the Conference of Presidents. Are you playing the courgette just so it doesn't become a TV board? We also accepted the replacement of Mr. Mullopoulos by Mr. Kiao. We did this. We accepted it. It was a proposal of counterpopulation. Let's get a little serious. The whole of Greece understands what you want. You set up a trap in the government, and now you're doing your best to keep you from falling into it. We consider the establishment of an independent authority to be a priority, and we are prepared to have a democratic debate and a composition and everything it takes to establish it. You very simply want a Greek enslavement to a handful of families, to work without pretext, so that the same families who inherit in their children can become members of parliament, ministerial and prime chairs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u417	Mr. Comrade, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u418	Ladies and gentlemen, in fact - and I am ending - Greece's main issue is not the permits. The main issue is the one and a half million unemployed you have created, the eleven reductions in pensions you have made, are the consequences of the policy of the New Democracy and of the PASOK, the consequences of Mr Samaras, Mr Mitsotakis, Mr Dendia, Mr Georgiadis, all that we have just changed, with the abolition of the pentacle, with health and uninsured, with the recruitment of hospitals. We, however, know that all this evil past in an alliance of your governments with the canaries, with "seaweeds" and services, humiliated and humiliated an entire country, and that is our duty, to end with the old, to return democracy, constitution, isotope and television space.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u419	You're done, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u420	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u421	Mr Spyros Lappas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u422	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was also the rapporteur at No4339 and in Amendment No 2A. Then to all the tons we were honestly saying that our initiative is an institutional part of the information sector, and that is not from a whim or obsession, but because it was an urgent political need, it was a social requirement and an initiative of a democratic nature. It should have covered some institutional gap, which was certainly not created under our responsibility, but under the responsibility of all the other governments for about three decades. Unfortunately, the governments since 1989 have been stubborn and obsessively unwilling to cover this gap, despite the fact that decisions by the Council of State have been talking about anomaly and a lack of legitimacy in the television area. Today, of course, there is a reversal of things. It is for the national court to consider it to be the tortoise of the complaint and even the overthrow of the legitimately elected government. The governments are not falling, ladies and gentlemen, with a judicial decision, which even has a strong minority, 11-14. Do you know anything else? In the Council of State, we have another twenty-five prior interim decisions, which said that compelling reasons of public interest require the competitive process to be dealt with quickly. We voted for No.4339, which you are critical of today, after the decision of the Council of State has been adopted. The decision of the Council of State does not concern Mr.4339, ladies and gentlemen of the other parties. The decision of the Council of State concerns the amendment to Article 2A, that is, our legislative initiative in spring 2016. Law 4339 gave up and enforced all responsibilities in the ERC. But the PSE, which was not made up of three responses from a stubborn tactic of yours, never formed. Three meetings were held until our legislative initiative in spring 2016. In emergencies, or if you want force majeure, we have had to take an initiative. What should we do, in the view of any reasonable and intent person, when the PSE was not constituted? Should the state not act responsibly and cover the void that was created? How, in your view, would the direct state control that the Greek state had to exercise, as laid down in Article 15(2) of the Constitution, be implemented? Never practice? We have chosen that, as long as the PSE is not established, we should have an initiative. Today it is shown that this legislative initiative is seen as unconstitutional. We respect the decision and we will obey it absolutely. Today, the Civic Opposition in particular, while it should have another attitude, consensual in my view, states to all tons that it is not ready to come to the establishment of the National Radio Council, which is a constitutional obligation, not only political, because it says it requires the withdrawal of the Pappa law. How can you be so sure that the provisions of Law 4339 have been considered as unconstitutional? From which court and what decision? Do you overhear the unconstitutionality and want to be covered by only one provision and all the provisions? I will tell you why: why, in your view, you want the tender procedure to be abolished. There is nowhere, in any way, rhetoric and arguments of yours, but even in the proposal for a law made by the word 'democratic'. This means abolishing transparency in competition and in the field of labour relations, it means abolishing the arrangements for the share capital of candidates, means abolishing the nomination of shares, means abolishing the incompatibilities of candidates and investigating the situation of candidates. It also means abolishing the positive requirements for technical equipment and building infrastructure for candidates, as well as the minimum threshold for the workers we have set, at least for one category, and for the decision of the Council of State, the four hundred people. I must tell you that the workers' trade unions said in 2009 there were four thousand workers. Today there are a thousand nine hundred to two thousand. Are you serious when you say that our law affected the number of workers? In what circumstances are today the thousand nine hundred and two thousand workers working? Under conditions of a far-sighted kind of proverb. So two things cannot be included in your argument: the auction, as a way of competitive procedure, and the question of industrial relations, where there will be a minimum number and legality of employment and a minimum wage. That's what we're completely different about. Another thing: I told you that it was a defeat, not just in political terms, but in terms of democracy and the rule of law. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. It was said by one speaker that our decision, Article 2A, also insults Union law. I say in the Minutes the answer that Ediger gave, at which time he said two things: firstly, that the competitive process - and I stress the words 'competitive procedure' - is an obligation arising from the Stability Pact of the ESM and, secondly, that, as far as the issue of the regulation of the television landscape is concerned, it is not a Union obligation because it has not been jointly regulated for all the countries of the European Union. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Spyridon Lappas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I want to say one more thing: it was said that SYRIZA abolished it. Ladies and gentlemen, since 2013, I will now give the Minutes two decisions - the PSE was not legally constituted. When we took over the country's governance, in January 2015, i.e., the PSE did not have a legal structure. Do you know why? Because the provisions for the extension for another four years under Article 57 of the Act - Mr Kedicoglou knows - were, in response to decisions of the Council of State, considered to be unconstitutional. There is no extension of a full term nor even a fraction of the term of office, the PSE said. Mr. Kedicoglou, it's two decisions, I'm presenting them. Take copies to get up to date. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Spyridon Lappas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In view of all this, I would like to inform you that I have just signed a parliamentary amendment, which extends the PSE's 'consent' not only on the issue of the number of members but also on the starting price, which means that the Minister without the agreement of the PSE cannot set any starting price.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u423	Yes, sir. All right, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u424	Let the Minister tell us to write it down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u425	It's accepted, Mr. Loverdo. We agree on that, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u426	We hope the Minister will accept it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u427	The Minister will answer as to whether he will accept it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u428	Can it be accepted, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u429	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u430	The Minister accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u431	So we have nothing to do with Article 2, which is done by an exclusive decision or competence of the relevant Minister. The PSE's assent and exclusive opinion shall be preceded. Mr President, I would like to close by explaining why today we say that it is'suspensed' and not'repealed'. And I'll speak mostly to the legal ears. You know very well that an administrative act to ensure that it does not have any effect, there must be a specific decision that has been served on us and specifically defines what is suspended or abolished. Open a parentheses: For the most part, this setting is done. I totally agree with some people who have said so. The parentheses are closed. If we were to say today 'the provision is abolished', we would have to develop as arguments the reasoning of the S.H.E., which we do not have. Is it not enough for you all to state - and for the competent ministers and Members - that the abolition is of itself? We are simply saying'suspension' today, so that we have the decision in our hands, so that by making the abolition or replacement in the explanatory statement of another legal provision, we can only include the reasoning of the S.H.E., so that we are accurate and consistent. This is precisely what is being done as a preventive act imposed by Article 95(5) of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u432	Understood, Mr. Colleague and argument.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u433	I close, Mr President, and oppose the phrase and accusations of some of the Vice-Presidents that SYRIZA demonstrates a state-of-the-art conception. Alas, if we have shown such a perception, when for some people democracy is too narrow and it fits only the same and their friends! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u434	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister Pappas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u435	I will only speak a minute, Mr President. It is clear that the amendment is accepted. I call on the opposition parties to understand the acceptance of this amendment as another step towards wisdom, composition and consensus. I would just like to say this: when we discussed Law 4339, the remaining national Broadcasting Council - the remaining members, because much had left - for this law. For many of these regulations, these people formally delivered their opinion to the relevant committee - by letter - that they cannot give a statement on the technical equipment, building infrastructure and on the type of guarantee letters and on sustainability. Take note, even a reference to sustainability is made to the relevant decision by the National Broadcasting Council at the time. I would therefore like to welcome the course of the debate, apart from two, in my opinion - in my opinion - because I see that there are low tons. I think we can really complete it today and go to the next meeting of the Conference of Presidents, where this necessary step must be completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u436	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u437	Mr President, I would like the floor for a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u438	Mr President, I would like the floor because there have been two references to my face.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u439	I beg your pardon, ladies and gentlemen, not to open a circle now because the Minister made an intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u440	Mr President, I ask for the floor on a matter concerning my face.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u441	Staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u442	On staff, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u443	Wait a minute, Mr. Comrade, excuse me. Mr. Loverdo, how about you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u444	A clarification of the amendment, Mr President, to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u445	It's for the amendment, Mr. Kedicoglou, so wait. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u446	It's what I said in my place. I don't know why you had to put Mr. Lappa on the phone. The opposition told you about the position of the Parliamentary Representative of Democratic Independence. I would like to ask you - and you should at least mention it for reasons of parliamentary order - the wording made in the last subparagraph of Article 2(4). I should like to remind you, Mr President, that Article 2(4) has been an opportunity to speak on the objection of unconstitutionalism which has been raised by the whole House. You said it was constitutional, you, Mr. Lappa, personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u447	There's no reason to go to a new confrontation now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u448	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u449	Mr. Lappa, it's okay. Don't go now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u450	Article 2(4) shall read as follows: The starting price by category, etc., shall be determined by common decision of the Minister for Finance and the Minister to whom the powers of the Secretariat-General for Information and Communication are delegated, after agreement of the PSE. Is that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u451	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u452	Yeah, that's what he says. Good. The amendment was accepted, Mr Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u453	Mr. Kedicoglou has the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u454	Mr President, for thirty seconds. I just want some things to get into place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u455	Just a minute, Mr. Kedicoglou, because "some things" scared me!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u456	No, Mr. President. Firstly, with regard to the successive extensions, my dear colleague, it was because you refused to consent to the selection of new people for the Broadcasting Council. Also, the multiple reports...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u457	2013 and 2014?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u458	Yeah, yeah. And in 2013 and 2014 from this Step, I invited you to consent and you refused.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u459	Read what the decision of the Council of State says.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u460	Secondly, with regard to the question referred by Mr Famelos: we had only been in office for two months, Mr Famele. You're going to create impressions for no reason. Do you have another question? Because I was two years Minister. Thirdly, you also referred to the decision of the Council of State in 2010. I recommend you look at what this decision was about. It was not such matters, all-Greek-wide stations. It was about regional stations. The decision of the Council of State was because it had been granted an indefinite period of time, with only participation in a competitive process that was not completed. That's why things have to get into place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u461	Good. It's understood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u462	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u463	Mr. Femelle, what now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u464	Nothing, Mr President, just to help Mr Kedicoglou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u465	But you won't help him, or we'll create a new staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u466	There's no staff. But they have to answer us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u467	Two elections had been held, and they were cleared up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u468	Ladies and gentlemen, do you now have to manage the debate?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u469	No, Mr. President. You.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u470	Mr. Femelle, with great respect, you will answer, Mr. Kedicoglou will answer and we will go back to the beginning.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u471	Mr President, because I will not take the floor again. I'd just like 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u472	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u473	Mr. Kedicoglou, you might indeed have had some time you took. Nevertheless, I would like you, in return for your term of office, to tell us what you have received, whether or not it is true that the 2010 TV advertising fee law had five years of continuous non-recovery, with the last General Secretariat of Public Revenue, which we first collected. You had a law since 2010 and none of you dared, had the political stature to collect television advertising fees. Yes or no, Mr. Kedicoglou? That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u474	Mr President, I would like to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u475	Mr Kedicoglou, you will answer with 'yes' or 'no' or you will not.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u476	Mr President, I have to reply. We had two elections...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u477	You want a speech. You're right. It is no accident that I asked Mr Famello not to speak because he is now asking you to respond with a political speech about your things. It's not possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u478	Let me just remind him that two elections were held in 2012...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u479	Did you get any money?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u480	...and there is, under the law, the obligation to cover the value of the television time allocated.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u481	Did you get any money? Did you collect something?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u482	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u483	I mean, they've agreed on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u484	Television advertising fee...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u485	You know the law that says when elections take place, 1.5% goes...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u486	You, Mr. Triantafylides, what do you want? It's a nice atmosphere!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u487	You didn't have the stature to collect a television advertising tax. You didn't have it. Five years of extension.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u488	Nisafi now!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u489	Money dropping? Did they pass through the fund?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u490	Mr Famele, when a climate of consensus and convergence is formed, and after the Minister's intervention, do you do everything you can to blow it off? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u491	You're also tax fighters. You didn't even have any documents.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u492	Mr. Georgios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u493	Thank you, Mr President. I think some people were raped in here to see a climate of consensus. The truth is that this consensus, which was requested at the very first moment by the Qualified Opposition, was not responded by the government. I mean, that's because things have been heard. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, it is your right to legislate. The Greek people gave it to you. However, this legislation has frameworks which are in principle provided for in the Constitution. In these contexts you can legislate. And, of course, the distinction of powers gives the Council of State the absolute right to decide whether or not a law is constitutional. Simple as that! When they go to law school, they should know that on the first day. The Council of State is the only institution in the country to say whether a law that brings a government here is constitutional or not. You have decided to bring a law that we have told you here since the first time that it had many issues of unconstitutionality. He told you, as he had to, as he had the right, the whole Opposition. The vast majority of the country's constitutionalists told you that. You decided to move on. Then another reasoning voice was heard: "Wait for the Council of State to take a decision on your law and then proceed to the competitive process." But you were in a hurry. You obviously wanted to create a fait accompli. However, where the whole argument from the standpoint of the Opposition was, you proceeded, as you had a right. On the way we saw interventions that were unacceptable, unfair, unprecedented in relation to the operation of the Council of State by the Prime Minister's official lips at the beginning. The Prime Minister, as you know, has an important role of our laws in selecting the highest judges. When the Prime Minister intervenes publicly and says: 'I do not imagine that the Council of State has another position', if this is not an intervention from someone who has the potential to influence them, then I do not know what it is. Then, we also had your party body, "AYSHAI", where we know how he made personal data a judge. We have reached the decision of the Council of State, which came and ratified what we said would happen. Look what you're doing today. Today, we would expect a return to logic, regularity and consensus. This is one condition: we must all expect the reasoning of the decision of the Council of State. The issues that have been raised and, I suppose, those that are cleansed up until publication are very important and I imagine that it will also be the framework that will necessarily determine the position of all of us. Instead of waiting for a month and a half for the cleansed decision of the Council of State to enable us all to take the next step, this step that our society requires is to close this issue, which is currently stirring up in Greece, while there are so many other outstanding issues, you are coming once again and you are trying to create a feat. I don't know why you're doing this. In fact, you have been caught at the moment by a stress on the consequences that may exist in relation to the successful tenderers, based on the annulment of the decision of the Council of State. You were not at all aware of this when we told you, at the beginning of the procedure, not to try to create a fait accompli and to let the decision of the Council of State be adopted. Once again, then, we can see you're in a hurry. Don't be in a hurry. Just because you are today legislating and you have twice the phrase for the operation of the PSE with the assent, for me this is in complete contradiction with the role that the PSE must play. We're talking about an independent authority. And next to the independent authority, we put the Minister's assent. Take the contrary, we are talking to the Minister and we are in agreement. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. And that alone will create new issues of unconstitutionality. We cannot talk about an EPP and at the same time demand assent at every step of the competitive process. To conclude, I would like to say that this is a last chance - and I address the Minister who is now absent, but I imagine he will listen - to all of us getting the messages of society and coming to see what is really necessary. But if that is to happen, we must not operate authoritarianly or outside the constitutional framework and, of course, we must also be trustworthy. The New Democracy has said one thing from the outset and it is consistent with this to date: give all the responsibilities that the Constitution must and provides for in the PSE, and then we will be accountable and accountable if we do not come to the people, who may ultimately be of the least importance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u494	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber of ENIZELOS and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-nine students and students and two educational attendants from the General School of Kyparissia. Welcome, dear friends. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr George Lazarides has the floor from the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u495	Thank you, Mr President. I will start by saying to a colleague who spoke here a moment ago and who was previously identified as a socialist - now, of course, we see him before the door of the New Democracy - how is it that these two areas are approached so easily? Since the New Democracy has taken the path of neoliberalism, we have seen many paradoxical things become and many executives from the old PASOK to find refuge in the New Democracy. And this colleague has identified this government, if you like, with disaster. The devastation in the country was brought to the attention of those who took the debt ratio - GDP 120%! That government didn't do it. They then took it to 185%, because they managed to deceive the Greek people and convince him that they would be able to give a solution. And they took the debt by 50%. They went to 1.5 percent, to 1.800,000 of the unemployed. Therefore, the disaster in the country was brought to their attention and not this government. This government is desperately trying, with desperate attempts to correct their own criminal mistakes. In any case, we should come to today. What is the government trying to do today? Put the TV scenery in one class. What for twenty-seven years has been in absolute dissatisfaction and of which the Greek State was not collecting anything, today this government is going to put them in order. And let me tell you something else. The government is coming to continue something that the then New Republic of radical liberalism, which was walking on the principles put by Constantine Karamanlis at the 1976 Halkidiki conference, started in 2004. This is what the government is trying to do today, to put this environment in order of intergovernment, lawlessness and indifference. I will shortly read to you some things that WikiLeaks revealed about the role that the media have played in Greece. These interconnectors that were managed and still managed by the media, aren't they who created the Vatopedio scandal and threw Kostas Karamanlis' government back then? When, of course, it turns out that the Vatali children were no more than a scandal, it went to the finest or, if you like, it was not discussed at all, that was normally necessary in large letters and in all tonnes to point out that it was not a scandal, in order to restore that period and the honor, in any case, of this political person, Kostas Karamanlis. And the 2004-2009 period was a period during which he tried and succeeded to a large extent, to restore the damage, the damage caused by the Shiite Government. Here I have some evidence I will submit next. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Is my time five minutes, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u496	It's five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u497	I was under the impression that she was nine, because I'd seen nine before...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u498	There are colleagues who have spoken for ten minutes, but that does not mean that they were right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u499	Anyway. There are two other things I want to say, Mr President. I'll read you two things, and then I'll testify. These are classified documents that present some views of the American Embassy. In particular, it is the former US Ambassador to Greece, Charles Rice, who says: "The real focus of opacity and interactivity is found in the private industry of the Greek media media, media, which is characterised as oversized and loss-making, while it is noted that television channels operate without permission". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm putting down the document on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, George Lazaridis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Previously, we said that this government was successful and received some money for permits, etc. You suggest, you say, that you give it back. This money belongs to the Greek people. Would you give them back? So, the frequencies are gonna work, huh? Frequency is the Greek people. It's not the property of any government, it's the frequencies. On the issue of unconstitutionalism, I will make no comment on the decision of the Council of State. What I would like to ask, however, and, in any case, based on what we call the common sense of law, is this: is it a constitutional function for twenty-seven years without rules, without any class of all these channels, of all these SMEs? Is this a constitutional and moral situation? Of course, the morality here is relevant, because when the Vice-President of the Armed Forces comes out on the channels and says that the debt of 200 million has to be covered, it means that morality is relevant, and everyone differently understands morality. These 200 million are the money of the Greek people. When you ask for these to be given you, it means that you have a special perception of this part. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, the Vice-President of the New Democracy continues in his position and says that this must be done in order to enable democracy to function properly, because the military opposition must stand on its feet for democracy to function. When democracy is identified with a party, do you know what it means? It means a state-of-the-art concept. Democracy is not based on any party. Democracy is based on the parties in order to function.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u500	Coming up, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u501	I shall conclude, Mr President. In conclusion, I would like to say to the honourable Members of the New Democracy that I am still waiting for a comment on the Georges case. I would also like now to draw attention to you now, because your former partners started and asked for an investigation to be started in 2004 and 2009, implying that at that time things have happened which have a great responsibility for what the country has been experiencing since 2009, and on the contrary, I told you that period before. I mean, they want to tarnish at that time, having as their target a particular person. I'll ask you to be careful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u502	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Nikolaos Thibeaus has the floor on an amendment he has tabled. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u503	I would simply like to withdraw the amendment because it has been found that it is necessary to complete it - I thank the Minister - and it will be retabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u504	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Ioannis Aivatidis, Member of the Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u505	Thank you, Mr President. I will deal with the four disputed ministerial amendments: Initially with 734/9 and 741/16, the last, the last. It is remarked that the coup d'état was defeated by a state in the field of the dispute over constitutionality or not of the short-lived Pappa law. As regards the amendment, the use of the word'suspension' is decisive for the decision and the negative attitude of the Golden Dawn. It is a temporary pause, not a definitive abolition, and it betrays the suffering wickedness and arrogantness of coexistence. Perhaps at the very last moment this word could be replaced by the word'repeal'. Golden Dawn is firmly in favour of the reconstruction of an indestructible National Broadcasting Council, which, in fulfilling its duty, will act punishably - I repeat punishing - for those who, in six years' time, are massly blocking the Golden Dawn from the media and depriving the Greek people of full information. The Golden Dawn is therefore voting against these two amendments. As for Amendment No 739/14 by the Ministers of George Stathakis and Euklidis Tsakalotou, this concerns the holding company and property, the infamous and xenophobic supermarket. The word 'derogations' used is typical of the mindset of both Ministers, but also of the government. It provides for awards above and below the financial limits provided for in Article 5 of Law 4412/2016, i.e. permitting the appropriate costing of contracts, bypassing and overhearing the Independent Authority for Public Contracts. It is therefore unconstitutional and we are voting against this amendment as well. Finally, I am pleased that the Minister, Mr Stavros Kontonis, is here, because I shall refer to a quite interesting subject. This amendment, Amendment No 738/13, concerns the Temporary Committee on Wales, and recommends an alternate, foreign commission, which leads, Minister, to a further extremism of football in our country. Note that in the case of racing, there are football teams the Super League that only have one or two Greeks in their dozens. The circumvention of the provisions of the ETUC is unequivocal and we are of course voting against it. But the Golden Dawn is thinking of proposing to introduce an amendment, which I would say is in line with advanced football nations, such as the Netherlands and Spain, where groups of young people are, of course, included in the second or third category championship for the Netherlands in the second category, for Spain in the third category. This will result as a direct result, namely the emergence of talented Greeks. The people have to realise that, on the occasion of the issue of channel licensing, the co-government and the parties of the New Democracy and of the PASOK produce a devastating political enthusiasm, so that citizens do not have sufficient visibility for the most serious, ongoing, critical national issues. But they synchronize fully SYRIZA, ANEL, New Democracy, PASOK on key issues that produce ethnic erosion, such as the divestment of public property, the building of the Islamic mosque, the coexistence pact. They are therefore collaborators in this unreasonable deterioration of the worthy system of our nation. Golden Dawn is and will be, in persuasiveness of the pseudo-constitutional arch, an ethnic guard within and outside Parliament, a guardian of the values of the nation, Hellenism and orthodoxism, provoking eternal, strong national resistance to the new monumental occupation of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u506	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague Mr. Ioannis Stephen from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u507	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for fourteen months, the opposition has focused its political debate on a law. That's why she's given her change! This is because, with its abolition, all operators of the interlocking and confiscation of public goods are served. The communication thriller played by the channels and the New Democracy on Law4339 and the upcoming decision of the Board of Directors. are bilingual dimensions and specifications, with many candidacies for the hypocrisy Oscar. The rotation of the roles played by the Civic Opposition is admittedly admirable, but its ability to convince is rather low. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] The whole scene has been formed on lies, inaccurate and abyssing New Democracy's brethren for power. With the leaking of a possible decision of the S.H.E.L.D. He called for the resignation of the government, as if the constitutionality or not of a law over the years judged the government's stay in power. Then she asked and asked for the resignation of the Pope, because, as we know, she was her moral minister, supposedly, a constitutional diversion that she imagined, because paragraph 2A transferred powers to the Minister from the PSE, which has not yet been established, under the responsibility of counter-population. Subsequently, as throughout the whole of Mr Mitsotakis' headship, the Civic Opposition is being hampered by the creation of the PSE. Every intelligent citizen of this country understands the complete moral and political catastrophe of this New Democracy by Mr Mitsotakis, who, by lies, blackmail and threats, considers that it can overthrow the political scene and the stability of the government. But let us see some of the lies that dominate the whole communication game that has been set up by Opposition and channels. Lies First: The decision of the S.H.E.L.D. The S.H.E.'s decision. it contains a rationale. We ignore that at the moment, since it has not been written. It's not that it's not been cleaned, it hasn't been written yet. False Two: The Law - Papa, he says, was considered unconstitutional. Of course it doesn't. It contains fifteen articles giving the PSE much wider powers than previous laws by Mr Reppa, Mr Rusopoulos, Mr Venizelos. None of the articles of this law entered the S.H.E.'s judgment. All we know, based on the leaks, is that Article 2A entered, which was added in February 2016, because of the weakness of the PSE recommendation, for the reasons I mentioned above. Lie third: The decision of the S.H.E. cancels the invitation to tender for the licences. Of course it's not like that. The S.T.E. He did not make a decision on this. This appeal shall be heard in January 2017. Lie fourth: the law of Pappa is cancelled. No court or S.T.E. has the ability to annul a law adopted by the Greek Parliament. Ask any retired person if he got anything back after S.H.E.D.'s decision, who judged his cuts unconstitutional. For the purposes of Article 4 of Regulation (EEC) No 4093/12 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community, Regulation (EEC) No 4093/12 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving The S.T.E.'s competence. is to judge the constitutionality or any law or part of it. The House, ladies and gentlemen, is the one who decides to suspend the application of a law or replace it with someone else. It is a matter of political order and ethos by political power if it will suspend the application of a provision of law which has been judged to be unconstitutional. And that is exactly what the government is doing today. It shows the politics of morality. It honors the constitutional requirement for adjusting the television landscape. It honors citizens' confidence. Let the New Democracy tell us how it honors the Constitution. Let's tell us how he's honored it for so many years now, he didn't want to look at the radio frequencies. Let us know how he honoured the Constitution and the earlier decisions of the S.H.E., who considered that the non-authorization of the channels is unconstitutional. Let us know how the Constitution honors by not agreeing to the formation of the PSE in the successive invitations to the President of the Parliament. Let us know how the Constitution honors, following blackmail tactics to serve the interests of canalarchs. Let him finally explain how he honors society as a whole and in particular the poorest strata in society, considering that the EUR 250 million that would be collected from permits and would be given to cover the most serious social needs is preferable to remain in the bank accounts of four wealthy people. Let the New Democracy tell us how it ensures the social, unpaid sea-loving of its party of over 200 million euros. Ladies and gentlemen, by ending, the government once again proves its faith in the Constitution and perpetuates its will to implement the laws. It proposes a way out of consultation to find a wider consensus on the creation of the PSE. For the sake of democracy and the credibility of the political world, let us not lose another chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u508	Thank you, Mr. Ioannis Stephos, MP of SYRIZA. Mr Dimitris Kammenos, Member of the Independent Greeks, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u509	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I've been in the Chamber a long time. From my office in the House I've been attending almost all the speeches. For the remark I'm going to make, please anyone I'm likely to blame for forgive me. The current law of the Honourable Minister for Maritime Affairs, which is the constitution of the Agreement between the Government of Greece and the Republic of Cyprus on cooperation in research and rescue, I think it is also the main body of the debate. I'm sad, I'm very disappointed, because no one sat down to this part of the law. A couple of days ago in Chios - and the South also knows - let me forgive the native, Mr Metarakis, I say this friendlyly - we had the accident of a Turkish sailing crew. At 16.00, Greece NOTAM issued for research and rescue. At 16.45, if I'm not mistaken, it publishes NOTAM Turkey and says: "No, I will go search and rescue" to distinguish Greek waters. It then sends the second NOTAM at 17:30, the Turkish coastguard and says that the NOTAM of Greece is invalid. And two days ago, we lived a piece of the embarrassing night of the Imian. We lived on paper. There is nothing more serious than the Greek Parliament, all the pieces horizontally, all the politicians, men and women, in this Chamber, about research and rescue and cooperation between Greece and Cyprus. We are talking about AEZ, we are talking about maritime borders, we are talking about shipping rules, we are talking about the aggression and the way Turkey's President in the last few days, Mr Erdogan, has been treating various parts of his population, such as judges, military, teachers, teachers - the other day, he arrested them all, at the same time he sees visions of Thrace, sees visions of Thessaloniki, the very good friend of Eddie Rama, who makes mosques - because I went to Tirana in NATO and I saw them, and I saw them, what they did, and how they were recruited for IS through Albania, but he's not here - he told us that he has visions of Athens, that is, neither the Internet nor a google did to look at who Dusman was and what had been in Acropolis - and we are talking about the PSE. Honestly, I think the opposition has a great responsibility. It is the government's responsibility, but I think it is the opposition that has raised it as a major issue. If cooperation between Greece and Cyprus is not a major issue for the rules governing research and rescue in Greek territorial waters and in Cypriot territorial waters and in Kastelorizo and in the islands down there, then what is it? The ERR? What canalarch - who have given 255 million, committed and given 90 - will not give it, if he will get it back, if we have four or six permits? The four, six or eight licenses, what will they say next day? That a Turk entered Greek waters and rescued him by Turkish insurmountable, so he thinks he has a right inside the Aegean Sea? Does it matter who the canalarch is? I think not. Honestly, I think today's bill should stay the guys in the S.H.E.'s decision, which has badly leaked. I have made a statement in this regard. All this should be checked by another prosecutor. How did it leak an hour or two before the decision of the Council of State, this supreme institution, the decision of a journalist, who told us in real time on television the decision, and we are talking about the decision? For me she's void. I want it to be recorded in the Minutes. It's void no matter what comes out. Once he's leaked, it's void. I don't understand why it's legal. I really don't understand why it's legal, since there's been an official leak. I don't know if a colleague disagrees. Legal knowledge, however, I do not have the knowledge I have and those of common sense, for me it is invalid whatever comes out and anyone will be able to offend it because it has leaked. And then we'll come over and discuss what's going to happen. I don't know. You tell me. If the decision was upside down and a journalist of mine, of the ANELs, George Kusulas or one of the "AGEY", was 14-11 in favour of constitutionality, and the journalist went out on the channel an hour ago and said, "You know, I know it's a constitutional law," what would you say? What do you say? Well, now we're discussing the absurd, okay, I understand that, I understand the political reasons, but there are real reasons. And because there are too many Greeks listening to us, and unfortunately they have gone up to the ladder and politics and the media - which, of course, they do for themselves, because it is their home, it is their job, they do well and they have it first in the scalpel - I would like us to land, help the government and with the consent of ending the issue of the PSE on Monday... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Let us see the issue of NOTAM and what the Turks in the Aegean are doing in relation to research and rescue, to fall into the real economy, to raise the money - which we at least collected, even potentially, but also to the fund, have gone to 90 million, and why should we collect less than 5,10,15, the three, the two and the two? - and see the real economy. It is not the first concern of the Greek citizen to have the PSE. They are the rules of democracy, equality and equal representation in the media, but so far. Please move on Monday and go further. And I'm closing up with the question that I'm going to submit to the Minutes, which I've been doing since the beginning of the year. In any case, to all my fellow Members, I asked the Minister for Finance that I wanted to know how much fines have been charged by the ERR to the media, the whole of them, and whether they have been collected. I'll leave you the evidence, so that I don't eat the time of the next one to finish our meeting soon, see that it's unresolved over 20 million fines. The years that were not management and were not commanded by the SYRIZA - ANEL government, but by others. And we have them per DU and they will be checked per DU, because they did not collect the fines. Will you tell me, "They haven't finished"? I want a check. I'm gonna leave this evidence to see that when you have 20 million fines unresolved by the PSE, maybe something smells bad and I think it smells politically bad. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u510	We, too, thank Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, MP of the Independent Greeks. Mr Marios Georgiadis has the floor from the Centron Association. Here comes Mr. Karamanlis, and then is Mr. Papatheodorou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u511	Good evening, too. Ladies and gentlemen, we are living on the altar of irrationalism once again because we see in a simple sanction all the focus has gone to a completely different point. That is to say, three amendments, as has been mentioned by many colleagues, which could come individually to another bill and have nothing to do with the ratification that we should be discussing at the moment. It has not been ratified, at least as far as I have heard as I have ever been in Parliament or outside the House. We are talking at the moment about the definition of disorientation, a clear victory for the government, because instead of discussing the major issues, as has also been mentioned by several colleagues, who are HNVIA, who are the pensions, which are the Greek issue, the unemployment that is based on the Institute of Labour and on GSEU, at the moment, beats a record of 49.1%, while long-term unemployment is at 72%, we are currently confronting the Greek people by discussing the PSE for at least the last 14 months. I am not saying that these matters are not important, I am not saying that they should not be discussed. People are hanging from our lips. Workers at television stations are waiting to see what is going to happen with the St.E., what will happen with our decisions here, so that they can look at theirs tomorrow, if and if they continue to work. We're talking about at least two thousand workers. We are now saying that if we come back to the previous legislative framework before the famous 'Pappa Law', as we are currently sitting and discussing, we are coming into an iniquity system. It is like saying that before - and apologise for the report - Mr Alfouzos was bad, and now he is getting good, that there are no problems with payments before any television station, and now with the new legislative framework, all officials will be paid on time and there will be a class there too. This is not a solution, at least against us in the Central Association. There must be one way to make all channels debt arrangements. The four are unacceptable. So far, we have seen a sloppiness and cannot go any further and go on like this. That is why we are discussing the abolition and withdrawal of the law as a whole, although Mrs Kozobol has referred to it and said why, while we have voted for articles of the law, and quite rightly, it is not all the articles that are unconstitutional, but we do not know which of the articles will be judged constitutionally and we must also await the final decision and the conclusion of the Council of State, for that reason and for the consensus which we are all discussing here for consensus, that the so-called law should come back with all its provisions, to proceed with the establishment of the PPE.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u512	He's voted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u513	He's voted, yes. Let us move on to an amendment. Not only the two articles. Eliminate, withdraw the law. Then, on the basis of what will happen with the Council of State, what will be judged to be unconstitutional and what is not, to move on to new amendments and to a new draft law agreed by everyone. You all consent here, we'll talk about the faces from which the ERR will be formed. We have reached five meetings, and we have completed and gone for the sixth, and as everything shows, the sixth will be led to a shipwreck. What for? Because right now, egos come in and one draws the rope on one side and the other pulls the rope on the other side. That is why we are saying in the part of the consensus, which we too want to agree on, to support the candidacy set by the New Democracy. Not because we want to go with the New Democracy. Because we've heard that too now. So far we've been with SYRIZA. Suddenly, because we said the day before yesterday 'no' to the PSE, we went with the New Democracy. We're not a ball, ladies and gentlemen. We are at the centre, we are the regulator of consensus on our part, and we will have to go ahead with that logic. We are talking at the moment about the fact that there is something other oxymobile: the 258 million you say and you bronze that they will go to vulnerable groups, when, on the basis of BSE and the assessment it has made, it will be lost one and a half billion by closing the channels that you are currently trying to bring. In fact, it is gratifying that the infamous amendment has not been tabled and that the President of Parliament has come and has not allowed the interim amendment to be put in place. Overdue debt reaches 225 billion, reaches 128% of GDP. At the moment, the problems are much more important than if the National Broadcasting Council is to be established, but we certainly need to move forward throughout the whole establishment of the independent authorities. Four have been formed. Let's not take any more time. Let's all get in with each other and not pull the rope on one side and the other on the other. That is why we say that you should withdraw the law and let the president proposed by the New Democracy enter. You agree with the members. We don't have a problem. We don't care who's gonna be president and who's vice president. Assent to be. Do not go to the Conference of Presidents each time with a list and at the end the people who are in it are exposed, because they go in and out and change. To have a preconsultation so that this independent authority can finally be introduced. Otherwise you will perpetuate this whole story and not only will there be no consensus, there will be no pressure on the people to vote and the others will not legislate. That is not the solution, ladies and gentlemen. I would ask you, too, to look at the matter a little warmer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u514	We thank Mr Marios Georgiadis, Member of the Centro Association. Mr Constantine Karamanlis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u515	Thank you, Mr President. I will deal more with Amendment No 793 to No 4412/2016. Before I do, however, you will allow me to say a few words about the wider debate we have in the Greek Parliament today on the amendments that Mr Pappas has put forward. They've heard interesting opinions. I'll agree with a number of previous speakers that it's good that tons don't go up. What I think everyone sees is that the conditions for reaching consensus on the issue of television licences are not nonexistent. This is because the proposals of the Officerate, both for persons and for institutional arrangements, have opened the way. The government seems to have accepted a new reality. It is therefore in her power to take the next step, to go further, to enter a class on the television field, which I think many Members from all the sides of this House want, not to have arbitraryness and, like other Members, have said, with the big problems. But what I think we have to say is that, unfortunately, the government receives defeats everywhere: the economy is at an absolute cost in Europe, it is obvious that we are isolated, you have even put it with the Church, and now you are attacking the institutions of justice. It is dangerous for a government not to recognize its mistakes. We shall now go to Amendment 739 tabled by Mr Chakalotos and Mr Stathakis. Before entering the amendment, which is a little technical, you will allow me to make a reference to No 4412/2016. Over two months have passed since the law was passed by the Greek Parliament. However, this law does not apply today. Since the beginning of September, the contracting authorities have not really known what is happening. In simple terms, all public works auctions have been frozen, because the government has simply not made sure that the working parties and the relevant committees of the Ministry are set up in order to draw up the draft ministerial decisions. Result? Because of the absence of secondary law on the new law, they have, as we have said, frozen the tenders for public works. This means that investments go back, that absorption in the ESRB is delaying and we will lose at least six months. So this is an anti-development delay and shows the sloppyness with which you legislate. Here you will allow me to say that the construction industry contributes directly and indirectly to 22% of the taxes collected by the Greek State. For each euro spent in the construction sector, € 1.8 is added to GDP. The participation of the construction industry is, however, at a low age of 16, as only 2% of GDP is approached. So it would be a good thing at the very last hour for the government to realize the damage that has been done. It is good for the Minister for Infrastructure, Mr Spirtzis, not to give answers which have no reality and to listen to both the regions and all the municipalities of the country, who are complaining about the "frozen" projects. We shall now proceed to Amendment No 739. You are actually energizing provisions that you abolished under Law 4412, and you are doing so in a way that makes no sense. So, you are again energising internal regulations of the above companies, i.e. the Hellenic Tourist Real Estate Fund and the CFS fund that you have abolished. Therefore, you will be able to derogate from both the "TURISTICS" and the "UFO" above and below the financial limits laid down. We can understand that. After all, by the same law you give the possibility of derogating from contracts and awards to the thresholds. I must remind you here that you have brought Law 4412 in order to harmonise our national legislation with the corresponding European legislation. For above these limits, however, European legislation and European directives apply, and that is clear. So you come here today and ask for a derogation for the excesses and the 'TURISTICS' for awards and contracts above the thresholds, and, as you say, in any case, the relevant legislation of the European Union. Here is something that is blurred. Derogation above the limits while complying with European legislation is an identological, fascist and contradictory one. European legislation and regulations only apply above the limits, with the derogations they define. It is therefore clear that once again you are legislating in a way extremely roughly, which will cause you too many problems. For some time now, then, we have warned you that this law that you have passed on to public procurement will cause you a number of problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u516	Thank you Mr Constantine Karamanlis, Member of the New Democracy. Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou, Member of the Democratic Association, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u517	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, the President of Parliament today, but also at the Conference of Presidents, told us that the decision of the Council of State has produced political results. Then, of course, as other colleagues did, he inquired of the Democratic Reconciliation, because we talked about government political defeats. For the decision of the Council of State as such? But in any European country, in any civilised country a decision by the Court of Cassation would simply have the effect of canceling the administrative act and declaring a law unconstitutional. Is that why the political defeat was? Oh, no. There was political defeat, ladies and gentlemen, because you have caused it yourself. As I do not want to go into judgments, I will read immediately after the decision of the Council of State some comments from the Government. I'm not talking about the names, because I think we should go consensually. 'We have a war on strife', one Minister. "Fight with lawlessness", the other Minister. "An anti-constitutional is the S.E.," the third said. ‘Government coup’. In fact, we have heard that from a competent Minister. ‘The S.H.E. He made the law unconstitutional, to save the canals and get the money from the children's stations, to give it to them" and more, much more. Is that respect for the judgment of justice and that you did not politicize the judgment of justice? Were you in the mood to comply? Oh, no. This was a totalitarian attack on justice, on political opponents, on institutions, on judges themselves. Politics defeat? Despite the initial warnings to the judges, the exhortations - I am unthinkable - of the Prime Minister, the threats, the brutal blackmails against the judges, the disciplinary persecutions, the operation of the keyhole, ladies and gentlemen, who do not honour the Greek political order, the judges of the Council of State dared to judge in the Constitution and declare the law unconstitutional. The size of political defeat, however, of the government and the failed attempt to strangle the pluralism of information with its unconstitutional competition has brought it much confusion. What happened Monday then? Simple. Retreat, ladies and gentlemen, of SYRIZA and of the Independent Greeks. You have retreated and acceded to the position that we have proposed from the outset. Not now, since October 2015, the Democratic Reconciliation had done so. Since October 2015, we have been telling you “all responsibilities of authorisation to the PSE”. That's what came out. You have been forced with the help of the President of the Parliament, who has undertaken to normalise things, to join this post and to give full responsibility to the National Broadcasting Council. That's why we're telling you. Complete the adjustment now because we cannot agree that Article 2A is suspended. Article 2A is repealed. It should be abolished. We are also asking you to do this at the very first moment by the Conference of Presidents. We are telling you that, in the state that is the credibility of the government today, the term'repealing' is all that can lead us to a consensus. Such a move can lead to a more general finding of a common place for the new National Broadcasting Council. So listen to me. It was felt to the citizens that this was a matter of political defeat. You know what? The rule of authoritarianism first works in the heart and minds of the people and then in its political choice and political crisis. So that's where you lost. Since this is the case, since steps have been taken at the Conference of Presidents, since, on the other hand, proposals have been made today by the Democratic Incorporation and Mr Lappas - has said so before - did Mr Lovers make them immediately an amendment, which the Minister accepted, for the fact that he now needs an opinion on the entire authorisation procedure, if all of this has been done, would you mind the last step, which is to replace the term'suspended' by the term'repealed'? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I would ask for a minimum of tolerance, Mr President. I do not think it gives the political management of the issue that you want to do. So we suggest you move on to the next step. This will close the adventure of the law that you caused from October 2015 until today. You arrived a few weeks ago threatening to close the channels in five days. Spasmist moves. It's closed. In order to close this issue, you must also conclude the last step, namely, that you have also reached the replacement of the term. We also said in the Conference of Presidents that Article 2A is not just Article 2A. There are reflections of unconstitutionality both in Article 2 and in other articles of L.4339. I'm ending up to make it clear. All responsibilities for channel licensing at the National Broadcasting Council. Complete harmonisation of Law4339 with the decision to come. Because what we are forgetting, and it has not been heard by the Congress at all, is that, when the decision is published, you are obliged to vote for a new law in order to be the new law adapted to what the Council of State will tell you that it is unconstitutional. This also requires that you take a Monday's initiative, a compositional initiative. Composition means mutual retreat. That is why I am telling you, take the step, because this is a prerequisite for us in certain cases of consensus, which we should recognise in the final decision. We cannot go to the new composition without having finished with the tails of 2A, 2 paragraph 4 etc., in that sense. I think that the persons who should be chosen in the new PSE should be persons who can respond to this role, be persons of consent, be persons of composition. From there on, everyone lifted into necessity, because the New Democracy made the same way, came to our position as we said from the beginning: "Come to agree with the PSE and give all the responsibilities to the PSE." That's what he did. The next step is too small, Minister. It is a step, however, that gives political direction. You know what? I don't know how we're gonna be on Monday and I don't know who's gonna take this job on Monday. I know one thing: to complete the situation, in order to complete the consensus, there must be conditions which must be met today. That is why I say to you that you should change the term'suspended' in the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u518	Thank you, Mr. Papatheodorou. Mrs Fotini Vakis, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor. To beg for consistency in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u519	With a little tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u520	Not until all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u521	No, not at all, Mr President. Everyone had a little tolerance. Ladies and gentlemen, on Monday, the Conference of Presidents has been fruitless for the sixth time, although there has been a desire for consensus from some parties and a white smoke would come out, if you have not been patient, colleagues of the Officerial Vice-President, once again, to set up an independent authority. So a climate of consensus, which has been positively reflected in the public sphere, has once again been poisoned by the well-known: or PSE or withdrawal of the law. So the legal scientist and the political scientist of the future will find plenty of material to describe, if not an institutional one, not to say institutional diversion, a institutional paradox. What's that? The demonstration of constitutional disobedience, the non-compliance with the constitutional obligation to establish an independent authority as a means of political blackmail, to withdraw the whole of a law passed by the majority. And vice versa: You have taken up an article which was retrospectively retrospective and dictated by an urgent need, and a competition should finally take place after twenty-seven years, despite the non-forming of the PSE, for which you are solely responsible. It is an inalienable right for everyone to disagree with a law. It is his inalienable right to protest against the law. It is his right to make public criticism and appeal to the court as well. However, it is unprecedented to use the constitutional obligation to establish an independent authority as a siege of withdrawal in the whole of a passive law. Do you realize what would happen if the same were done for every law passed by the Greek state? You judge the odds yourself when you resign for institutional decay, for lawlessness, and so on, ladies and gentlemen. You have speeded up applauding her, as you call her, demolition of the Pappa law. Does the Council of State repeal laws? As far as I know, only regulatory provisions are abolished. In this respect, it also considered, in the light of leakages of anti-constitutional powers, the transfer of powers by an authority, which does not exist in the Secretariat-General. In other words, L.4339 remains in force and the exact decision of the Council of State and the reasoning has not been formally adopted because - you know that much better than I do Parliament's lawyers - 'clearing a decision' is 'written and issued'. And right now, we are all talking about the basis of a fame and illegal leaks. Ladies and gentlemen, the crisis of the unconstitutionality of this article, which involves the cancellation of the competition that was your desire, also creates another legal vacuum or paradox: in 2010 the Council of State considered the channels to be unconstitutional. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So if the EPP bypass is unconstitutional, then an unconstitutional one should be lifted. We'll either return to the former regime or build a National Broadcasting Council. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So not consent to the next Conference of Presidents will mean what? Does it mean returning to the former regime of illegality and the hijacking of a public good? The non-consent will confirm that you are politicizing the demands of the canalarchs. The non-confidentiality will be equivalent to an overriding occupation of public frequencies, to the harm of the Greek public, the Greek people, who paid for by the banks' bloodshoots, super-loans of loans received with no guarantees, thanks to the political support and immunity that some people have lost, more equal to the equals for communal exchanges. Excessive loans that were paradoxically multiplying - the same time that unemployed journalists were multiplying in the media, for which at the time neither thought nor tears were made - and fled to tax havens. Because for the reason... In fact, when it was in full composition once, why did no one ever start a licensing procedure? You have moved, New Democracy, to table a proposal for a law, your own proposal, for the licensing of stations. Where were you twenty-seven years, ladies and gentlemen, and what is the different spirit and philosophy of this, when simply copying Law4339, with two exceptions, of course, of your policy? You are proposing that the threshold should be abolished in the channels, while the Pappa Act places as a minimum four hundred full-time workers. And nights, then, and crocodiles the tears for the workers, because they have been diagnosed for so many years for the thousands of workers made redundant by the media. Whilst fish for black and undeclared work, for extortional atomic contracts, for tangles, for precariousness, grinding under the glow of studios and the glamorous telestars of the past 20.00s, who, in the name of what pluralism - which you constantly call - terrorized an entire people, sprinkled prices and suspicions, trampled human dignity? Because now your interest in objective, unbundled and unbiased information about ethics has been late and this is twenty-seven years too. You know, pluralism doesn't guarantee him the number of channels. You may have eight channels and you have a consistently repetitive and monotonous repetitive view and an update that degenerates into propaganda. Now for pluralism. Do you believe in the name of pluralism, after the "black" to the ERT? I wonder why? For DIGEA's competition for 18 million in fifteen years, or to silence SYRIZA's lips for ever, as we have heard recently?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u522	Complete your thoughts, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u523	I'm done. Do you object to the auction contest, do you, the market defenders, the ones who humiliate the market? The market spoke: 200 fifty-five million for socially vulnerable groups.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u524	Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u525	Yes, I shall, Mr President. I am therefore calling for a consensus and, finally, for our constitutional obligation to be met and for the National Broadcasting Council to be set up, for the tone to fall, for all this to be stopped on an undemocratic diversion. Because you know what? The work of the institutions is undemocratic diversion, it is when the Constitution makes the bed of the Profrust, in which you cut and sew micro-political and micro-participatory purposes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] So let us assume our responsibilities on Monday, not only against the Constitution, but against both the rule of law and democracy and the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u526	Thank you, Mrs. Fotini Vaki, SYRIZA Parliamentary. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, thirty-one students and students and four of their educational attendants from the General High School of Kyparissia. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Panagiotis Metarakis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u527	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government at last needs to understand that the Pappa law was seen as unconstitutional and therefore has to be withdrawn. This is the constitutional right solution, which will ultimately lead to what we all want in the Chamber, the licensing of the channels, the authorisation of rules, the authorisation of transparency, the authorisation of means, as imposed by the Constitution for the National Broadcasting Council, and in favour of the public interest, as a result of revenues for the Greek State, as generated revenues of 368 million, the management of the digital spectrum through the tenders that the previous government has made for both the spectrum given to mobile telephony and the spectrum given to 'DIGEA', which is much greater than what the government is saying today that it will receive for a total period of ten years. Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, but also the previous colleague spoke of the majority right, the blackmailing of the minority and the constitutional obligation that we all have in this Chamber, as required by the Rules of Procedure, that four-fifths should elect members of the National Broadcasting Council. An obligation, however, which presupposes that the process of media communication is carried out in accordance with the Constitution. When we oppose the Constitution, as the Council of State decided - and of course we all expect with interest to see the details of the decision, that is, what the minority also said, which seems to agree as a rule to unconstitutionality - is causing problems. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, hypocrisy sometimes goes over in this Chamber. The most recent example of an opposition officer who has not respected, as he has said today, its constitutional obligation to contribute to consensus solutions was, as our Parliamentary representative, Mr Dendias, the fact that the President of the Hellenic Republic was not elected in the previous period, when the party of the opposition officer did not disagree with the face, but did not propose a person, did not agree with any discussion, because all that was intended to take advantage of a constitutional procedure, which - rightly so - seeks an increased majority for the election of the President of the Republic as a means of imposing consensus. He took advantage of it to achieve party purposes. So hypocrisy runs out here. As far as Amendment 739 is concerned, with regard to public procurement, Mr Karamanlis said. It is clear that there is a reluctance on the part of the government as well as on public procurement, which has not yet been adopted, so that public procurement has been frozen. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that we all understand in this Chamber what the consequences are for the national economy, which, from the inability of the administration to adopt regulatory acts, do not exist in public procurement. But there was also a sluggishness in the matter of the superstition. Finally, do you know what you're doing with this amendment? You put all the properties of the Greek state, you put all the property of the public in TIAD rules. When we told you that you wanted to sell everything without control, without rules, this amendment today confirms it. Do you put it all without public procurement rules, in terms of the management of public assets, so that - who? - the superstition, which we do not control, without applying rules that we impose, to manage public property. Of course we are voting against this amendment. I would like to believe that the whole Chamber will vote against this amendment if you believe that Parliament should impose rules on the management of public money. A number of other colleagues have referred to the question of the committee of inquiry. I'm watching a hurry to get a find. Several have been mentioned, but to see what has been done so far in the Committee of Inquiry. As far as the parties are concerned, it is clear from the findings submitted so far that all parties, both SYRIZA and New Democracy and PASOK, received loans with the same guarantees. They received loans with the same guarantees, which were judged in their time of submission. Where there are shadows of opacity - and they have appeared, ladies and gentlemen, in the debate on the committee of inquiry - they do not concern this wing of the House. They are related to other wings, which use offshore to finance their activities. In closing, SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman said that Greece is enslaved and must be freed. In the end, however, with your own policies, the country has re-entered a memorandum and probably re-entered into a memorandum. Because, despite the Prime Minister's optimism today at the Arab-Greek meeting that took place in Athens, where he talked about a success story much larger than has ever been said, the reality is that the unemployed and the pensioners, to whom you referred, have lost all hope. The pensioners are on the way and burning the Katorugalos letters, they see the subsidiary of this month not coming and, worst of all, they slowly realize that if we hadn't had the repatriations in 2015, pensions would not have been cut today. The unemployed, do you know what they see, ladies and gentlemen? That no new investment comes into this country. You are implementing the investments of the period 2012-2015, the Greek, the PPA, the regional airports, the EPA, projects that you denounced in this Chamber and, finally, today you come to implement them, but you did not bring any new work. You cannot give hope to this world and, ultimately, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are the oldest we have seen in recent years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u528	Thank you to the Member of the New Democracy Mr Metarakis. SYRIZA MP Anastasia Gara has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u529	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me not to comment on the pension cut expressed by the representative of the New Democracy, because not only would we have had a pension cut, but we would have had the fifteenth and twenty-five cuts that you had already agreed and already signed. But let us go to the discussion on the licensing of the television field, the licensing of channels. I don't know in five or six minutes how you can fit a 30-year-old conversation, let alone the debate over the past few months. So I am watching, as we are all watching, this debate, and I often laugh - to tell you the truth - and I sometimes draw my hair from the poverty of political arguments, especially the self-references of counter-population. But to speak with open papers, because there are some people here who want to speak openly and talk about it all. I won't get into very specific things. But I shall speak about the general picture and say that I see two very distinctive things in the debate over the last few months. The first is that, obviously, the opposition is not interested in helping to create a legitimate and sound television scenery. But the issue is being taken advantage of as a field, in order to hit the government, by rendering it traits of lawlessness, unconstitutionality and authoritarianism. In fact, they speak of authoritarianism by those who at one night closed down the ERT and fired thousands of employees who made themselves available to others, in the name of their democracy, always! Indeed, it is of particular interest today, as a representative of the New Democracy, to place Mr Kedicoglou. We are therefore facing an Opposition, which has no political account in recent months, has nothing to suggest that the country should leave the crisis or has not yet been presented to us, has not been told or understood. However, the SYRIZA - ANEL government has committed itself to the Greek people and is doing so every day for full legitimacy in all fields. But the answer to counterpopulation is blackmail, even invoking the Constitution and - listen, listen! - the independent authorities. Let's go see them, though, one. Is it a constitutional requirement for the National Broadcasting Council to be set up? It is. Is New Democracy serving this check? Oh, no. So who respects the Constitution? Is N.4339 a constitutional one? That's what S.T.'s decision means, as far as we're concerned. Will the law be implemented? No more sacrifice. Is it anti-constitutional to add, after all the blackmails and obstacles imposed by the Qualified Opposition, to transfer specific responsibilities from the ERR to the General Secretariat of Communication for just one time? That's what the information says from the decision of the Council of State, because we still don't have a registration decision. In practice, however, Article 2A has been abolished because this first time it has passed, a competition has taken place. However, we are the ones who have changed it. But then we found a new argument. Invoke legality and ask as a prerequisite for a PPP to withdraw the Pappa law. I wonder how legal and constitutional it is to ask for a law that is in force, is it constitutional and has been passed in this House, with a large majority of, at least, five parties? Which is a constitutionalist! Who's a democratic! Do we have or do we have a democratically elected parliament? Unless, in your view of legality, you are destroying both our function and the decisions of the House. Questions, of course, multiply in my mind. The New Democracy speaks of legitimacy. Has the President legally made you savage with "SIEMENS"? Did he legally get the loan for his newspaper? You've legally operated the structures of the state all these years? You're right and you're right. You've made your ruffles? Did you legally extend the temporary channel permits every year? Did you legally charge the country and the Greek people? For legal deeds, your executives go through the D.A.'s door every day? You're right. You're right. You're a slut in the country, aren't you? Is the contractors legitimate in friends, for works that have not yet been delivered? Legal loans to your parties? Is the ‘DIGEA’ competition that you are burning in the public interest? Ask a man out what he remembers from your administration in the years 2004-2009. With one word: scandals. I was a young journalist, a lot of work we had every month and a scandal. You, too, invoke legitimacy and morality. Let's go back to the licenses. Since you are so respectful of the Constitution and the laws, why have you done nothing after the decision of the Council of State in 2010 on anti-constitutionalism in the television field that you have created? Now, all of a sudden, we're sceptical. You're asking for the withdrawal of Law 4339. Good. Laws, gentlemen, change by laws. Bring a law, however, to regulate the television field and come here and talk about it. You have presented a framework, you say. It is a framework that replicates the law already adopted, with small differences, mainly concerning workers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Answer clearly. You want there to be legal, licensed channels? You want a competition? Do you want there to be legislative protection for workers? Do you want them to pay a price for the public good called frequency? You want to pay like all companies and taxpayers, or do you want channels operating in air, as you have been operating for so many years, steep air. So bring a law, let's talk about it. Ladies and gentlemen, very briefly on the second point that I have announced.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u530	Finish, slow down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u531	I will slowly conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. You're accusing us of serving interests. I'm going to say it reluctantly. Yeah, we all serve interests. We serve the interests of the workers. We serve the public interest, the healthy business, the interests of citizens, democracy, the Greek people. We serve the law. We are serving the people's order to strike the conflict and to set up a serious, modern and European state. How about you? You serve the interests of the economic, political and mediatic elite, the interests of the canalarchs, lamemen, interactivity, chair and survival. Because even the refusal to set up the PSE hides your interests behind it. It is not just immunity to pay their obligations. It is also the preservation of the immunity that prevails, the collapse of the Greek language, the dismantling and the dismantling of persons and, above all, the trafficking of false news. And that's what's of interest to you, because only with the support of the media with lies can you survive.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u532	Please complete your thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u533	I'll be done. I'm asking. You, who respect the Constitution, will continue to applaud this immunity? Will you insist on your unconstitutional attitude? The Parliament and the Greek people are waiting for an answer in here. And remember. This government and we parliamentarians are not going to be blackmailed with any obstacles and anyone who wants to continue non-democracy and unconstitutionality and non-legality in that country. We are a parliament which is democratically elected and we must stand up to the circumstances. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u534	Thank you, Mrs. Gara, SYRIZA Parliament. Mr Dannelis, Member of the European Parliament from the River.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u535	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since Mr Pappa's morning position from this step forward - which was, of course, quite another wavelength of his morning interview with SKAI - we welcome two conditions, two elements, which are tragically inadequacy in our public life: self-awareness and self-criticism. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not get tired of reminding ourselves that, last March, when we discussed the re-establishment of the ERT, we at Potami were the ones who mentioned the absolute priority of getting rid of an elbow, which bears the backs of the political system as a whole. It was an ideal chance then. We said the PSE must be reconstituted, because it is a prerequisite for the reorganisation and regulation of the broadcasting landscape. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you have lost an historic opportunity to believe, at last, the breaking of the existing sinful triangle of interlocutory media - a political system - banks. You have lost the historic opportunity to do things like the Constitution predicted, as the constitutional legislator has predicted, that it is the National Broadcasting Council that is responsible for all this. Unfortunately, you preferred legislative pirates, which led to the known adventures and the current traumatic ending, which I do not need to recount. I would like to say here that this is the first time that such public interest has been observed for an independent authority and especially for the National Broadcasting Council. We must remember here that the independent authorities are nothing more, too the most advanced tool of a mature democracy. It is the independent authorities that ensure a very large consensus and majority - of the 4/5 that our constitutional legislator, not by accident - provides for very critical issues and sensitive areas of the public sphere. We want the guarantee of an independent authority, so that we do not accept the tightening, the dependence of the executive of these critical areas of public life. I am referring to the past of the course of the National Broadcasting Council - we have to be clear, because there is also a more general hypocrisy - because, unfortunately, we have not been happy to see that the compositions of the EPP administrations have taken those critical initiatives to regulate the broadcasting landscape, to deal with the pathogens, which have been working all over the time. So today, after all this traumatic - I'm saying again - course and making a whole turn of eighty degrees, we're back to point zero. Today it is crucial and it is a challenge for the whole political system, the political parties of the Greek Parliament, to lead to a solution that is consensual, a solution that is acceptable to everyone, so that, finally, this constitutional unrest can be lifted. This cannot be done unless the two major parties decide that there must be a consensus. On Monday, we will have this effort once more, and until then we must have come to an end. Until then, the conditions for this consensus must have been created. I appeal to the government. I have heard the interpretation of my dear colleague, Mr Lappa, in relation to the first amendment, as to why the'suspension' remains, not'repeal'. I think we're talking about a shirt empty. It doesn't matter. In any case, the provision to which this amendment refers has been swallowed by the Council of State. In any case, there are multiple statements that no coup attempts will be made to use this mid-term until the decision has been cleaned up. But precisely because this amendment could not have been even come, I insist until the last minute, so as a step of good intention, that the'suspension' should be replaced by'repeal'. I'm closing, saying it's a bet for all of us. I would remind you that this single, to which I referred a little while ago, that the political system as a whole is involved over time in interactive procedures, is a historic opportunity this time to leave our backs, because we are not all the same. Having elected the National Broadcasting Council, with a composition that can meet the characteristics of the constitutional legislature for the members that will make it up, then we will have a debate on how we ensure pluralism in the information society, how we ensure revenue for the public funds - and not just 250 million, to which Mr Pappas referred, but much more - how we guarantee jobs and how we, of course, ensure the independence of information, in relation to the executive power in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u536	Thank you, Mr. Spyros Danellis, Member from the River. Mr Marios Katsis, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor. Get Mr. Vassilis Ashes ready then.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u537	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate must be a substantive debate, which should work and take us a step further. I would first like to mention the current situation, the current situation in the broadcasting landscape, and how it has been shaped. Firstly, the existing status of television stations in Greece is illegal and this is confirmed by the CCT. by decision of 2010. Secondly, the term of office of members of the National Broadcasting Council has expired, with an opinion of the Legal Council of the State and with decisions of the Council of State. Proof of this is that the fines of the PSE to the channels for non-compliance were never paid. Because the offenders objected, on the grounds that they had no legal recommendation for the EPP, which imposed the fine. So at the moment that we are talking about the television scene there is lawlessness, immunity and chaos, a situation which offends all of us and the state as a whole. We have an illegal operating regime because twenty-seven years are not holding a tender for the licence and the extension of provisional authorisations, as you have done for twenty-seven years with the extensions of a basilopita. We have attempted, in terms of transparency and of public interest, to put order on a competition through the General Secretariat of Information, because the opposition blocked the recommendation of the PSE. After considering the provisional arrangements in force before, the S.H.E. also considered unconstitutional and the amendment incorporated into Law 4339 as Article 2A concerning the transfer of powers. Where are we today? We are at a stage when the opposition is forging behind a specific decision of the S.H.E., and it has clearly ignored the decisions of the S.H.E., concerning the regulation of the broadcasting landscape. They accused us of interference in the work of justice. Who? Mr. Georgiadis, who called publicly mad the honorable members of the S.H.E., Mr. Athanasios and Mr. Venizelos, who, by the wicked man, interpreted the reasoning of the S.H.E.'s decision. from leaks, even before she was extradited, which says that all of us are unconstitutional, as if they know something that we all ignore. We, even though we criticised the S.H.E.'s decision, are fully in line with the decisions and respect them. Both the 2010 decision, because the law finally came - there was no law on authorisation - and the 2016 decision with the two amendments today, which restore responsibilities. However, it is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that the independent authorities apply the law and do not legislate, as is also the case, and that the state has continued and does not function vacantly, in any case. We have come to the debate today, taking steps towards convergence, so that we can finally break the deadlock and go further. This is the direction in which the amendment comes with the suspension of the application of the 2A, which is where the change in the EPP's assent to the number is concerned. Since last October 2015, which was passed by L.4339, until today, after many incidents, we have two distillates, two acquired, indiscriminately in the consciousness of the world, for which we are proud to have won them as government. First acquis. Everyone now agrees that a tendering procedure should be carried out and that legal authorisations should be granted by the ERC, which should oversee legality, compliance with fairness and quality rules. To put an end to the regime of lawlessness and immunity. Adopted by the Commission on 18 December. Funds are available to pay those granted to them a public asset. There are government revenues for twenty-seven years and responsibilities, and there is an opportunity to attract investment in the media sector, since everyone is talking about investment. Redistribution investment, however, since the price has been calculated for social needs. With this as data, ladies and gentlemen of Officerial Response, and following the consensus reached at the Conference of Presidents by Elassona Opposition in most of the articles of Law 4339, in the original version of October, the burden falls on you. We ask you openly: Do you want to join in the public interest and your constitutional obligations, yes or no? Do you want television channels running with legality, yes or no? Do you want to provide for workers, yes or no? Do you want there to be as high a price as possible for the award of the public good by tendering, yes or no? I hope that the answers today and with your vote here in Parliament will be clearly affirmed. It is really an opportunity for the political system to take steps forward and to regain the authority of political and democratic institutions against strong interests. In conclusion, I would like to say that I firmly believe that all this activation in action, on the basis of the regulation of the broadcasting landscape, the three distinct powers, the independent authorities, and the committee set up to monitor the legality of loans from SMEs and parties are an awakening of democracy. Democracy is at work by a lethargy that had imposed on it the triangle of interlocutory, making its institutions seemingly active, but not essentially. This incision could only be brought to the country by the left, since the civilian personnel who went bankrupt the country were part of this triangle. As the Minister, Mr Pappas, said, it is time for consent and for the look to be in the future. To set up a strong and independent ETF, which we will simply allow to conduct by conducting a tender, which controls compliance with the rules of operation and fairness, for the benefit of the citizen and not as a arbitrator of interests. We have a duty to the new generation, to which I belong, to deliver the good of informing crystal clear of suspicion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u538	Thank you, Mr. Katsey. Mr. Vassilis Kokalis, Member of the Independent Greeks, has the floor for five minutes. After Mr Kokalis, the last speakers are Mr Theocharis and Mr Nicholas. Then for thirty seconds, Mr. Kegeroglu will speak, Mr. Loverdos will follow and the ministers will speak and we will close.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u539	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have had the honour of being rapporteur to N.4339/2015 on the part of my party. When we voted for this law, we knew very well that the reactions would be many. We knew very well that the reactions would be tough. But what was the majority’s will in October 2015? The Minister of State recommended a law according to which a class is indeed in the television scenery. You will allow me to make two time divisions: October 2015 and February 2016. Let me remind you, first of all, that in October 2015 the government majority passed a law, Law No.4339. Some articles of the law were also passed by other parties. In particular, Article 1 concerning the licensing by the National Broadcasting Council was voted on both by the PASOK and the Central Association. Article 2 was only voted on by the Centroon Association. Article 5, the obligation to name shares, was voted only on by the Central Association. Article 6, concerning the incompatibility, was adopted by the PASOK and the Central Association. Article 7 was passed by both the PASOK and the Potami and the Centron Association. Article 10, conditions of participation, was adopted only by the PASOK, in addition. Article 12, pre-selection for participation, was passed by both the PASOK and the Potami. In Article 13, a tendering procedure was adopted by the Association of Centres only. Article 14 was passed by both the river and the PASOK. Article 15, on grounds of withdrawal of licences, was adopted only by the PASOK. Article 16 was passed by the PASOK and the River. The sixteen articles on television licences were adopted by nine out of sixteen from PASOK, eight from the Central Association and five from Potami. What did that law provide for in October 2015? He predicted the contest would be made by the National Broadcasting Council. Right this far? That's right. It's been five months and February 2016. The law was in danger of not directly applying it. The government's choices were two. Either it abolishes the law, once it cannot be implemented, or it goes beyond the obstacle to competition by the Minister, for only one time. With Article 2A comes the S.T.E. and, according to information, it always considers that this Article 2A is unconstitutional. We are now coming to political hypocrisy from New Democracy, because PASOK and the Potami are moving smartly. They're asking to cancel the law. I'm sorry, but it's at least stupid. Are you kidding us? Firstly, because, with the proposal you have presented, you copy nine provisions of Law 4339. Who are these? Article 2, concerning the duration of licences, Article 3, legal form of candidates, Article 6, with four paragraphs on 'positively', Article 10, with three paragraphs on the necessary supporting documents. Secondly, L.4339 is the improvement of your law, Law 4070/2012. It's foolish to insist on it being abolished. It is truly foolish when almost half of the provisions of Law 4339 are - it says the headline of Law 4339 - an amendment to Law 4070/2012 that you, the PASOK and the LAOS vote. Do you think that the law, which some of its provisions, firstly, you copy and, secondly, is at an earlier stage and yours, by Law 4070/2012? I'm sorry, you have to get together, you're being exposed by asking for this law to be abolished. This possibility the government had it in February 2016, when there was really a dead end. Then either we had to abolish the law or overcome the barrier from the non-recommendation of the PSE with 2A. Let's think - and this Greek people would know - the law was in danger of being inactive. People were asking: Why, Minister of State, have you introduced in October a law which spent four months and do not apply? Why, Mister of the Independent Greeks, have you passed a law which does not apply? Two options I had: Or suggest that I remove it at the time or overcome the obstacle, by awarding the contest to the Minister for the first time. Because the opponent was tough, he advertised this unconstitutionality. You know that also the benefits of polytens have been considered unconstitutional, but unfortunately the multitudes do not even have the fraudulents to show them. They don't!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u540	Please finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u541	Ladies and gentlemen, I am referring to PASOK and the Potami - congratulations on your attitude to the Conference of Presidents - we will not play with the words'suspension' or'repeal'. Since the decision has not been cleared, and we cannot tell S.H.I.E.L.D. ‘Do it in twenty days, in a month’, the right thing is ‘suspension’. That's why you're gonna capitalize it. Put your backs on, consent to the formation of the National Broadcasting Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u542	Thank you Mr Vassilis Kokalis, MP of the Independent Greeks. Mr Theocharis Theocharis, an Independent MEP, has the floor. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u543	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here because for twenty-seven years successive governments have allowed a status of immunity and interlocutory to perpetuate into one of the pillars of democracy. Let the Opposition admit it. But we are here, as a result of a strategy, morality, political and constitutional defeat of the coup d'état. Accept it, admit that you didn't fix anything, that you didn't want to fix anything. What are you telling us? How there used to be corruption and complications. Truly, the responsibilities of those who have ruled are great. That we couldn't appoint a National Broadcasting Council and transfer responsibility. That's a lie. You have dismantled the PSE by law, so that Mrs Constantopoulou's mother can leave, but above all as an alibi, to give Mr Pappa the responsibilities. What else are you telling us? You tell us the law was constitutional. That's a lie. The S.T.E. He overthrowed it, despite the blackmails and the ruffles you promised, and you finally got them wickedly back. You're a juror of violating the constitution, in which we all swore in here. You are also telling us that the procedure was perfect. That's a lie. You received a late guarantee, non-functional cameras that were not, according to the beam, 'from the outset' that were not checked and were not finally observed. You're telling us you hit corruption. That's a lie. With pastures that not even 50 euros have been paid and valued 100 million euros! That's how I'm becoming a businessman. With owners, playing the landscape, with the vicious Attica and Piraeus ready to borrow, stand by. Shame on you to say that. You're saying he needs a consensus. But you are blurring the consensus with this amendment brought by the Minister. You don't want that consensus. You say you took money from the rich and gave it to the poor. That's a lie. Channel money will be paid for by the poor paid workers in the channels, poor consumers, with expensive products. The money for the poor to give from the increase in public wages for 2017. Do not give it the increase and support the poor. You make politics, not justice. One more lie for you. I'll say it again. You are living a political, strategic, moral and constitutional defeat. Get your law back. He's unfair, ineffective, immoral. Professor Sofoulis wrote it to you. A law that does not allow a cooperative journalists to broadcast, if they qualify, is immoral. 'And what to bring?' will the Greek people ask us. A law that serves the principles of transparency, pluralism, which leads to sustainable channels, will promote culture and minimise corruption. Transparency. Each shareholder of the channels and the press must be nominal. Not offshore of the newspaper “HUY”. Really, who's behind Mr. Artemio? Tell us if you have the guts. Pluralism, not objective information. That doesn't exist, Mr. Paphie. He told us before. Opinion is not objective. We want a pluralism, so that all the opinions can be heard. The EPP must be required to give as many permits as technically possible. Sustainable channels. The annual cost of the licence must be the function of the advertising market. Promotion of culture. Obligations on content with Greek productions, documentaries and issues of interest to minorities or small groups. Combating corruption. Adopt a cap on the lending of channels so that businessmen can put their own funds. Publication of all state advertising expenditure and where it goes. Really, where is Mr. Drasakis in the debate today, promised us here, by this Step, that he would bring it, almost a year back? Ladies and gentlemen, while we are dealing - and I am ending - with the toys of Mr Pappas, in the real world what is happening? Because this whole media debate is very convenient. Pensioners see an ancillary of EUR 16 per month. The Lamia Hospital has not been operating since last week in the absence of anestheticologist. In refugee it all collapsed, and the resignations with complaints of corruption became an epidemic. Today the very worthy Mr. Vassilis Papadopoulos resigned. PPC borrows hundreds of millions of millions of customers and sells scandalally cheap electricity and is ready to collapse. OAED won't make it in 2017. Already breaks AKAE's "monster" to get out in 2016. You'll be cutting off pensions again, as I told you from this Step here when we discussed the ineffective Katorugalou law. Free professionals from 1 January will die from contributions and chains already take the whole retail. The fourth memorandum is ante portas and the debt debate goes after 2018. That is why you are dealing with the manipulation of judicial and fourth authority, the press. Because of course the Prime Minister has it in his pocket. Ladies and gentlemen, you have turned into mere applause by Mr Tsipras. All this doesn't hide the catastrophe you've brought. All polls already tell you. The Greek people will tell you soon in the poll. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u544	Thank you, Mr Theocharis Theocharis, Independent MEP. The last speaker is the Independent MP, Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u545	Thank you, Mr President. He was just taken down from the Step by an Independent who had chosen him as independent, but became a MP. We have jumped to these independents: independent constitutionalists proposed for Presidents of the Republic. Independent judges who become ministers. Independent parties. I read today in the centre-street newspaper "DIMMOCRATIA", the first page: "Skis" for the one that Mitsotakis proposed for the PSE". He's independent too. Who's this independent? This is what the centre-right newspaper says: It was found at the wheel of the Ice Arrow in 2015 at a historic but dark moment for the Supreme Court, as the former Minister of Finance, George Papaconstantinou, held his trial during his term of office for the Lagard list. The verdict, however, even today, is negatively commented on by many judges, as the former Minister was convicted of the violation of a document, despite the fact that the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, Mr. Xeni Demetriou, called for his conviction of felony. Of course, no one goes lost in this place. In fact, he says the gentleman, who was proposed by Mr Mitsotakis, should be president of the PSE. Why, Mr. Pappa, did you miss such a chance, a big opportunity?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u546	Mr. Voutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u547	It's Mr. Voutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u548	I listen very carefully.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u549	Oh, are you still waiting for him?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u550	I listen very carefully.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u551	Oh, good. So how had he become president? It says the centre-right newspaper: But Vangelis Venizelos proposed it. It says it here. He's going lost, too? No, of course not. These are the independent authorities we sit and we go crazy! These are the independent authorities who then recruit both parties and MPs. If that was what happened today and we said, "What does Mitsotakis want? Does he want him? Would he,' would the problems be solved? Will it be over? Is that what we're dealing with? Whenever he remembers it, he says: “It is not exactly that. It is also a little institutional. At last, ladies and gentlemen, the world has gone through with it. Let some people stop making virgins in the home of tolerance. Do you know how it can be an independent authority that its members are chosen by whom? From the Holy Spirit? Oh, no. He suggests, he says, that the Chief of Staff is here, and instantly he is independent, and we all have to accept it! But I also heard a colleague there from the late ones saying: 'Some judges dared' and said the number fourteen. So the other eleven, what is it? Are they the ignorant ones? Are the other 11? The other eleven judges, who did not accept that argument, what is it? Selled? They don't know, Mr. Loverdo, the Constitution? Haven't they read it? Are those people inexperienced? All right, now we're in agreement. So let's just go and see things. A lot has been heard here, indeed very interesting. Who cried that night, waiting for Mrs. Mandrou, what's her name, or anyone else? We see a known guy there, who's in one who was imposed on him by 74 million. Remember, Mr Loverdos, who had come to the Committee of Inquiry, a canalarch croissant said: 'I am a patriot, I owe nothing, I have not taken loans or owe taxes'? So on his channel, I see one and he puts the tears at the time the decision came out. It's a thrill, because the boss was gonna get away with it! Same thing, they had a party at the Faliro. It's a pleasure! Ladies and gentlemen, here, if some people think they're making fun of citizens, they're wrong. They're making fun of their faces! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And to me a little tolerance, Mr President, as you have shown to everyone. Today I was at the Labour Centre and there at a meeting I was asked to call a colleague because they see a committee of inquiry. It was Costas Javaras. I'm saying his name, 'cause I called him. And ask him, if you don't believe me, ladies and gentlemen, my fellow Members of the New Democracy, what they said there at the Labour Center in Athens to Costas Javarra for all of you who see you being servants of these oligarchs and what they said about your passing leader who, seeing them as they show him in the polls, thinks that what is happening today in America is not happening. Last week they called fourteen units in front of what Mrs. Clinton was and today there is a unit back. I'm closing this. Let's really test one for all: who are we going to go with. Each one with his vote will choose. Who's gonna be happy with the vote? We'll see, you'll tell me, tomorrow morning, who'll have a goat morning, who'll show the 20:00 note. But we know them from the good look and the reverse. We know them very well. So I listened to you, Mr Pappa, this morning to say something very interesting: 'It is not to the death of all of us moving from our positions'. It will be to the death of you, too, to drop the shield, as did some people who tried in the past few years. Because if they hadn't sold Kostas Karamanlis in that battle against pimpage rule, we wouldn't have lived all of what we've lived today. So you can do as many retreat as you want. You can put independent, the ones who go to Mr. Mitsotakis' party, the former presidents of the HR. Did you see them the other day? Everyone was there at the party. Put them on. Make them an independent authority. However, this independent authority will observe the law, which the Greek Parliament will vote on here, the people elected.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u552	Thank you, Mr. Nicholas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u553	Mr President, thank you too. I just wanted to say that the page was actually back. Whatever they do, I don't think there's any hope. However, from the moment on, I would like to say that as regards my immunity yesterday, some have been lured by the fact that an old post on twitter was being considered. It had nothing to do with that, and I say it for those who have been caught undisputed. They will find that there was neither a slander nor a homophobic comment, as some people say. But there was the testimony of a Greek citizen, a family man, a father of four children, who says he has the right to say what he thinks is the right model, what he thinks is his own I believe he should proclaim it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u554	Thank you. We will give the floor to Mr Kegeroglu for a minute, as he has tabled a parliamentary amendment, and then for a minute, also to Mr Loverdos, who wants to make a comment and we are done. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u555	Mr President, I would like to say very briefly that we are satisfied with the latest developments following the decision of the Council of State, which has really made progress in restoring the constitutional order in our country. We have talked about the victory of democracy, pluralism and the rule of law, and I think that is now understood by everyone. Of course, we understand the difficulty that Mr Papapas and the majority will have with this decision and the reversal of things, and it is difficult, of course, within a few days to "dives" and the decision of the CoR, but also the degrading decision, as Mr Karayannides said, of Mr Polydora. It takes more time and courage.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u556	But don't go to other issues. Please. Don't do a dentistry. Get to the point directly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u557	Yeah, I don't go to any other issues. I told you this morning, Minister, that it was a decent precipitation for what you did here. Indeed, I believe that, contrary to what you say in public to hear citizens. In 1986, I want to remind you of who the courageous political men are...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u558	Mr. Kegeroglu, it's not right what you're doing. In other words, you are making a general position and, indeed, a return to the past, when you have a parliamentary amendment, and I have only given you the floor for it in an absolute way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u559	No, I'll talk about her. In 1986, therefore, in the elections for the Municipality of Athens, PASOK was smittenly lost. Then the late Miltiadis Everett won. Andreas Papandreou went out and said: "The government won." Say, at least, democracy has been defeated, the rule of law has been defeated. Take an initiative like this. I think it'll be right. As for Mr. Nicolopoulou, I do not know if he knows that Dionysus Templera has made a statement about Mr. Koutromanos, but it doesn't matter that much. So who did you want to propose to the independent authority, Mr. Nicolopole, Kaloboka, and you're making such crises? Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u560	Mr. Kegeroglu, in what capacity do you place? As a parliamentary representative, as rapporteur? What exactly are you? Please. In fifteen seconds, you'll have to shut down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u561	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u562	Mr President, I close my position and have the responsibility of my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u563	It's not like that. I have given you the floor for the parliamentary amendment only. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u564	Sure. So I close by calling on the Minister of State not to give an alibi to the New Democracy for not forming the PSE, whether real or virtual - yes, you are alibiing and it seems as though you do not want it to be established - and the Minister, Mr Dritsa, to accept the amendment. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u565	You're disappointing me terriblely. You understand, in other words, what I want to say. To say the word "please the Minister", you placed the entire place, as if you were not required. Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u566	Of course, my fellow Member understands that I would never like to propose, or propose, or applaud any personality, that it has had a negative role to play in such a case. So, I understand that it's one of Mr. Kegeroglu's acquaintances. Mr. Kegeroglu, after all, said so. I referred to it by reading it exactly in today's newspaper publication. For those events Mr. Mitsotakis should probably ask his father and come back another time to talk here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u567	Thank you very much. Mr. Loverdos wants to clarify something, Minister. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u568	I address the Minister of State. There was a debate today and it had results. First of all, all the citizens who are following us and who will judge our vote to know that at the time of today's vote, we are voting on the fact that Parliament is taking back the provisions which the majority of the four channels have voted for, which the institutes of Caracas, Venezuela, Florence, have consulted and I do not know what else. It is also good that you have accepted our amendment, although you did not have the courage to say so. You made Mr. Lappa say it, but it's the same. You also accept the amendment that extends the assent to other provisions of Article 2(4). Colleagues in the Chamber and those of us who listen to us outside Athens, this provision of Article 2(4) was the one that raised the objection of constitutionality we raised in plenary last year and it was the reason why we did not allow the National Radiovision Council to be set up. This is a big victory! See in the Minutes, which I have here, what we said at the first Conference of Presidents. And the fact that you are taking this back today with an explicit amendment, which extends even with our own contribution, is very positive. We will support that, Mr President. However, Minister, to finish. From the political landfill in which you have been in all this history, I would ask you to consider the question of a wording of your amendment, which you tabled on Monday, which has no legal value, but has political and symbolic value, especially for those who hear us out of Ethiopia, prefer the verb'removed' instead of the verb'suspensed', the application of the amendment, which was Article 2A, with which you have taken this responsibility to do everything yourself. In conclusion, I would like to say, Mr President, to the New Democracy that it says not to vote on this and to remain in the verb'repealed' and that is a condition. If what New Democracy says we and the entire Opposition, as well as ten MPs, heard what would happen, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy? Would the Pappa law, as was the case today, which was judged as judged by the Council of State? There's a contradiction here. That is why, although we preferred the verb'repealed', I call on the government - it has the floor in a moment - to make this change. What the President of Parliament has explained to us is not the case, Minister of State. Legally it is the same, whether you say'repealed' or'suspended'. But symbolically, the one who listens without knowing the law well, feels that you are the ones who are being beaten and by the evil ones you are walking the Hall and the Greek people. I mean that both "repealed" and "suspended" a wicked man could change it after a few days, whether he says "repealed" or "suspended". But the point is not to play the courgette. It is better to formulate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u569	Finish this, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u570	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the government, Mr President, on the basis of all this, the President of the House must take advantage of these days before us. We must not go to the Conference on Monday, where people will be parading and speaking for or against the public. The parties must be consulted transparently and come to the composition of the institution, because what has come to be voted last Monday, in the light of the changes that are taking place today, in the light of a new reality, cannot be tolerated. The new proposal to approve and propose the Conference of Presidents should be the subject of consultations in the next few days. I mean, by that, the ending of Monday night is no longer true. A new debate is under way, which will be fruitful. The President of Parliament must keep her out of publicity until Monday and Monday there must be a unanimous attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u571	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Mr. Dendias has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u572	Mr President, if I have understood things correctly, the Minister has come to the sense of extending all the responsibilities of the National Broadcasting Council to all the things that have been mentioned. Do I understand correctly, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u573	That was already there. I said it in my speech too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u574	No, there wasn't. It was, as an opinion, converted into an assent, and it concerns all cases. That's what I understood. If I understood it wrong, he'd fix me. Mr President, I too am speaking as a new democracy to make it clear what we consider to be the foundation and basis of the agreement. Firstly, we are clearly calling for recognition of the legal situation created by the word'repeal'. The 2A no longer exists. It should be recognised, or else we should wait for the clearance and publication of the decision. Both of us are acceptable. However, this word'suspension' is not acceptable. Secondly, we consider that on the basis of Article 15 of the Constitution the Minister has no role, does not have an institutional dialogue with the independent authority, with the National Broadcasting Council. The National Broadcasting Council within the state's legal framework must act as an independent authority. I would also like to say this for the National Broadcasting Council, so that there are no misunderstandings and, indeed, deliberate misunderstandings: I have before me the 234/2015 opinion of the Legal Council of State. A lot of majority Members have allegedly referred to this opinion, without saying the number, which recognised the illegal establishment of the National Radiovision Council. There was no paper by the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, the view you have so warmly supported is the view of a minority. Please read the decision. The majority view is different. The board existed, it was legal, and you abolished it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u575	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, before we go on, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and how there are twenty-five students and students, as well as three educational attendants from the 1st Municipal School in Ioannina. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I shall now give the floor to Mr Pappas for a brief answer and a dentext as it has been heard. There are no other Members to speak. Then Mr. Kontonis will speak for very little - one or two minutes - and Mr. Dritsas, as the Minister who has brought the ratification of the agreement to the end. Here, Mr. Pappa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u576	If this House allows me, I would like to start with a confession. I feel along the way of this whole case as if we found a multi-strike on the road, an ambulance parked next door, we loaded him up, we took him to the hospital and they stopped us on the road and said, "You are not entitled to drive the ambulance, you have to turn the trauma back to the point where you found him and take him, the only person responsible for driving the ambulance." And all this just before we get into the hospital. Poly trauma was the television scenery and we, in fact, were forced to take responsibility once and for all to regulate it. That's what I think is the reality. In any case, I have to go back to the matter of the National Broadcasting Council. The National Broadcasting Council had no legal composition. And because it had no legal composition, the Council of State has several times rejected - ten decisions I have made here - the fines it imposed on the channels. So the channels themselves, which came out as defenders of the institutional role of the National Broadcasting Council, appealed to the CEEC to say and support and justify that it has no competence, that the National Broadcasting Council does not have legal composition, and therefore it cannot impose fines. That was the reality. And now you tell us that in the face of this reality, we had to have a competition with that National Broadcasting Council. Do you really think that this competition would last even a second in the first court proceedings from the multiples to which it would have been subjected? And, of course, I would remind the House that in the debate in the committees on Mr.4339 - I wonder if any other law has been discussed so extensively at the National Representation and Public - the remaining National Broadcasting Council has declared a complete impossibility to rule on a number of issues that were prerequisites for the organisation of the competition. We also received legal status on the substance of this situation and had to move in some way. But why move, ladies and gentlemen? Just to implement the Constitution and to comply with the decisions of the Council of State that the extension of the "legal" operation of unauthorised channels is incompatible with the Constitution. I ask for the multiplier: all those who have criticised the government for the progress of developments and our choices to organise the tender if I myself had signed the unconstitutional extension of the operation of television stations at the beginning of this year, would they protest? I'm sorry to say that, and I'm afraid not. I am very sorry to say that if I on 31 December had signed these amendments that extended the television status qua, we would have no protests at all. We are not talking about such a scale protest or fantasy! It would be a simple paper, a simple amendment. But I think it has flown too much water in the groove, and now they have all realised that a Broadcasting Council must be set up with a legal composition and a tendering price. In fact, apart from the proposal from the New Democracy, in which it is not very clear how the price will be guaranteed, I did not hear a proposal saying that the price should not be paid. This is a acquis. And it's a acquis why? Because a competition was conducted and it proved that there are people who are willing to pay. It has been shown that there is value on the rare resource called "television frequencies", on the service called "Greek broadcasting", a value which the political authority systematically gave as non-substantiated. I'll say it with sadness. I heard speeches here and felt that some feel that they were vindicated for the twenty-seven years of lawlessness! [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Let's have a measure. He's not rightful. Not at all. The twenty-seven years of lawlessness are what no one here can go up to the Step and say that it was well burned. Not even one! And that gives us pleasure, and it's a vindication. So we shall now proceed to the amendments. In the amendments we have the agreement on the starting price, Mr Twelfths. I think it is secondary to the previous one, because as far as the starting price is concerned, it has been shown that, if in an excellent way and proper design a tender is organised, the price will be much higher than any starting price. There are, I think, all the preconditions and accumulated experience to do that. It has been debated a great deal - and I will conclude with that and I thank you, Mr President - if Mr No.4339 has come up unconstitutional and if he has to withdraw. I take this opportunity to reiterate that when we voted for No.4339, we have spent too much time building consensus, the widest possible ones. Of the fifteen articles relating to the competition and an article on the establishment of ERT - NET, the company associated with ERT to become a digital provider, the Democratic Reconciliation voted for nine, the Centron Union of eight and the River of five, preconditions, origin of capital, technology equipment, building infrastructure, selection of applications...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u577	We knew them and voted for them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u578	Of course, you knew and voted for them. Why do you go up to this Step and say that we only care about the price? Why does this criticism sound, since we have voted together articles that have brought up the quality bar too high? That is the truth, and now comes a criticism which - to tell the truth - has been zero in the past few days. Today was modest. But let us come back a little while to remember what had happened not only on the charged day we had the severe conflict over competences, but to remember the days of the vote of Mr.4339, which is a legislative law of the State, on the basis of which, of course, the independent authority - we all wish - will carry out the tender. We all want that. We will not, of course, go to a situation in which the independent authorities legislate. The independent authorities shall implement the laws adopted. It's a law that got a vote from opposition parties too. We're saying it and we're happy to say it again. Monday is ahead. There are, in our opinion, no more pretexts. Obviously, the speaker, as a member of the government, will make no comment on any person, because it is the responsibility of the House and the Conference of Presidents to detect - as is right up to now - the possibilities of consensus. But I think that the political system must go through to the next degree of maturation, look at the past and agree all of us together so that the ERR can be set up as well as a competition, but also a price to be paid, otherwise I think we will be accountable again in the next generation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u579	Thank you, Minister Pappa. The Minister, Mr. Kontonis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u580	Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard a criticism of the specific amendment proposed by the Ministry of Culture and Sport that this amendment affects the self-employed of the Greek Football Federation. I think it would be better to answer, if the self-defence is affected, is the International Football Federation itself, which is working with the government to bring an end to the regime of sepsis and corruption that has existed for years. But what seemed to me is that this argument, which was heard by the neo-nazi party of the Golden Dawn, was combined with complaints from the press that we do not define the elections and that this is a point of incompetence. But is it ever possible for the government to define the elections of a union of tertiary grades in this particular case? This is the work of the club itself, and in particular of its administration, which has been placed by FIFA to complete this whole situation. The second thing I wanted to say is this. We heard a criticism that "the business place, where there is profitability, etc., whatever you do, is lost." We heard it from the JRC's speaker. It is a mistaken view and approach. What would the JRC want? Do not do what we did for twenty months and have remained in the 'paraca' regime? Did he want us not to have intervened at all and to remain in this terrible situation that poisoned Greek sport, Greek youth and Greek society, for the glory of interacting and corruption? So we put back on these things and brought results. And I would like to say from the Step of Parliament, ending, to all those who have fought this effort for twenty months and, above all, to the financially powerful, secondly, to the bullies who had disguised themselves to followers, and thirdly, to silver scriptures that we are not afraid. Let's do whatever they want! The government is going to resolve the problem of corruption and conflict at all levels. And he will resolve it for the benefit of the Greek people. And if they wonder, "But how do they not fear, when the former meant retreat to every attack we made them?" we answer: Let them look behind us! Let them look behind us all those who gave everything to the folk movement case, who lost their lives in the mountain, in the exiles, in the Columbia of the dictatorship! It's from them that we draw power. And their eyes will not be betrayed! The corruption and the financial interests that support it will be defeated by the government of the people, by the Government of SYRIZA!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u581	Thank you, Minister Kontonis. The Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy will be closed, Mr. Thodoros Dritsas. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u582	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to make it clear on the two parliamentary amendments - one of the three amendments - the two have remained, as Mr Thabaeus withdrew and will correct it, supplement it and reintroduce it - this. According to what Mr Denkias has asked for, which I agree with and I am sure - because I am not the Minister responsible for the subject, I am responsible for the introduction of this bill, for the contract with the Republic of Cyprus for research and rescue - and, therefore, for us to resolve this issue properly, I can assure the House that the relevant and co-legislative ministers have confirmed that they accept these two parliamentary amendments. So it's covered from this side. Now Mr Loverdos' amendment does not have the elements of the other amendments. These amendments were urgent. Mr Kegeroglu's amendment is also very serious, but it has all the time to put it under normal procedures and to be dealt with by the relevant Minister when there is such a bill on time. Ladies and gentlemen, much has been said. One attempt on many sides was the sharp critical positions on both the right and the left and the centre that this whole story on the government side was made to disorientate Greek society. For God's sake! We fully respect the problems of Greek citizens, the issues of purchasing power, the standard of living, the needs coverage, the trial that the Greek people are going through. It would not be possible for any sick mind to set up and neither would the government be able to set up such de-orientated toys. It's a battle. Because, indeed - and one cannot reduce this - there may have been excesses in the time spent and what has been said here, but there is also a serious issue, finally break one of the most morbid and cruel abscessions that poisons public life, the complexity, as in many respects has been described and found. This battle is not a disorientation, on the contrary, along with all other battles, is at the very heart of the objectives of this government. So every criticism - I am sorry to hear it on the left - which is downgrading this battle, I think it does not offer an attempt by Greek society to change things and to try to serve these objectives. I have some very important, most important, in my opinion, because it is difficult to choose. The President of Parliament, Nikos Voutsis, posed a question: Could the government not have compromised, chosen the way they chose previous governments? Wouldn't it gain benefits from this? Would it not have channels that would have a stand for tolerance or support with such a continuation of a compromise and a transaction? Couldn't he? I couldn't say, 'cause it doesn't take us to our DNA, 'cause we're starting from elsewhere, and we're going somewhere else. But, practically, if our own government were to decide, it could even perpetuate that reality. So why did the government and the Minister, Nikos Pappas, choose this procedure to change the landscape? To win channels? But he could've earned it otherwise. Why this adventure? Why so many years, ladies and gentlemen, that there was an PSE, not one, two, three years ago, many years ago, were not allowed? Why didn't there be any competitions? Why has no price for the use of frequencies been collected and no money has been paid correspondingly for this? Why? Wasn't there a constitutional check then? Wasn't there a commitment? Because there is no PR in itself and there is no independent authority that is unconnected from what is actually happening in political and social relation at any historic moment. And the messages received by the PSE were 'do not bother'. Where there was an initiative, it stayed in the middle and was not encouraged and it was not based on corresponding legislation. That's the reality. And now the criticisms come that we have a political defeat of the Minister, Nikos Papapas, the government, or more refined of the government's political plan. But what exactly was this plan and the political will of this government, not by intent trial, to be careful, can you say what one wants, and also by having a strong communication mechanism, structured and structured, to do so, be true, be it true, it is another trial of intent - but the facts? It is a law that says to set up a specific framework of quality and upgraded and transparent operation of the channels, become a competition and set or result from the procedure provided for in the price law. This is the battle it fought with the legislature and with the procedure that was initially known with the PSE, then in the presence of the sabotage not to form an PSE, with the excess that the Council of State came and did not accept it. But that's the battle. Do we have defeat in this fight? If we have defeated Nikos Papapas, the government, the Prime Minister, SYRIZA, they will be defeated by parliament and the political world, ladies and gentlemen. Here those who speak of defeat and those who rejoice and rejoice in the decision of the Council of State must clarify it, to see exactly what we mean - but what we are talking about. Why is there going to be a competition from now on with the PSE? Will all the wings of the House be brought together to be done? Will the price arise or be determined? Will there be a framework for qualitative upgrading and transparent operation of the television system? Will the PSE do this alone if the political system and the political world don't? Are we going to settle this? Wouldn't that be ostrichism?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u583	Complete your thoughts, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u584	I shall conclude, Mr President. If this plan is not implemented, then it has been defeated, and of course no one can rejoice about it. No one can rejoice about that. As regards the circumvention of the PSE, therefore, the size and the measure is that and the pendingness that remains is not the writing or scaffolding of the final decision. It is a starting point for what the Greek Parliament will do, what the political system will do. I shall conclude, Mr President. So the question that arises in this regard and complements what I described as a central question is what the PPE we want. Not what names, but what prestige, with what potential, with what support, in what context, in what direction. It's the Constitution, but it's not enough. Live reality is determined by the attitude of political and social forces. This is the challenge from today and then in front of the initiative of the President of Parliament and the Conference of Presidents on Monday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u585	Thank you, Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, Mr. Thodoris Dritsa. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Islands Policy is adjourned: 'Under the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on cooperation in the fields of Research and Rescue and other provisions'. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u586	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u587	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u588	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u589	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u590	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u591	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u592	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u593	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u594	Article 1 has therefore been unanimously accepted. We are entering the vote on the amendments. Does the House agree that the Ministerial Amendment is accepted under a general number 734 and a special number 9 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u595	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u596	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u597	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u598	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u599	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u600	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u601	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u602	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u603	The amendment, by a general number 734 and a special 9, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the Ministerial Amendment is accepted under a general number of 740 and a special number of 15?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u604	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u605	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u606	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u607	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u608	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u609	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u610	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u611	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u612	The amendment, by a general number 740 and a special 15, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the parliamentary amendment is accepted under a general number 741 and a special number 16 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u613	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u614	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u615	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u616	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u617	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u618	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u619	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u620	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u621	The amendment under general number 741 and a special 16 were therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the Ministerial Amendment is accepted under a general number 738 and a special number 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u622	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u623	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u624	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u625	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u626	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u627	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u628	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u629	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u630	Therefore, the amendment under general number 738 and a special 13 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the Ministerial Amendment is accepted under a general number 739 and a special number 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u631	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u632	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u633	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u634	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u635	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u636	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u637	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u638	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u639	Therefore, the amendment under general number 739 and a special 14 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the legislative amendment is accepted under a general number 736 and a special number 11 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u640	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u641	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u642	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u643	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u644	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u645	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u646	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u647	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u648	Therefore, the amendment under general number 736 and special 11 were accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the parliamentary amendment is accepted under a general number 737 and a special number 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u649	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u650	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u651	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u652	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u653	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u654	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u655	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u656	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u657	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 737 and a special 12 were accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u658	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u659	Oh, no. The problem is precisely the hotel article, because it says that the first application of this law is done by a ministerial decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u660	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u661	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u662	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u663	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u664	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u665	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u666	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Island Policy: ‘Under the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on cooperation in the fields of Research and Rescue and other provisions’ was accepted in principle and on articles. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u667	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u668	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u669	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u670	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u671	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u672	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u673	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u674	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u675	Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: ‘Application of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on cooperation in the fields of Research and Rescue and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles, amendments and all of the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u676	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u677	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-03-S1-commons.u678	With the consent of the House at 19.08 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, November 4, 2016 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: (a) the topical and urgent debate and (b) the debate on the number 5/21-10-2016 topical question to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity.
