ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Opening of the sitting We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the articles, amendments and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: "The Single Social Security System - Reformation of an insurance - pension scheme - Reform of income tax arrangements and gambling and other provisions". We will start with the following series of speakers: With Mr Constantinople, Mr Kremastinos, Mr Nicholas, who asked to speak yesterday, but I do not see him. I hope he's coming. Then two more colleagues will speak, Mrs Skoufa and Mr Dimitrios Koukoutsis. After the five colleagues I will give the floor to Mr Anastasios Petropoulos, the State Secretary for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, who has been speaking since yesterday. After the Minister, there are four Members of Parliament who have not spoken. They will speak when they ask for the floor, in the order that they will ask for it and enter in between the colleagues. Mr Mandas has asked to speak last of all with the parliamentary representatives. I would just like to make one request, to keep as many Members as possible, so that they can speak as many time as possible. The deal is for five minutes. There will be a tolerance for a few seconds more, but please keep the time to stay out of trouble. Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the mandate of hope for Greece of 2030, for Greece of the Left, was disproved in less than a year in all areas: economic sector, ethical, justice and transparency. With this bill, SYRIZA - ANEL Government writes its political epilogue with society. But remember. What were you talking about? What did you promise? How much you lied about? You said that the Memorandum was abolished with an article. But what really happened? You have caused through your delays and your ideas the third memorandum and you have 'cava' the fourth. That's not about 12,000 euros. Your red line and Mr. Tsakalotou's tax-free at EUR 9,100. You will remember that Mr Tsakalotos said that if the taxfree falls below EUR 9,100 he will resign and come to Parliament to vote against it. And with a night's amendment you did it at 8,600! I would remind you that the account is 1.8 as much as your favorite expression "the charm of PPC". That's the left-wing charm! You said no reduction in pensions, returning the thirteenth pension. Single: minus 20% now. CSCE: reductions for three hundred thousand. And today you are voting for 2.5 billion cuts. The reductions are 10% to 30% in the main pensions for young people and in two years for all. Additional 6% for 2015 and 20% in 2016. There will be a reduction in the dividend to three hundred forty thousand pensioners. As far as insurance contributions are concerned, their growth will bring about a new vicious unemployment cycle. For farmers, lawyers, engineers, doctors, the increase is from 25% to 37%. One example I will tell you. A lawyer with five years of legal and gross income of 20,000 euros, was currently paying insurance contributions of 4,096 euros and a tax of 3,498 euros. The SYRIZA-ANEL Act will pay insurance contributions of EUR 7,590 and EUR 2,730. Of course you and we can say our own assessments, but when the bill arrives, everyone will know the truth. You are voting for an increase in taxation from 26% to 29% in small and medium-sized enterprises. Of course, the VAT you found at 13% reached him at 24%. This is a punishing attitude towards Greece that produces, against the part of the Greek society that is the social center, which kept Greece upright. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, to be fair, the bill imposes the logic of the Prime Minister's strategic adviser and rather of all the government: 'Self career is cholera'. Anyone who fights to improve his life and legally win through his work has no place in the country. You give a left alibi to tax evasion, tax evasion, undeclared work. However, if, ladies and gentlemen, everything goes well, why don't you do a great gathering - such as the old one, Mr. Katrugalos and Mr. Tsakalotos - on the Syntagma Square to inform the citizens of the beneficial actions of the bill? I am waiting today for the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group to come out and join the protesting world. Go build a gathering at small cafes, in villages under two thousand inhabitants, to inform them that these live cells will also be closed: cafes, grocery stores, taverns. One more intervention in the oligarchy! But it is not just economic issues. Let's go to corruption issues. You caused a debate a few days ago on corruption and transparency and the Prime Minister said that there are thirteen regulations that create opaqueness. Why didn't you remove them with a law, with an article? Why? You were talking about the triangle politicians - the media and banks. Some of you were right. When the banks that gave advertising a few days ago, and indeed in 2015, Mr. Drasakis was responsible for the banks, because the majority of the shares had the state, “AYI”, the party body of SYRIZA,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u3	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u4	Mr. Barka, what is this thing?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, what are these things?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u6	What are these things? Is a field here, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Brutsi, he has not addressed you. Mr. Constantinople is entitled to react as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u8	I, too, as a Parliamentary spokesman, guarding the procedure. I would say the same thing if he were affected was Mr Barkas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u9	Yes, but he did not address you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u10	Mr Barkas was an official of the "SGEI". I understand his reaction.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Barkas is out of the hall. Keep going and close.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u12	AUGIA received 550,000 euros of advertising. Have you made a decision, ladies and gentlemen, to hit the complex from within, to do what the old political system is? Of course, ladies and gentlemen, you have divided society with your logic 'we or them', 'on 20 September we are ending them or ending us'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Constantinople, but you must close.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u14	I'm ending up with two words. Ladies and gentlemen, you have raised political generalism. MPs who voted against measures lighter have found you a new party roof to support much worse, in exchange for a government, parliamentary or state position. The country, Greece of 2030, which is envisioning the progressive party, the Democratic Reconciliation, is a country with new jobs. By supporting Greece of production, we are here to vote against the bill, for the next step for the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u15	I would like to ask colleagues from all parties, at least the first fifteen, who have the advantage that by noon they will have reached the Stepma, not to abuse time, because this is at the expense of other colleagues. A lot of people have already spoken. If we keep up with the time, the whole list can be exhausted. I would like to ask you, do not turn around and look at me when the bell rings, asking for more time. You're embarrassing me. But I don't do it for the speaker. I'm doing it for everyone else.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, I would like the floor for ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Barka, what do you want? About what?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, I would like to apologise for you and the previous speaker and from this House, from the parties in the democratic arch, for my previous explosion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u19	We don't want your apology!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u20	You're not a democratic arch. Fascists!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u21	Mrs. Christophilopoulou, sit down! Mr. Koukutsis, sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u22	What should I sit down? Leave the fascists?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u23	Wait a minute. A fine moment in Parliament...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, you are imposing the Code of Conduct!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Panayotus, calm down. A fine moment in Parliament, where a colleague speaks and says 'I was wrong and I call it off', we made it not to say what. Instead of listening to him - and it was a nice moment in Parliament, and it must be done by all of us, if that is the case - we did Texas here! Take it easy! Mr. Barka, continue, please, and close.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, I would also like to withdraw from the Minutes what has been heard. I'm rescinding.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u27	Okay. It honors you. To be erased from the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u29	What do you want, Mr. Brutsi, now? You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u30	My speech is particularly important and will help to hold the debate. The government's amendment 421/16 raises two very serious issues to the government yesterday. I put them at the moment to clarify some things. First, the tax-free eight thousand six hundred...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u31	Don't get in on the substance. You are talking about the last amendment. What's your request?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u32	In the way it has been written - and we want an answer from the government - it shows that more than EUR 20,000 is not tax-free. The tax-free over 20,000 euros is being abolished.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u33	Good. You want clarification or change.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u34	Yeah. And the second thing I want to say, Mr President, is this: the Minister for Rural Development and the Deputy Minister for Labour. In the way that the issue has been raised for farmers, which are regarded as income from agricultural enterprises and subsidies, it is now clear that 27.2% of the contributions will also go to subsidies. Mr. Petropoulos had completely disproved this in the TV panel I had with him two months ago. This in itself doesn't want clarification. He wants an amendment - I am clarifying - to remove it in 421, which is for farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u35	All right, all right. They've been recorded, you've said your positions. But here's what I'm going to tell you. You do not have unlimited time for parliamentarians to intervene. Especially those who have not spoken can put on whatever themes that exist when you come to Step to make your normal speech. On the first point, I believe that Mr Petropoulos, who will shortly come up to the Step, will answer you. Here is the Minister for Rural Development who will give you his answer, because he will speak. Mr. Cremastino has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to speak clearly as I see it. Firstly, in my opinion, a great opportunity was lost immediately after the elections. Who was that? The Prime Minister could form a government, following the proposal made by Mr Meymarakis, of all parties who believe that the country should stay in the euro area and in the euro, and that government would be very strong and would have a very strong internal and external reason. I'll explain why. For the first time the IMF is asking a country to legislate in advance in case something happens - which it believes will happen - and to be committed by the country. Secondly, our European friends - because we are Europeans too - are not saying no. They say there is an automatic mechanism that makes the famous "cut", the "cut" that they say. What do Europeans say? They don't say don't do anything like that. They say something better, and that is what debate and disagreement are taking place. But why don't they trust us? Because we're always changing faces. Party - and I am not just talking about SYRIZA, who is now in this category, I also speak of New Democracy - who have voted against the memorandum or the memorandum, thinking that they are not mandatory, after seeing them follow them, to vote for them all. Why should they trust us? So they want to get us in one class. They'll put us in. If, however, we had a government of this kind, would it not be possible for that government to say a large not and maintain the dignity of the country? What I have to say is also about the sustainability of this bill by Mr Katrugalou. Its viability - as you know - as the previous one, forced to change, depends on whether there is growth and investment. I ask again: does the government have credibility so that investors can come and bring their money now? Do you think that if it were a wider government, would its credibility not be greater? Second question: Do you think that if capital controls are lifted the whole world from the next day, it will bring back its money - which has it at home or has it abroad or anywhere - to banks? If it was a government of all the parties, wouldn't that be more reasonable to happen? If these things don't happen then how will it apply and prosper the Karugalos bill? If unemployment does not fall, in other words, in order for workers and employers to make contributions, how will the bill go well? And we're going to go to another worse bill and who's going to be responsible? This is why we and you, but we do not, that is, all Greeks, always prevail. We're all, there's no us and you. So these are the big questions, if you wish, which employ the average Greek citizen and the House must answer, and the Prime Minister must answer them. For this is what concerns the Greek citizen today. It doesn't worry about how many mistakes one party made and how much the other is doing now. He's also concerned about this, but he's second. What does the Greek want? He wants his kids back from abroad, who's gone. How will his children return if there is no growth? With all this, then, the questions and within the five-minute time-limit of this House - I cannot, unfortunately, extend any more - I am coming to this House today and I say that everyone has to go over them. Because what today's Qualified Opposition of course does not adopt it, because he had said so with another Chief. You remember it, under the government of Papademos, which was overturned, and then we went to one another. And what happened? Is the problem solved? Now, once again, we are asking for the same thing. So that opportunity is gone. But is it time to think today, so that the whole story called Greece is not lost? Because I - don't know you - I'm really worried. And I am concerned that I do not know what is going on and I do not know what interests exist which are even in our neighbouring countries. Why is everyone watching us and seeing a country for six years not being able to do what our Cypriot brothers have done, namely all the parties - I repeat - of the so-called European arch. Because if a party doesn't believe it, it doesn't believe it. But are those who believe, at least, that it is possible to disagree and be insulted in the Chamber and not do what Cyprus has done? That is the big question. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u37	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Nicholas and then two colleagues, Mrs Skoufa and Mr Koukoutsi. Then Mr. Petropoulos will take the floor. Before Mr Petroulos, if you would like the floor, Mr Apostolos, for three minutes, to answer the question raised by Mr Brutsis, in order to be clear and not to be reinstated by another colleague, I will give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u38	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u39	Mr. Nicholas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u40	Mr President, thank you for your understanding. It's Sunday today, and some of us are still in church. Jesus Christ Resurrection! I wish soon to celebrate the resurrection of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a common place that the bill that we are called upon to discuss and vote today brings a major blow to public security, abolishing its social character, and also legitimises and simulates the thirteen cuts in the previous Memorandum Governments. The insurance goes hand in hand with the poorening of the whole society, and that means that it has an impact on the workers, on farmers, on pensioners, on the officials of the Armed Forces and on the Security Body, but it also has an impact on the economy in this country itself. It is, however, also a mini-taxation which, while not abolishing everything we had to do and committed ourselves, brings the poverty of the middle class. A special tax is introduced to scientists and free professionals with the appalling increase in insurance contributions, leading to new locks, new job losses and deeper recession. Dramatic changes also bring to future pensioners, who, while paying higher contributions, will receive smaller pensions. The method of calculation is self-evidently socially unfair, but also economically ineffective. It will increase tax evasion, tax evasion, black and undeclared work, with the direct effect of reducing both tax revenue and the income of the insurance funds. Mr Katrugalos or Mr Petropoulos, of course, are not the only ones to lie, but also their predecessors, who were not willing to do any self-criticism, since the insurance funds, as everyone knows, had lost their true status long before the crisis, even from these memoranda. That is why everyone knows that the criticism of the previous ones is hypocritical. We, up to now, are trying to prevent a repetition of the disastrous mistakes of the past, listening to the voice of society, but also serving its needs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Christian Democratic Party of Greece says yes to the pension household, but not to pensions - benefits. It says yes to an insurance reform that will streamline the system, but not to demolish social rights. It may be that their lenders and solidaritys - Mitsotakis, Genemas, Theodorakis and others - do not care if in today's Memorandum Greece, with unemployment permanently nailed by over 25%, pensions are rarely the income of an elderly couple, but it is the economic basis for two or more families and for this reason they propose their violent, says, adjustment. But we don't close our eyes or our ears. We stay firm in what we said and what they were saying when they were antimony, and Samaras and Tsipras, when we were all together. We therefore propose a solid, sustainable and socially acceptable insurance system based on the principle of equality between insured persons, the proportionality of insured and retired persons and the solidarity of generations, but principles which are not applied in this draft law. The low pensioners must of course be protected. But the development of the country will not come with the help of grandparents and grandparents to their children and grandchildren. The reform should therefore be part of a development strategy aimed at increasing employment, reducing tax evasion, avoidance, based on the living standards of the present and future generation. Unfortunately, however, this only serves the budgetary objective set by foreign lenders. This harsh reality the government said it would treat it differently. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude my speech, I would also like to speak as a child's parent with disabilities and many gifts. I want to talk, in other words, about people with disabilities, about people with chronic illnesses and their families. Unfortunately, in the times of the memorial glaciers that we live in the LEADs they are experiencing a decline in the social services of the collapsed social state. I do not overlook any positive regulations made by the government, but, Minister, the national pension must be given to disabled people, regardless of the time of insurance, from 50% or more. Special care must be taken to support the family by providing such support that it can protect its member with disabilities and keep it at home. Finally, in a spirit of neoliberalism by Mr Mitsotakis, who wants to send us customers to private security, we will reiterate that the insurance system must be based on social protection, reciprocity and solidarity of generations. For us, the Greek Christian Democrats, strengthening the social state is our main orientation, because support for the weak is at the heart of our policy. For us, redistribution is a part of social justice. Unfortunately, however, the necessary negotiating effort by the government has produced painful results, which we do not accept and which we do not vote on. We prefer even to continue swimming in the deep, even if we have abducted. We believe that the government has not understood the size of social indignation that accumulates. Societies are in Nadir. The Christian Democratic Party of Greece therefore proposes at a special meeting to discuss and agree on our own national strategic exit plan from the crisis. The National Parliament must finally be the owner of a national reconstruction plan of its own, so that in the two hundred years since the National Palvageesia, that is, in 2021, we can celebrate our own national regeneration, which we will all have achieved together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, as I have said, we are now entering the normal list. Mrs. Elisabeth Skoufa from SYRIZA will be followed by Mr. Dimitris Koukoutsis from the Golden Dawn, Mr. Petropoulos, Mr. Apostolos will take the floor, if he wants it for three minutes, to answer the question raised by Mr. Vroutzis and then proceed with the list of the first three colleagues, Mrs. Vultusis, Mr. Manios and Mr. Boukoro.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, could I precede the Ministers as a parliamentarian?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u43	Yes, I said that the Members of Parliament who did not speak yesterday, whatever time you want to tell me and you will speak. I made it clear - you weren't in - from the start. Mrs. Scouffa has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u44	First of all, many years to all the mothers of the world, to all the mothers who fight, sacrifice, grow and bring the next generation to the steps of life. Secondly, today is the anniversary of the Labour Day. Price, therefore, for Chicago workers and workers, honor and gaze always turns to workers and workers, to elastic workers and, of course, to millions of unemployed people worldwide! Ladies and gentlemen, as I have today to speak in the Chamber, I would like to present my very great bitterness and disappointment at the collapse of the political speech in Parliament and in Greece. Every day we hear as SYRIZA MPs that we are liars, that we are traitors, that we are incapable, the thousands of millions! You know what, our citizens and fellow citizens who know us personally laugh at all this. He also laughs at the traditional goat with what the Anti-Policy, because there is misguided arguments that turns us back, personally addresss us. I am very sorry, I really would like to start changing political customs in the country. Secondly, we must finally tell the truth. What is the truth that the citizens must know and we already knew about it, that the insurance system as it was, in a few years' time, would not have been able to retire to anyone. The farmers wouldn't be retired. To avoid talking about the generation of mine, the forty - ones and the smaller ones at the age of thirty, who could not get a penny of rapist. Did the insurance system have to be reformed, so we could all have a pension? Yeah. How did this situation arise in the insurance system? I will start with something that has not been heard in the Chamber. Did monkey pensions be given over the past few years? Were pensions given to ensure party customers to MPs and local agents? They were given. Was the supernatant given a unique one? Were the Greek people's money played on stock exchanges? I want to ask you something simplistic. They played, he says, the money of the insurance fund reserves on stock exchanges. The question raised is this: Gentlemen of PASOK and New Democracy, was your money and you invested it on the stock market? So, we take someone's money, put it on the stock exchange, shut the bubble, lose the money, who's responsible for the money? With a stranger's steak? Furthermore, there has been a reduction in the PSI and the result is that we have a huge hole in the insurance sector, which, if it continued in its form, would not give a pension to anyone. He says the JRC should give up and blame the PSI and the stock exchanges. I couldn't agree more. But is that how pensioners' pensions are saved? Until the cases are dealt with, until the money left in the bubbles of the universe is searched, will the retired person be retired in this way? On the other hand, we have an enemy, I would say, environment, hostile to the ideological position of SYRIZA, which is clearly anti-neo-liberal. We are a government in a Europe and a globalised system characterised by neoliberalism. Would they ever do us a favour to give a third pension, to have a tax-free of EUR 13 000 per year and all the other things we were talking about, and I am sorry to say to you that we continue to want and believe that we would even now? The lenders have opposite schedule to ours. They want, like the New Democracy, a lesser state, no social state, the prevalence of the free private market, immunity and so on. It is completely unlike our programme. So what do we do - and I close with it - in and against creditors' pressures for pension cuts? Since we have agreed with the third memorandum to save money, what we are doing and is disturbing you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, it is these cuts to burden large incomes and large pensions, because if you read the insurance carefully, you will see that both the rates of replacement and the burden of medium and low incomes through the combination of taxation and social security contributions are much more burdened by those who have and hold them, and little less as the low and medium-sized layers at all. This is our huge difference. That's the direction we have. This is the direction to back Greece back on its feet, because Greece will not be supported by the great interests. Greece and its reconstruction will be based on medium and low production classes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Dimitrios Koukoutsis, speaker from the Golden Dawn, has the floor. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Labour Day today, celebration. Well, carnations, well roses, but for pensions and labors, yulls and violins, marbled and jasmine, soured and hopefully all. It is good today that it is a Labour Day to remember the late Aristides Dimitrato, if that name says something in this Chamber. He was the left-wing minister of whom? The one who established the Labour Day as an official holiday, the greatest John Metaxas. On national issues I have always had ideological objections to the Left, and I considered the Left to be a little - very risky on national issues. In the social field, however, I had a lot of hopes. However, social benefits are currently being persecuted by you and, it seems, this government will be the occasion not to raise the left in this country again after many, many decades, because always - and at a pan-European level, I can say - the left will be the bad example. The whole bill, which you are proposing, is counterproductive and counterproductive. In particular, it is a serious problem that distortions in the system's returnability and a characteristic weakness are not taking into account the interaction of the social security system with the macro-economic environment. It is not a question of creating new sources of public revenue. For example, it does not count on the tomorrow revenue described in L 4162/2013 in the proportional studies, which all of us were told about 75% of the revenue from the use of national hydrocarbon deposits will be drawn up in the national solidarity account for generations. I guess that's the kind of thing that goes to the demilitarisation fund, too. It insists on the logic that we are not cutting off basic pensions while it dismantles subsidiary contributions and increases contributions. While the primary sector is considered to be a steam engine for growth, it is now levelled. It happens in all the countries of Europe that we have a reduction in agricultural costs with agricultural oil, with agricultural and craft industries, by reducing the VAT rate on agricultural supplies, by creating a price observatory, seeds, pesticides, veterinary medicinal products, according to the EEO standards, for things that will improve the purchase and supply of products. Instead, there is a mood of collector. That's all we're missing, so much we're gonna collect. There are solutions to increase the funds and there are also thoughts, and there are proposals: a stable tax environment, a 15-year plan. The contributions of the EUPM are illegally high. Connecting contributions to real income, ladies and gentlemen. Exemption from insurance contributions from new entrepreneurs. Fixed insurance contributions of active entrepreneurs. Exemption of contributions to IKA from non-wage costs. Fixed contributions of employees and others. I mention this because some people say that we have no proposals. Unfortunately, it is too little time to say more things, but it is no different. But you said election, and you say so now that you are government. I also said to the committee, there is a term, according to Babiniotis, which says: "Consciousness is a quality and lifestyle in which one respects oneself. It does not humiliate him to gain respect for others, it does not fall into smallness. Pride with courtesy of ethos." Today the dignity, dignity of the worker and the pensioner is lost. But, unfortunately, as a Left, with the moral, supposedly advantage you have, you also lose your dignity by voting for all of this. In your inability to provide solutions you have built a world of fantasy in which you always have the right and always have the moral, as you say, advantage. You promised the end of nepotism, corruption and arrogance, and that is what they are blossoming. You look like you're avoiding or rather not capable of either the conflict or the compromise. Sometimes you say: 'Yes, we do scandals', but what are you doing? You are making a vote against everything that has been done over the past few years and that has been done by the previous ones. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And let's go somewhere else now. Will you excuse me, Mr President, for one minute? Says the people: “How did we get this far? Why are we here? Why is that problem? What are the solutions? No one knew?’ Andreas Papandreou in 1987, in an interview with the American magazine, stated himself: "Greece has a superfood public sector that suppresses the private business. The issue is profit and it is a matter of survival for the Greek economy. If Greece cannot attract foreign companies to signal its participation in the technological revolution, then it is doomed to remain a tourist country. Our young people - listen - will emigrate and have a population of old people who will care for hotels." These were in 1987. In 1994, Father Mitsotakis said in this Chamber that as we go we go to the IMF. Everyone knew and everyone was silent. The Left was here, in this Chamber. What's happened all these years? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] One last thing: Last night...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u47	And you close, Demetrius.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u48	I'm closing, Mr. President. Last night, the "BLOOMBERG" wrote a new memorandum for 2018 with measures amounting to EUR 5.2 billion, which the Greek Government intends to sign with measures and a primary surplus of 3.5% of GDP in 2018.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u49	Shut up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u50	Finally comes the new memorandum. We will be here and we will fight next to this afflicting people, but, looking at him in the eyes, I have to tell him that he is also responsible for today’s mess. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u51	The floor will now be taken by the Deputy Minister, Mr. Petropoulos. By mistake of the Bureau yesterday - I take responsibility, it does not matter - but Mr Saridis was deleted. After that, after Mr Dimas, I believe that you will allow me to give him the floor, because it is not because he did not speak yesterday. Here, Mr. Petersburg, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. I was hoping for a more efficient debate today in this House on a top issue concerning the whole society without discrimination. Of course, Mr. Kremastinou's admonition is important. It remains to be seen then whether we really will find out the enormous problems social security problems in our country, in order to provide the solutions we need. It is a reasonable rule first to know what the problem is and then to pursue the solutions that you must bring. The Greek people are now aware of what the problem is in a situation which has had nothing to do with the possibilities that a social security system should have if it really took advantage of the potential that was shaped in its economic base over the years since 1932 that entered the foundations for the IKA and made better use of its reserves. I will not go back to exhausting issues that have already been said on several occasions. I will, however, talk about this critical time that is indeed dramatic, as Mr Cremastino said. For this dramatic situation, our Government has been shown to be in this position of responsibility. It is a responsibility to block the country's destructive course and the rights of its citizens as a whole, not only of workers and employees but of all, even those who try to survive in difficult conditions. I am talking about small and medium-sized businessmen and farmers, whom you say from the standpoint of counter-population, that you now care to save them. I will say what Beveritz, the father of social security in England, said in “44, that a critical period in the history of the world is the most appropriate time to bring about radical changes instead of simple corrections. For the first time - and that is why it is a government of responsibility and government of our time - this radical restructuring of social security is taking place under rules that the country's trade union movement is struggling to bring before the dictatorship and especially after the first years of postmopulation. It was a hard struggle that gave that healthy, innocent trade union movement of that time to have a social security system for all Greek citizens. Yiannis Theonas, an old trade union official, knows what he put on the front of his struggle then the Communist Party of Greece and that was it. If anyone disagrees with the content of the rules we introduce, the debate is indeed welcome. I would like first of all to say that this perspective has a future and the SYRIZA Government will develop a social security system with growth and with rules of progressive improvement of terms, but now we are here. We are with these pierced ruins that have remained in our hands and must, as I have said, at the depth of the desert to rescue a people who are going through a humanitarian crisis, sharing the little salt, the little bread and the little water we have, and we are doing so fairly, in terms of justice. If anyone has to tell us that we favour some people at the expense of others, tell us to fix it, because we want to fix it. Universities teachers, who are evacuating on a case-by-case basis the scientific reason for dressing up the simplicity of the ordinary citizen who knows no law, claim here that we are violating the rules of justice and equality that the Constitution imposes, because the very rich, the same aspirin takes and the very poor or nothing, so the richer must not pay more than the one who does not. Is this the logic that the Constitution allows us to even think in this Parliament and, indeed, people who speak in the name of scientific responsibility and the enlightened scientific speech that should be passed on to their students in our universities? Is that the standard of morality for the future we want, for a society for which we are fighting for? Political feasibility has outweighed scientific responsibility. There's another explanation I can't give. But let's see what we have in front of us. We have to solve a riddle, a problem unresolved, if we do not take measures, that is, 25% of GDP reduction, 25% of unemployment, the huge lack of money in social security. As I have said before, before the end of every month we are struggling to see how we can settle pension debts. This government must do this - and I assure you it will - every month. And what you're saying is, we're gonna be a little late, we're gonna go back on the evaluation, or, at other times, we're gonna have elections now because there's no reason for our government to successfully complete this effort. And it is an effort that has been announced with commitments from all, with a law passed in July 2015. However, those who then voted for the law had today to show consistency and support it with the same consistency that we then had to agree on. Under their own pressure and claim we agreed. And we were told not to be late. Immediately after that, they began to "play delays" and they no longer vote. "One time we saved the country. We don't want to save her anymore." It's an explanation. It's worse, unfortunately. Describing, selfish, petty political selfishness. I do not want to talk like this because I really want to have a reason to motivate everyone in a joint effort. But I think it's pointless to do it. And when I try to challenge everyone's interest in finding solutions, then I regret it, because as I come down from this Step, I hear what you can imagine to undermine any good will, good proposal that we make.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u53	Say something about the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u54	Let me tell you about the bill. I would therefore like you, Mr Economou, to speak about your proposals. What are these proposals you have, because ours exist in the bill that you have not yet read, from what I understand from what you and the Democratic Assent are saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u55	I'm still young. I have time to read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u56	Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u57	I respect the parliamentary procedure, but not until the point of disgrace because I have the courtesy to know that I am not a parliamentarian, I am not an elected MP and I really have to respect all of you....
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u58	There's no way anyone could sneeze, Mr. Petropole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u59	But respect for the parliamentary procedure has two sides. I too must be decent and at least you, at least, think about and suggest, respond to your role. This proposal, which has been in place for so long, for so many months, adopts and fulfils, in our political view, the commitments we have made with your vote and pressure since July 2015. The difference is that we lay down justice and equality rules. You want to turn all that political commitment towards privatising social security and replacing the redistributive system from a system of capitalising. That's the difference. And that is the ideological and political difference with great conflicting loads from the past. And there will be conflicting loads in the future. You tell us to adopt Hardouvelis mail and it is Hardouvelis mail that would bring the solutions and we would not have to discuss anything today. First of all, to clarify this myth, that the mail Hardouvelis was the starting point of a proposal that never went to testing the negotiation process to see where it would end up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u60	You're the e-mail, you're the one who's been spending your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u61	Secondly, especially for insurance, it set certain conditions which we cannot even see. For example, those who were born since 1975 will receive pension as much as their contributions. Everyone will be retired after twenty years of insurance, i.e. the fewer, six thousand badges. And you're punishing us here because we're saying that the national pension will have a slight limitation for less than twenty years by 15. And you ask us why we are doing this when you have been taking the basis for twenty years, if at least you are adopting Hardouvel's mail and you are not rejecting it. As you call it, however, you obviously adopt it. Of course, the link to the income of benefits and the amount of benefits. Repeal after three years - from the beginning of death - of widow's pensions to the beneficiaries. We have been saying that for three years, and after fifty-seven there is no cut. And there's a whole series of other things that don't make sense to mention them to you, because my time will run out and I have to tell you some more. You are asking us what is going on with the Equity Fund. It is a fund which has really been demolished in obscurity without reserves. It is borrowed by IKA, borrowed by the EIB, and we must make it sustainable. And we make it sustainable. According to a study carried out by the Equity Fund after three years, it will begin to have surpluses and will begin to give a higher dividend. It's a dividend. It is not social security in the sense of participation and State budget. Unfortunately, I have to finish with some brief announcements. There is not a single fund that has no deficits today. Not even one! Even the so-called noble funds have long ceased to be noble, because their politeness relied on the high wages paid by the employees of the noble workplaces. And, of course, the contributions have been reduced so much that it cannot come out - and it does not come out - and it pays out of the workers' and employee's reserves, the small- and medium-sized-sized ones, what must be given for those due to the so-called noble funds. It's over. The CSAY had 53 million euros in deficits last year. The Legal Fund 59 or 69m euros. I don't remember well. The numbers are a lot, and sometimes I get confused. These are, in particular, the legal fund - which are making the biggest fight, because the mechanics fund pays the lawyers' pensions. I too am a lawyer, but I cannot tolerate myself with so many years of lawyer paying 1,900 euros - less than the unskilled worker - a contribution for my Fund and the new lawyer paying more than 120 euros from me over seven years. I can't stand it! It's not in our minds, and we're doing well to keep up with it. It costs me, dear friends. Ladies and gentlemen, it costs me too much. However, it is a fair cost to a Greece that is cracked, to support it and to go further than its steps. I'd have a lot of use to say. Unfortunately, time is very limited and I want to respect him. Thank you and I invite you to think and read well what I said. Yesterday, in fact, there was an unjust hearing about me with one of the representatives - not to say names and take on staff after the word - and it was said that disability pensions - Mr Nicolopoulos said so, because I did not explain it to him - are affected because we are reducing rates, making reductions in the disabled and others. I said again that we did not reduce them at all, but at all, we did not intervene at all on disability issues. We maintain all the provisions that have been in force. It was said "by Law 3863" and the side of the Democratic Compact flew to say that they did not apply it. Now I'm going to tell them that it has been true since 1951, just since then. They're so inconceivable!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u62	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u63	It's not just Law 3863. It's been since 1951, Mr. Economou. Read, finally, both old and new and responsible to the Greek people to talk about the substance. We have still not heard a proposal on the substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u64	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u65	Mrs. Christophilopoulou, what are you asking for?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u66	It's not about the Minister's speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u67	Excuse me, but you've spoken. You're not a parliamentary representative...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u68	It's not about the Minister's speech. I want to make a complaint not for this procedure. I want to denounce something that is happening in Parliament, Mr President. It's not about the Minister's speech. We'll have a chance to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u69	What within Parliament?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u70	I would like to speak for a minute, Mr President, to report something.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u71	Here, you have the reason for a minute, to see what's going on that I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u72	Mr President, I understood this. There are a number of operators' representatives. Some, indeed, of what I was told, have an appointment with Mr Petropoulos in the building now. This is not the first time that there have been bodies visiting the Greek Parliament. But it is the first time that they have been accompanied by not one, not two, but four, five, Mr President, police officers. And I want to tell you that they may have shut down the Clive Maximos, may the ducks have to give birth and shut down the National Garden, but is this Parliament being policed?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u73	Well, Mrs. Christophilopoulou...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u74	What are we doing? Are we accompanimenting the agencies? I denounce that. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Calm down! It's like I told you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u75	Good, you said it was like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u76	They're getting close. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u77	Sit down, please. We heard what you said, okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u78	Four cops!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u79	I am older than you in this Parliament. Incidentally, the President of Parliament, who is the most competent to answer you to what you have said, is here. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u80	I am sorry that Mrs Christophilopoulou raises this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u81	Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u82	You'll see why I'm sorry. Because yesterday an unacceptable event took place in the building, where trade union lawyers turned against parliamentarians and there were several acid dialogues, at the end of the bullying, within the House. I didn't give any meaning, even though they had flooded the sites and even though the episode was fixed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u83	Steady?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u84	That's why I'm saying I'm sorry, Mrs. Christophilopoulou, for taking the responsibility to say it. Because I didn't give any...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u85	At the prosecutor's, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u86	Mrs Christophilopoulou, the President of Parliament speaks! Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u87	I condemn the episode.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u88	Please, too! Do we want to hear the answer, yes or no? Some will agree, some will not accept it, but let the President of Parliament speak. For Christ's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u89	I did not give any follow-up - precisely because I am experienced and democratic - so that we do not give food to those who have already been since last afternoon six o'clock - for those who might not have strong voices from outside, as many others had strong voices and heard them yesterday and yesterday and yesterday and we hear them today - wanted to have events with which, in direct contact, they filled all the sites from yesterday afternoon until today. At the same time, the other was done by trade unionists - I will not call it unacceptable, it is within the limits of the gorgescu - to threaten all the Members from all the Chambers to have them removed according to their vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u90	We agree on that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u91	So what has been attempted and attempted today to continue in the same way, in view of the evening sitting, with an appointment given within the building, which is a specific area for Members and for their debates, while these appointments - and we must - be given to the offices of the parties and to special Chambers of Parliament which can be given, however - and since this morning there are bodies in the offices of the parties on the second floor - will not be allowed. In other words, there will be no verbal controversy or any other tension - plausible - between trade unionists and MPs. That's not the place, that's not the way. For all trade unions, my office is open, the offices of all parties, the Presidents of the parties, the parliamentary groups are open to say their demands, to press, to attend. The other won't go on. I am sorry you took the responsibility of bringing this to Parliament, because you gave me not the opportunity, but the unfortunate opportunity in the morning to tell you what was actually going to happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u92	Mr Apostolos has the floor for three minutes from the ministerial seat in order to clarify the issue raised by the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, Mr Brutsis. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u93	First of all, Mr Brutsi, in my position yesterday, I mentioned these issues in detail. Let me repeat, therefore, that as far as the aid management scheme as a whole is concerned, I would remind you of Law 4172/2013, which introduced this aid as a profit through the Greek farmer's business activity. And where it was for 2014 EUR 1.3 billion the income that the farmer would have declared from the production process, you added EUR 2.6 billion, i.e. you tripled, essentially, the income that entered into the taxpayers' process and was related to insurance. We, then, then, in 2015, brought in a regulation on the revenues of 2014 and from EUR 2,6 billion of the total aid, only EUR 266 million went into income and from EUR 1,75 billion to EUR 1,34 billion. This was therefore the situation that we had in our hands when we started the negotiations. As you can see, in the negotiations, what we were trying to keep as far as we could from the outside was that aid should not be regarded as income. But in the negotiation - which is why I said yesterday that this is a historic day for the rural area - we managed what was impossible. We have secured individual net tax-free income for the Greek farmer. Suddenly, where we were sitting and saying how we would keep the aid, we reached 9,100 euros for an average family with two children, as I said to you, plus about 1,900 to 2,000 euros for everyone, which concerns a portion of the aid that does not go into the taxable material, the income. So you realise that we have reached 11 000 euros. That's why I said it was really important. In relation to the part to which you refer, that is over 12 000, this concerns green and linked aid and is about 80 to 90 million euros. This, of course, will enter the income which is calculated as the taxpayer and for which, of course, if... [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] Listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u94	Let the Minister finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u95	I'm not finished. Listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u96	Mr. Bukkaro, you'll be on your way to Step later. Let him finish and answer him by step. So nothing is written in the Minutes. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u97	I said yesterday that, with these rules, over 85% and 90% of Greek farmers are exempted from taxation. And that's where it's cleared up now with the effects of the premium. It was proved yesterday that Greek farmers would have no burden, instead they would benefit from this process. Why? Because when we have as a benchmark 70% of the minimum wage - this is an income of around EUR 4,900 a year - it cannot fall below what is calculated for the insurance contribution. There, then, in the EUR 4,800 I am telling you, it is over 86%, 87% of the Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u98	I understand your point of view.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u99	So putting in not just those who are...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u100	Others you have convinced, others you have not convinced.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u101	...more than 12,000, but also the part of the basic support...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u102	Minister, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u103	I would like to make it clear, therefore, that, of course, because you know everything at once, whenever such arrangements are made, interministerial decisions are taken, there is a coordination work to which we will also be able to see this part still. I told you, the first approach we have is that there will be no charge, because 4,900 euros represent 90% of farmers...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u104	Please finish, Minister. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u105	I'm done. Don't worry. We know them and we'll deal with them. There will be no charge.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, please. I'd like to tell you the procedure. There are three colleagues here, Mrs Vultesis, Mr Manius, Mr Bukokouros. Mr Brutsis, as a parliamentary representative, has then asked for the floor. Three colleagues will follow, and then Mr Pafilis has asked for the floor. They haven't spoken since yesterday. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Papadopoulos, please! Calm down! If you want disputes, get out of the Chamber. This is not the case here. I will then give the floor to the Minister for Legislative Improvements and to answer one, two amendments or I do not know how many they will be. Mrs Buddhism has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I can see that lies are continuing. And how could I? It's not possible! The more you are saying, ladies and gentlemen, that you are now telling the truth, the more you remember the lies you were saying and continue to say. What's wrong with you? If you were lying in 2014, if you were lying in January 2015, if you lied about the referendum, you also lied in September, with open issues and today, so far, we've been constantly lying, it's a terrible thing! At least listen to one advice: Do not shout, “We speak the truth,” for everyone remembers your lies. And can I tell you one more thing? You haven't stopped lying. In April 2015 you said about insurance - Minister of Labour - that the financial situation of the Free Professional Insurance Agency is completely manageable and does not inspire any concern. The whole of paper had the Ministry saying that it had no issue with insurance. Not to say what Mr. Chakalotos said, who seems to be lying so far. He's been hurt by the letters he sends when to the IMF, when to Brussels, and he's been lying so far as we're talking. In other words, at the joint press conference that he gave with Mr Stathakis and Mr Katrugalo on 12 April, he said he would not reduce duty. That's where all of this was said. Mr Katrugalos himself said that he would not be a minister if all this were to happen. We can't make it anymore. I am presenting for the Minutes and for any fellow Member and journalist who wants the lies about the insurance and the lies until the last minute. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Sophia Vultesis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Well, it's not possible to tell us you're now telling the truth. The nightmare is this, that you're only lying. You've been identified with the lie. Of course, you say this to talk not to the normal people who have not voted for you or who have voted for you, but have understood their mistake. You say that for those who are looking for an excuse and say, What would others do? They're asking what we'd do? We wouldn't hold fifty days from now, we'd be the railroad line of I.D.'d, the central artery of the country. We've been watching Chaves' orphans lie these days. We hear Madour in Venezuela saying: "Only President Madour could give twelve increases since April 2013". We see the other orphan of Chaves, Mr. Tsipras, here says: "Only we will save pensions. We are the only ones who fight." The truth is, the orphans of Chaves have led both countries to the destruction. And well Venezuela is the first in oil reserves that she has now decided to reduce, because she has not kept in her factories. Where - as Mr Tsipras said - will the employers pay? Because they like to say to the left 'the bad people'. Where are you gonna get the employers to pay? Of those who cannot carry their goods to Idomen and who are charged with 10,000 per train, will you find employers? Will you find the ones whose industrial output was reduced by 15% only in February and since then it has been reduced every three months? By who? Of those active in building, technical work, which say that one out of four workers who lose their job in this area is due to the capital controls? Because, gentlemen, we - to answer the previous question - would never impose capital control on the country in order to negotiate heroic negotiations. You're lying in the long run and lies in direct consumption. You always identify the New Democracy with the International Monetary Fund. I'm sorry, but Mr. Tsipras has been chasing it since 2013. He was in the belly of the hull. Since then you have been chasing it in Washington, Lima, Peru, in Brussels, in Davos. Where we're losing them, where we find them, behind Mrs. Lagard is. And finally it's New Democracy's fault and it's a match! Did we bring them? We sent them a letter last summer? And I want to say something about the single fund and close with it. Of course you have denounced this single fund as tragic if it were to happen and it never happened in a New Democracy. I would like to say this: there is a fund that you are completely abolishing and you are not taking it anywhere, Mr Petropoulou. What exactly do you mean you're going to do with the journalists' insurance business? Because you let it die. You're saying that just tomorrow morning, Nitshu's widow won't get any help. That's what you're saying! You're not saying anything else if I heard it right. And I want you to tell me who you're serving. Because you are not serving neither the state that will pay EUR 175 million, the funds insured, nor the state itself, which pays contributions for the Athenian Agency. He won't pay contributions now? Won't he pay for the Athenian Agency, the Press Secretariat and the ERT? So, who do you want to help and you have the state to pay? Why have you never applied the direct invoicing of advertising in the media? Who are you serving - will you tell us now - and you want the state to be deprived of EUR 175 million per year? Journalists are not only the one in the hundred front, they are eighteen thousand people who currently have pensions of 1,000 euros. Who are you serving in this way? Who's gonna win these 175 million? Without - I repeat - applying our law on direct invoicing, you are constantly giving them an extension. Because you know well, too, because you are well aware of the fact that you were a lawyer in the Union - that the post is not a contribution in favour of third parties. It was part of the profits that our employers decided to pay instead of employers' contributions. And because some people did not pay - to know this House - the advertisers, who meanwhile said 'it's ours', were used as mediators. Suddenly while they were intervening - you know, you will confirm that - they said 'this is our money'. And now they're going to eat 20%. Why? I want you to tell me who you're serving with all this. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u108	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u109	Mr. Petropoulou, sit down and the two speakers are over. Two more questions will be heard and I will give you the floor to answer. But to any question, there is no Minister's intervention. Mr. Manius has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning to all and many years for both the Day and the days they've been through. Of course, time is too short to develop my positions on insurance, which is a matter that happened privilegedly to know, because I was one of the three fellow doctors, along with Vassilis Laopodis and Kostas Karagiotas, who made the pension for doctors in proportionate studies, etc. I would like to make two, three comments. First observation is that I couldn't imagine that in such a short time from so few people there will be so many lies. This is for the book Gina. This combination of lies with the process of alchemy, reading numbers has brought us all into a clumsiness. But why are all these lies being said? First of all, I didn't hear anyone say that the insurance policy had to change and that it was being destroyed. If the insurance was good in '91 and '92 the first change from New Democracy - I will not judge it - what was needed? Then, the effort of PASOK, the effort of Reppa, the other change made by Mrs Fani Petralia, these changes that followed, why were they taking place after we had an amazing insurance policy? But what is it that disturbs political opponents in Parliament and all these lies are spoken? They're being bothered by two, three things. The first is reform. We are finally going to another structure and another concept. We cannot have the former noble funds and resurrect them, firstly, because we do not want them, they are outside our politics and our philosophy, and secondly, because we cannot resurrect the dead. I'm a retired man. Retired person I came to the House. Of the 4.300 euros received by the Director, the coordinator of the HSH with thirty-five years of service - I left with thirty-eight years - has become the state-run operator of EUR 1,700 and if he gets from the CSH. Since when do you have one single, ladies and gentlemen? Since 2014, I've been a retired. Does it bother us that we'll get it, but it's reduced by 10%? I want to take it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u111	20%.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u112	And 20%, because with your own policy, I'll never get it. Because since the funds are deficits, how am I supposed to get one? But it is not a personal matter. It is therefore annoying, because this is where we have reform. And what else is bothering you? The fact that in this reform, with whatever problems - Mr Petropoulos said enough - there is a perception that there is a redistribution in two ways: One way is that the state finances from the budget this low pension of EUR 380, but it applies different contributions based on income. You can't take that. It is too hard to swallow it because, in your opinion, you are expressors of a policy that wants equality that will make the rich and the poor one equal. We do not have that view. And so while there are a million seven hundred and fifty thousand pensioners who have suffered nothing from their pensions, it will not be reduced by the two million six hundred pensioners - how many all of them are? - you're yelling. What was your opinion?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u113	No one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u114	Please don't interrupt me, Mr. Economou. Do this on the channels. This is a parliament. No one. And I'm telling you this: What was your opinion? I do not need to make a political analysis and tell you what neoliberalism says. Your view is put forward in practice, i.e. horizontal cuts, not only in pensions but in all, from health to anywhere. Who do horizontal cuts favour? Always the sovereigns, the high-ranking ones. Who do they condemn? The small and medium-sized ones you're now thinking of. Your view is practically neoliberal, that is, overconcentration of wealth. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. I was not as disturbed as I was by two, three events. First he came to the Chamber of Parliament - I would not comment on it, if he was not a special speaker from Potami - argument by the far-right racist candidate in Austria to strengthen the arguments against SYRIZA. I know, there is ideological poverty, there is political poverty, there is poverty of a reality. I wouldn't say that at all. However, I say to the chosen fellow Members who are presented with a so-called popular person, who is a person with the lies that opens bad streets, far more ugly than the ones working on Golden Dawn, who is who it is and who tells who it is. Also, some things were used that are previously known. Did my compatriot, my apology MP, remember Marfin's dead in 2016? I was not a MP in 2011, in 2012, in 2013, in 2014, in 2015. Weren't there, then, 5 May, to come and honor them? And he was badly treated - I say it as a symbiote - in this way. It had to be kept a minute's silence, and from there on, someone - if they wanted - had to talk about it, however, would not have been able to talk about it. Be careful, though. They understand, people understand all the terrain. They're despair terraces. In any case, I feel that a number of colleagues - not all - and some wings have opened a path that may not have a return. It is good for colleagues from the Central Association to take a look at the history of Baimar to see who opened the way to fascism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u115	Mr Boukokouros has the floor, and then Mr Brutsi. Here you go, Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, the last things that have been done today in Parliament's Chamber are, in my humble view, the President of this House and is trying to impose the proper functioning of Parliament in all places. From there on, however, we do not have a short memory, ladies and gentlemen. I have heard many colleagues from the government majority and this morning and last night talking about depriving political and public speech, talking about bullying MPs and all of this. The New Democracy is firmly and consistently condemning all these phenomena affecting parliamentarianism. But, ladies and gentlemen, do you want me to remind you of who has made the norm of verbal violence in public speech and political speech over the last three years? Would you like me to remind you today, Sunday morning, of certain designations that were in the daily phrase of SYRIZA officials when they were in opposition? Every form of violence whether it is verbal, whether it is raw violence or any other violence we must condemn it firmly and consistently, and not condemn it when we are in the chairs of the opposition and motivate it or rejoice on it when we rise on the government benches. Let's get this straight. You have huge political responsibilities for the fall of the public political speech in Greece and for this verbal political violence, which we hope will not take another kind of dimension. I now come to the Minister for Rural Development, Mr Apostleu. Today, as if nothing were happening, not only did it announcing the taxation of subsidies, subsidies for farmers, but it told us that they would also be counted on their insurance contributions. This is where we've exceeded every record of distortion of reality. Mr Apostle comes in and invokes Law 4172/2013 and says the previous government, the Samaras government, had decided to tax the single payments of farmers. This is, of course, false, Mr Apostlelos, because, in Article 21 of the law to which you referred, but also in his explanatory statement, he clearly states that specifically for the purpose of determining the income from agricultural business revenues from business transactions include income from the production of agricultural, livestock, forestry, logging and fishery products. It does not mention subsidies anywhere. So lie, Minister. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Boukoros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] From there on, let us come to the bill because time is very little, Mr President. The insurance that the government brings today claims to have a class mark and is social law. Who told you that when you dismantle the middle class, without giving anything to the socially weaker, it is social justice? So, the socially weakest are waiting for the destruction of all the rest as a profit? This may exist within the political framework produced by SYRIZA in recent years, but there is nowhere else. You are exterminating free professionals, scientists with excessive tax contributions, because it is not insurance since they are completely combined with their income. But from there on, because time is too short and previous and proficient colleagues have literally reduced the government's arguments, I would like to make two - three political observations. Gentlemen of the Government, the bill you bring to the Greek people is heavy and is worth more than EUR 12 billion. In 2015 there are more than 3 billion measures, the EUR 5.4 billion Chakatou package, the EUR 3.6 billion precautionary memorandum and only last night the valid news agency "BLOOMBERG" informs us that a new memorandum is being prepared in 2018 of EUR 5.2 billion. On the days of SYRIZA, who were expected by those who voted for you as a manna from heaven, it literally rains one after another. So the bill is 12 billion, and no class mark has. An equation down for the entire Greek people, for all the social classes, for all the professional groups. And it must finally be in this Chamber that the myth of the competent negotiators of the SYRIZA - ANEL government should be finished. You are not negotiators, privators of the pain and anger of the Greek people. You have resented, as an opposition, the suffering that the crisis has brought, and today all you are concerned about is how you will bleed out the bleeding that you are causing to the Greek people. The sooner you leave for both Greeks and Greece, but ultimately - listen to this - it may be better for you too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u117	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u118	Mr Apostle, the same thing that I said to Mr Petropoulos, that is, you are keeping the remarks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u119	Mr President, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u120	It cannot be done every time a Minister gets snuck away from answering the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u121	It is a personal matter for the simple reason that he cannot be a Member of Parliament, to the Minister, say that he is lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u122	You will be given the floor, but I have announced Mr. Brutsi. Mr. Apostle, I know whether it's personal or not. When I'm on the bench, leave it alone. Sit down and I'll give you the floor after Mr. Brutsi. Mr Brutsi has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's legislative initiative, which is called reform, is all it is not reform. It is essentially a pension reduction mechanism which turns insurance contributions into tax rates. This is a summary of what was tabled yesterday in the plenary and which we are debating. Along with this, a tax bill, which turns our memory back, has been tabled, as it refers to the heavy tax burden on HISA. As I said very briefly, in order to quantify the size of the tax burden through the solidarity tax, it is EUR 1.8 billion from the pocket of each Greek taxpayer, equivalent to half of the HPAI. I say this in comparison to the government, to remember, Mr Ministers, the famous "we will tear all the tax measures apart, and first the ENPIA that we are going to abolish". Today you still bring half of HISPIA. And that was not enough, but you tabled an amendment yesterday. The amendment, for which I spoke to you this morning, could have the title 'the absolute red line' or 'My word is a contract'. And I'm talking about Mr. Chakaloto. Who does not remember, ladies and gentlemen, the famous 12,000 euros you have been feeding the Greek people in shame? 12,000 euros taxed to all Greeks without exception. Instead, in EUR 9,500 tax-free New Democracy, you negotiated it, you reached EUR 9,100 and the statement by Mr Tsakalotou, who since yesterday played online in the Ministry of Finance, with you, Mr Katrugale, who knew you were an absolute defender of EUR 9,100, was that you would resign if you violated the EUR 9,100 ‘red’ line. Today the Greek people will know that the tax has come to EUR 8,663. This is the truth of the government and the dignity it gave the Greeks. But that's not good enough. Two very serious issues arise within this amendment. For one, I received an answer just before the Minister for Rural Development. To be heard by the farmers. Two months ago, I was on TV with Mr. Petropoulos. I raised the question of whether agricultural subsidies will have the same burden on 27.2%, i.e. contributions. Then Mr. Petropoulos said this is impossible and it's summer night dreams. I have been silent for two months, and today this amendment confirms the position of the Minister for Rural Development that farmers will now be taxed on agricultural income - because it is taxation - with 27.2% of their subsidies. The second has to do with the tax. I have asked for a reply from Mr Alexiadis, because the amendment tabled shows one thing, that more than EUR 20,000 is not tax-free. It's a big deal. We ask for clarification before we permanently place ourselves. I'm waiting for Mr. Alexiadis' placement. This amendment is not solved either by statements by the Minister for Rural Development or by Mr Alexiadis. He wants a legislative initiative. We're waiting. Now, let's go to our issues. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to be honest once again, as I always do, and when I was Minister and have fought for two and a half years in the ministry and today as a Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy. Minister, you screwed up. You have done so and what you are bringing today as an insurance policy, which I said is not a reform, is a ruthless copy of our own initiative that was ready to be implemented on 1 January 2015. You took it, you abused, you changed the replacement rates, you put on a little ideology and you unified all the funds, which is why you are taking a left-hand view, abolishing the autonomy of the OGA and within it you now bring the Tsipras - Kammenos account - because it is now EUR 3,1 billion. Question: Mr Brutsi, have you balanced them? I'm the first person to say it and I'll keep saying it. Decades, ladies and gentlemen, the country's insurance system has had pathogens, nursings, distortions, inequality, was a mosaic full of exceptions. We tried to correct them over time, but also for the two and a half years I was in the Ministry, just like my predecessors. I ask: When were these efforts made, where was the Left? The left has always been on the sidewalk - you, SYRIZA gentlemen - and you attacked populism in any reform and state rationalisation trying to do so. And because things must be said by their name, unfortunately, they are accompanied by you, Minister, your past. Here I keep your picture, when about two years ago - when I was trying to get the ministry to order - you were in the Constitution, along with the so-called protestants of yours and fed the tenth pension. I keep her for the historical record of the House, so you remember what you said and what you say today, two years later. I'm filing it. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above photograph, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] One more thing. Because Mr. Petropoulos just before said about the matter of undermining, and you say so too, SYRIZA colleagues, undermining the New Democracy, the party that always puts Greece and the country above the party benefit? [[Noise in the Chamber]] So I keep and submit to the Minutes what will be undermining. Look what's gonna mean undernourishment. Central poster of SYRIZA: "We pay nothing until they collapse." Who? Would New Democracy or Greece fall? You were able to instruct people not to pay contributions, not to pay taxes. That's who you are, Mr. Ministers. You're unacceptable! You have undermined the country, poisoned society, divided it, and you have the courage today to come and talk about New Democracy for undermining, the party that has always supported the national effort. I'm tabling this for the historical memory of the House. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above poster, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Decent pensions. Another SYRIZA poster. I heard the Prime Minister talking about the dignity of pensions. Look at the poster. He is a major pensioner - I do not know - who denounces the New Democracy for a lack of decent pensions. You were supposed to come and give him decent pensions, the thirteenth pension, the one-off, the subsidiary, the increase in all pensions, the reinstatement. I'm filing it for the historical memory, and I'm explaining it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above poster, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, when I was at the Ministry, I was also trying to house. I've received a situation from my predecessors. I never came back to say what was going on. The duty of the Minister and of each government is to stand forward and look forward. Build on what he inherits and change what's not right. That's what I did. All you did was take down. You didn't leave anything upright. You hid Helios, the biggest reform that demonstrated the monkeys' pensions, and since August of '15 you did not regain "ELIO". Why? Because it was the first reductions in SYRIZA that you were hiding, 2% horizontal of the main pensions and 6% of the ancillary pensions in 1915 and if HLIOS came out in August, which was now publicly conquered by journalists, children who graduated in the country's insurance, your reductions would appear to be yours, which was the first reduction and the collapse of the minimum pension of 486 euros. Did you stop "ITLA"? Do you know what 'ATLAS' was, ladies and gentlemen? The largest part of the insurance after the ELIO. I presented him in December of 14 and left him a legacy to the next. Whoever enters the Ministry of Labour today will see his badges for twenty-one years. It enabled the pensions to come out in one day if you continued trying. I handed it over to you, and what did you do? You abandoned it. Why, Minister? So you don't have to show there's a state all the time? They are, that is what you have demolished and that is why today the Greek people and the pensioners are paying. What do retired people pay? Just 20% horizontal reduction for those who take it. And because I hear about a single, I remind you when I left the ministry I had given EUR 3.1 billion of a one-off payment to ninety-seven thousand pensioners and on the day I left the ministry, you did not even give a single one. In fact, especially for the single market, I am accompanied and haunted, Minister, this text here. It is the document I have received against my own regulation on the one-off, which you thought is inhuman, which was much more mild than your own cut today and you did so as a legal office. I shall put this before you, Mr President, more so to see your contradictions. What did you say yesterday, what you say today and how you act. You're haunted by your mistakes and your past. This is what the Greek people are paying today. Main pensions. In addition to the horizontal cuts in '15 we have 10% to 30% horizontal reduction for all new pensioners and in two years from now and the current pensioners, for reasons of inequality in the insurance system, will be assimilated. The pensions of today's pensioners will also be reduced by 10% to 30% horizontal for all. I say this, so that we know it and agree as a state and as a state. The question of ancillary services. The zero deficit clause, which you denounced and which is reform, had the prospect of cutting supplementary pensions of 4.5% recorded in the State budget for 2015 and 0% for 2016, because the country's economy and budgetary model were going very well. What did you do? 6% in 2015 and 20% in 2016 and God knows where the cut is yet to go! The issues of disabled and widowhood, I don't even talk about them. They are cuts that are very brutal and very unpleasant. Lower pension. You have received the minimum pension at EUR 486 and you are giving it to the Greek Parliament today at EUR 320 to EUR 384, Minister. Because Mr Tsipras spoke yesterday to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and said of a decent national pension. I would therefore inform you that this is a horizontal reduction in the basic pension made by SYRIZA from EUR 486 - so you received it - and deliver it to EUR 320 to EUR 384. The question of the ESS. You're not telling me, Minister, the e-mail Hardouvelis you've obviously seen. It was the one Mr. Tsipras here said and threatened the New Democracy, Mr. Samaras, then, all the Members of the New Democracy. And he said - and you will see it online - "Don't dare and sign the latest evaluation", i.e. the e-mail Hardouvelis, "because you have to take into account the first anti-population party". And Mr Tsipras said 'I also send a message to Europe'. And, of course, you also took all the e-mail Hardouvelis, which included limiting interventions in insurance, because it had now balanced the system, EUR 310 million, you have doubled it to EUR 3.1 billion. This is your intervention, which is very easy to obtain from the EUR 12.7 billion for the period 2015-2016, the GDP you have thrown out, and of course a piece you have agreed with the troika to throw it into the insurance. It's just so. In other words, pensioners, workers, engineers, lawyers, doctors, farmers must know today that none of what was happening and coming to legislation by SYRIZA would exist if you did not do that damage to the economy. One more thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u124	And you'll hang up with this, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u125	I shall conclude, Mr President. I would like to say to you: And if you still took power on January 25, 2015, you won power with lies, with deception, with populism, with gatherings of indignant in the Constitution, where you were leading with Mr. Tsipras, Mr. Katrugale.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u126	With the vote of the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u127	And if you were still doing so for power then, but you continued the reforms and structural changes that we had started, none of them would have happened. But you went to the logic of Mr Varoufakis' plan X and the capital controls were the consequence. So the collapse of the economy, populism and demagogy have brought this damage to the economy, and that is what we are paying for.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u128	In conclusion, Mr Colleague, you have no more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u129	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. In short, because we also need to send a message to the world: look, when neither the numbers prosper nor the governments fall. I therefore recommend that you wear safety belts, not the launching of the growth you have taken, but the conflict that you will have in the next period with society, which will be severe and which will be fatal for you. As far as insurance is concerned, I have to say that the challenges of insurance for New Democracy remain open. Not in the sense of populism that you put when you were opposition, but with respect for the financial framework that is in existence, with budgetary balance, we should restore injustices, distortions in people who are affected today, in injustices that exist, and this New Democracy will soon do so, because we are the real hope, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few words before I give my position to my colleague Mr Bored. Firstly, I would like to ask the parties who intend to submit a request for a roll-call vote to do so as soon as possible - I am not saying now, but in the early afternoon - so that the services of this House can prepare themselves, so that we do not waste time at 10 a.m. That's the one thing. Secondly, there will be no secondary legislation, just minor interventions. So I reply to a request from Mr Loverdos, who, after the four Members of Parliament, will have a slight intervention, as will the other Members of Parliament at some point, three minutes. I think that because it will help the whole Chamber and because I had not announced it we should give the floor for five minutes to Mr Katrugalo, who wants to say legislative improvements and say which parliamentary amendments he is accepting. I think it is useful for the positions from now on and for Members and for Members of Parliament. Then, for a personal matter, as Mr Apostleus said, he will have the floor. And then we keep going, like we have here. Ladies and gentlemen, before I leave the Chair, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, thirty-nine members of the Piraeus Mountain Planter Association "Olympus". The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor. I hope you'll be done in five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, I begin with the legislative improvements. The most important are two transitional provisions. In order to be able to replace the ad as a resource for the EDEAP, there will be a transitional period and the relevant arrangements for the abolition of the notice will apply from 1 August 2016.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u132	Why not since January 1st like the others?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u133	Because it is a derogation from a negotiation agreement and a Memorandum of Understanding, which your governments have undertaken over time. There is also a transitional period for the entry into force of pension arrangements for the Security Body and the Armed Forces from 1-7-2016, because until then a new special salary for the Security Body and the Army will be drawn up and there will be special provisions, such as the introduction of a parallel year for the Security Body, which will facilitate the more effective synergy of the insurance bill with the wage bill. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] There is a fair request from the same workers from the Security and Army bodies, that the pension due to death be given on the same terms as the pension due to incapacity, as this category of workers obviously differs from everyone else, because it is at risk in the course of their duties much more than in any other category. I should like to say here that it was self-evident and should have been predicted from the outset. This omission is due to the fact that we reiterated in Article 4 of our own law the provision of Article 2 of Law No.3865/2010, where, obviously, there is no intention of the authors of this law either - it had been omitted to report the pension due to death and had been included 'only because of incapacity'. It's obvious that when we regulate the elsson, the accident or the injury, we have to regulate it as well. When we protect ourselves from evil, we must also protect against hand. I think these are the basics. And there are other requests that emerge from the debate, requests from the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association, requests from lawyers in terms of contributions, you will see them, and matters of representation. These are the most important. I come to the amendments now. The ministers are accepted. Our amendment relates mainly to the organisational aspects of the Ministry of Labour and the OAED and to the integration of the EFF, the pre-pension fund, to the single body, precisely to deal fully with the issues of social security. Politically, I would like to point out here that we do not think the banks' responsibilities, their obligations, have been removed to finance this pre-pension arrangement. We do not want to repeat the constant practice of publicising private obligations. We are dealing with this issue as it stands, and we are looking forward to seeing how we can regulate this political openness. As far as the legislative amendments are concerned, Amendment No 402/3 is accepted by Mr Bardakis. It's for the childbirth allowance. From a misconception of the services - not because of us, but because of an earlier situation - there has been an obligation to refund an allowance paid. They're obviously unconscious. There is also a corresponding provision from Mr Vardakis again under Amendment No 407/6 to set up a Committee on Agricultural Accidents. For years this committee has not been set up, so that there is no effective protection. Also, there is an amendment by Mr Vardakis and other colleagues from other parties, as far as I know - I do not know if they are signed, I have the number in front of me - for the contribution of pension agencies, which adjusts this contribution to twenty minutes. It is partly accepted - and I will now say the parts of my amendment - that of my colleague, Mrs Christophilopoulou, and other PASOK Members and that of Mr Diaras, in so far as I am coated. It's about disability issues. Like I said,
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u134	Is it just PASOK MPs, or is it from all parties? Say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u135	And Mr. Dimitras. I don't know if it's anyone else, if there's another one I'm missing. I'm talking about them, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u136	It's from the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u137	What part of the amendment? You're all accepting it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u138	Oh, no. I'll tell you now. Let me see the signatures. Excuse me, Mr. Economou. I didn't do it on purpose. I read the signatories of the amendment, because you are, in the end, right. I hadn't noticed the signatures. It's the river. I read the signatories, so that there is no misunderstanding: Christophilopoulou, Barriots, Koutsoukos, Kegeroglou, Economou and Mr Diaras in their own amendments. Here, as I have repeatedly said, we did not introduce interventions on disability issues. We maintained the existing regime. So everything that has been heard about cuts is obviously inaccurate and inappropriate. Which parties do I accept from the amendment? I'll name them. I just want to say the reasons for the acceptance first. This is a provision that benefits of all kinds should be given as a priority to disabled persons. That's a good request because of their situation. Also, the extension of the provisions of n.e.m. 169/2007 to other categories of disability which, having subsequently been foreseen, are not included in the arrangement. It could be considered that it is not part of the regulation as it has been formulated. On the contrary, I do not accept them because I disagree with them, but because they must be dealt with within the committee which - I remind you - is responsible for rationalising and optimising existing benefits, but within the framework of the existing pension expenditure for people with disabilities. So we cannot take partial action, because they will have an ad hoc character and not the globality that is needed to tackle the issue seriously. Therefore, from this amendment by Mrs Christophilopoulou and the other colleagues I have named, I accept from Article 7 Section A and Article 9 the addition, only of this, - only one is in Article 9 - none of Article 10 et seq. In Article 27, I accept Section A. In Article 29, the only addition. In Article 35, Section A. These. I must refer to three amendments which I do not accept, although I agree with their content, because I think that further consideration is needed. It is Amendment No 424/19 by SYRIZA colleagues for the conversion of subsidiary funds from the branches of free traders, lawyers and others into professionals, which coincides with Mrs Christophilopoulou's amendment No 415/11. Because I do not have it in front of me, I do not know if other Members of the Democratic Alliance are also signed. My view is as follows: The first pillar of main and public security must provide a full and decent pension. Supplementary nature can only be obtained from the professional funds of the second pillar. On what condition? That the first pillar, i.e. the main, public, redistributive pension, provides decent pensions as close as possible to the original level of living. From that point on, every professional sector must have the opportunity to set up its own funds - the professionals of the second pillar - and I had stated from the outset at the beginning of the debate that had taken place - unfortunately incomplete, not under the responsibility of the Ministry...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u139	What legal persons are these?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u140	This is exactly one of the issues that needs to be considered, Mr Economou. I have therefore invited the scientific associations - medical, legal, the Technical Chamber - if they wish to move existing supplementary pensions to professionals to tell me so that we can also cover the objective of supplementary protection, but also reduce the contributions, which if 11% of supplementary insurance is taken into account, are indeed wonderful. There was no similar response, due to the withdrawal of the unilateral from the dialogue between these professional-scientific organisations, and that was why it was not possible to deal with the issue in time. The reason why the request now is not accepted is because there are many technical and legal details to be considered. For example, there is a proportionate study to see what is going to be done with the payment of the pensions of the current supplementary pensioners. Therefore, I do not think it is mature to deal with, and that is why I do not accept the amendment, and not because I do not accept this proposal in substance. Similarly, in Amendment No 424/19 there is a proposal for the possibility of facilitating free-traders in the first five years not being treated with a money deposit but with a pension netting, which I consider to be reasonable, but which also requires clarification and is to be examined in the future. There is an amendment No 406/5 by Mr Ephremidis. Mitafidis, Michelogannakis and other SYRIZA Members who want to improve Article 50, which is a very positive intervention for the responsibility of the shareholders of public limited companies. I accept the argument, for the most part, in this direction. On the contrary, I have heard from the New Democracy that perhaps we should regulate the issue of venture capitals, i.e. companies financing newly-financed companies that usually have entrepreneurship. I have heard that from the Vice-President, Mr Georgiadis. In view of these facts, I think that Article 50 in total must be reviewed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u141	Mr. Georgiadis didn't say anything like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u142	No, he told me privately. I'm clarifying it. He did not accept the amendment. Wait a minute, so I don't get confused. He said to me: look at this particular issue. I did not say that she accepted the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u143	Good, Minister. Please abide by the statement of reasons for the amendments you do not accept.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u144	I'm short. Excuse me. Therefore, I withdraw Article 50 as a whole in order to be re-examined in view of the need to improve it, in particular in view of the arguments expressed by SYRIZA. Now, Mr President, because I am in Stepma, do you want to give me three minutes for comments on what has been heard or do you want me to take the floor later? For my second-guess, I'm looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u145	It will help the dialogue to say it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u146	The bells go to Article 50!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u147	I reserve the possibility of a comprehensive review of the arguments that have been heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u148	Is that what you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u149	Is that what you're asking?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u150	I was just saying now if I was allowed to talk for three minutes about things that have already been heard. If I have the Bureau's permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u151	Please, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u152	I would particularly like to refer to the inaccuracies which have first been heard by my colleague Mr Tindemans, whom I particularly welcome. Terrible things have been heard, for example, that the burden on free professionals for categories of income up to EUR 40,000 will be 80% and that on categories of income of EUR 100,000 they will be up to 90%. As I said in my first speech, 81% of the self-employed and 70% of the professional craftsmen have reductions rather than burdens on the new system. No one bears a cumulative tax and insurance burden over 55% of his income, even these very high categories. The mistake made by Mr. Dendias is that he calculates insurance contributions for the income of EUR 100,000 as a whole, and explicitly predicts that insurance contributions are due up to EUR 70,000. I have also heard from Mr Brutsi recently that our law was a misguided law of the same. Not only did I ever find such a copy, but to remind you of Mr Brutsi's previous version that it is not the work of the Greeks in this particular bill, but of a firm and French one. I would remind you again that Law 3863/2010 and Law 3865/2010, which actually provided for implementation on 1 January 2015, would apply. Not only did you have a law prepared but not even the circulars to implement the law that you were supposed to implement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u153	After there was an election!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u154	And you knew you'd lose them, Mr. Economou? So you didn't have to...?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u155	It was all ready, Minister. Not that kind of lies.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u156	I am not using the term'lie' because I do not want to exacerbate the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u157	Do you have a speech? Twenty minutes of speech, Mr. President. It doesn't make any legislative improvements!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u158	Oh, no. I have requested permission to make a few comments in the previous ones, with the President's permission, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u159	You speak. It's not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u160	The clarifications on the amendments were necessary and useful.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u161	With the Bureau's permission I did so, but so that there is no tension on procedural matters, I will continue in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u162	Again? Are we going to have time to get second-guessed?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u163	Twenty minutes of speech, Mr President! That's not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u164	Mr. Apostle has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u165	Ladies and gentlemen - and I particularly address the Members of the New Democracy - at some point the truth will come out. Seventeen Members of the New Democracy Party, those in the House today, in November 2014, tabled an amendment to the relevant Minister and asked to address the issue of the taxation of aid. The Minister's answer is an issue that exists, but I cannot answer you because I have not assessed the consequences.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u166	You're legally bringing it, Minister. It's your law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u167	The answer we got, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u168	Today you bring law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u169	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u170	Please. You were asking the Minister then...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u171	Rhetoric is the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u172	We're on. Ask the seventeen Members who tabled this amendment. Secondly, you know that there is a ministerial decision by the Scandalidis - Kuchela since 2011, which says that the aid, compensation and subsidies are part of the profit from business rural activities.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u173	Does the law say so?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u174	So that's not what we say to Mr. 4173/2013. Savvaidou herself, the former Secretary-General, expressly states that this is all the same. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] At that time, spring 2015, when the process of submitting tax returns from all the taxpayers opened, all the offices were stressed that we have this problem here. All the reinforcements go in. And that's where we made the intervention, and we took the backup. At last, dig that!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u175	You didn't take them off, you put them on. You're legislating today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u176	Mr. Megamystakas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u177	Mr. President, excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u178	Minister, have you finished?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u179	Mr President, just a minute. So today, Mr Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u180	I heard you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u181	Why don't you want to hear? Listen, Mr. Brutsi. Yesterday, then...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u182	Mr. Besyropoulou, you're under system!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u183	Mr President, this is clearly the case. We were in negotiation, and we had up to EUR 12 000 off-tax payments. And what did we do in the negotiation?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u184	For the first time, subsidies are taxed on SYRIZA! The Minister's position is difficult. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u185	You're legislating today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u186	This EUR 11 000 will be tax-free for farmers. Do you know what this thing means? That these aids, this 50% that goes in to calculate, over 90% of farmers will not be charged a single euro - digest it - not only for the tax which it does not pay, but also for the premium. Hey, that's the reality!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u187	Go out and tell them. Come to Macedonia and Pella!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u188	We are talking with numbers, we are not talking in general and we are not talking vaguely.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u189	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u190	Mr. Carras, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u191	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u192	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u193	Wait a minute, Mr. Brutsi. Do you have the floor? You don't have him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u194	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u195	Sit down, please. You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u196	He's a parliamentary representative, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u197	Mr. Carras, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u198	I'd like a supplement. Thank you, Mr President. Minister, if you're so kind as to accept in transition...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u199	Mr President, I want the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u200	You don't have the floor, Mr. Carras. Has your name been reported? In two minutes you'll get the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u201	It's not personal, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u202	But for whom?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u203	I should like to ask for the amendments to be supplemented.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u204	Mr President, have we agreed on a procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u205	Here you go, Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u206	Minister, if you are kind, you have accepted and I respect you to go from 1 July in transition for the military in the Security Corps. There is a very small number of free professionals and I am referring in particular to lawyers - you know that - who resign and retire on 30 June, due to the end of the court year. If you think, please include this charge, to coincide the court year with resignations. I know that the number of colleagues is too small.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u207	All right, Mr. Comrade, let's see, and I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u208	All right, Mr. Carras. Have a seat. Mr Pafile, you will take the floor as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u209	Mr President, when we agree on the procedure, we must respect it. Firstly, the Minister has asked for the floor for five minutes. He spoke twelve, probably twenty.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u210	All right, Mr. Paphie...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u211	We are not small, but because there is television and as long as there is television changes the climate and it makes sense - they must give some representations - this process must be followed. The speakers will speak, the parliamentary representatives will take the floor and whoever wants to speak has the right and the time to talk about both the amendments and everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u212	Mr. Megamystakas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u213	Good morning! Once again, when going to Stepma, I will talk about sloppiness and lack of plan, as I do not want to talk about lying. Let us explain what you were saying in the first elections about the thirteenth pension, not to pay its contributions, not to mention all the rest. However, we have now seen the statements made by Mr Tsakalotou, who said about duty-free, and you finally reached 8,636 euros. What's that? I won't lie. I'll say no plan. You received the insurance funds that were inside the pathogen, they were over. We were giving big pensions to our own, giving big singles to our own, when for the private and the free trade we didn't do anything. You got it bad and you keep it worse, unfortunately. Last year, it was you - Mr. Georgiadis has tabled documents - 600 million for the PPC fund and 400 for OTE, to get 3 000 euros a pension and 150,000 euros a day.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u214	Where did you see these? It's a lie.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u215	We filed documents and you'll see them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u216	Please. Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u217	We do not believe that this bill you bring is sustainable here. We believe that you are bringing it in to have something in your hands tomorrow that you will go to the Eurogroup and say 'We brought something, we have reformed it'. But, basically, this is not reform. The world will not be able to respond to the new tax and I will explain why. Cut the small pensions and leave the 3,000 euro pensions. Leave the plaque at 3,000 euros. We propose that you set income criteria. What's Mr. Katrugalos answering us? He says that this is very strict and will open new doors. We need to take strict measures. We cannot continue to mock our ears and thus leave our own people, the omens, because those who take the EUR 2,500 and the EUR 3,000 pension are those of the narrow public and the formers of the ECO. When the other person fights for 500 euros - not even 500 euros - when the other person works eight hours and ten hours and is insured for four and sees the pensioner receives a pension of 3 000 euros, he cannot tolerate it and bear it, because it is absurd. We come and say that the pension is to maintain and dignify their old age and wages to produce. How can a man produce a family, create a home, do something in his life with 500 euros, when the retired just to be maintained, take 2,500 euros and 3,000 euros? What you have answered is that you will just become strict. That's what we want. Be strict. We have therefore proposed that you balance, that you balance the privileges of the private sector with the public sector. I have here a chart, which I will table, which shows us that from 2005 to 2015, income in the private sector is at least EUR 300 less. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Anastassios Megalamoustakas, presents for the minutes the abovementioned diagram, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In our proposal to do so - Mr Katrugalos is not here - he replied "We will implement a proportionate system and we will cut off proportionately". In other words, we will continue social inequality and injustice and the poor will make him even poorer. There is no way that the free worker and the private employee will sometime come to Greece at the same level as the civil servant. This thing can't fit our minds! I do not understand what seemed unreasonable in this proposal. At the moment, the small and medium-sized professional - because only small and medium-sized ones can be designated as having an income of up to EUR 30 000 - is taxed from 25% to 29%. He fights day after day in all this hostile environment for him and so leave the great pensioners who have not made much money out of their pocket and are sure to get them. Month in, month out, pay is in. The same is true of insurance contributions. You leave them like that. So there is a new professional - because I want to talk about this - in this environment, in order to open up a business today and tax 29 or give the advance without any provision for tax advances, in an environment where capital controls exist, the borders are closed, the merchants are not working, the VAT from what we hear is going to go up to 24%. How will our economy recover if we do not create an environment that is attractive to investors? Of course, I am not talking about the big investors, but about the small, the middle Greek. The middle class must support and make it strong. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As long as you consider the enemy of the one who produces, the one who creates, the one who works in Greece, we will consider you an enemy of our state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, too. Mrs. Papanatsiou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the discussions in the committee have been quite constructive and contradictory. However, this draft law is the only proposal. The Civic Opposition has committed itself to tabling its own proposal. We'll wait, ladies and gentlemen. The debate on the draft law is taking place in the middle of yet another tough negotiation. We know that conservative forces in Europe are having trouble with the present government. They were only used to 'yes' by previous governments, without negotiation, without any resistance. The resistance, however, lies where political plans conflict. Our plan, ladies and gentlemen of the PASOK and of the New Democracy, was just as unequivocal as the plans of the conservative political forces of Europe, who still remain faithful to the doctrine of austerity, the reduction of public spending and internal devaluation. The truth is, however, that we did not expect you to have an absolute match with these political forces. We would expect you to stand in the best interests of the country, which you invoke at every step of your life. EUROSTAT says that no new measures are needed. You call them? Do you agree or do you agree with the International Monetary Fund? In the beginning of the debate, therefore, it must be stressed that it is self-proof that the Greek insurance system could not continue for long. The draft law emphasises the restoration of the viability of the system while protecting the most vulnerable social groups and uniform rules for all. I would like to focus for a moment on the provisions concerning farmers and freelance professionals. In the case of self-employed and selfemployed persons, a transitional period of four years is provided for with brave adjustments. In particular, for young self-employed scientists under the age of five, lower insurance contributions are paid permanently. As far as farmers are concerned, there is an even greater transition in the gradual harmonisation of the rate of insurance contributions. There is also a permanent lower monthly basis for calculating the minimum insurance contribution. Here's a good thing to talk with numbers to figure out exactly what we're talking about. Thus, we have for farmers with a very low net taxable income of less than EUR 5,000, which starts with EUR 937 per year, EUR 468 in semester - farmers have been accustomed by the OGF - for 2017 to reach EUR 1,338 from 2022, 669 in semester. Also, in the rural family with two or more members employed on the farm, it is possible to give the contributions of the minimum insured income, which I mentioned above. Because there has been a lot of discussion from the channels, but also in this House on small cafés and other shops in the villages of less than two thousand inhabitants, who were insured in the OGA, we should stress here that it is the same as for farmers and because their taxable income is very small, the minimum insurance contribution, which starts in 2017 with 78 euros a month and reaches 2022 to 111 euros a month. We will not close these small shops in the province, ladies and gentlemen, as has been said by some of the opposition colleagues. We will also help them, because their tax reductions exist in the new law at a reduced rate from 26% to 22%, because they are the ones with the very low incomes. At the same time, we must also emphasise the significant reductions of up to EUR 21,500 for agricultural incomes. There we have a significant reduction in the tax, but we have a large reduction in the tax on incomes of less than EUR 10,000, the reduction of EUR 1,000. I would like to remind you that farmers can now make use of the provision, which was passed in the bill on agricultural cooperatives, and enables them to count on their expenses and wages, which migrant land workers are doing. The second pillar aid is not taken into account at all. Only the basic aid from greening and associated aid, which is more than EUR 12 000, is calculated from the first pillar subsidies. In addition, agricultural compensation is not counted as income as a whole. Finally, too much improvement is the introduction of duty-free for farmers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like one more minute, Mr President. This tax is also tax-free on the subsistence of farmers. As we all know, the farmer in any village in the region has a house, a car resulting in the current regime being taxed, and farmers with very low incomes because of the documents. This is no longer done with this law. Let's see now a little bit about free professionals. First and foremost, the reduction in net taxable profits up to EUR 30,000 with the tax rate falling from 26% to 22% in incomes up to EUR 20,000. Also, there are reduced insurance contributions at the level of net taxable revenues of EUR 12 000, corresponding to contributions worth EUR 3,250 and, respectively, up to EUR 20,000 will go to 400, much smaller than the sums paid to the AIF to date. These amounts are reduced in relation to the existing scheme, with the aim of helping professionals affected by the crisis, covering 90% of this category.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u220	Time's up. It's over one minute, which is 20% all year round.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u221	I'm closing, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the previous government had implemented arrangements for eleven reductions in pensions. Pension cuts in the past five years reached 48%. That's what you do you don't remember. You do not remember that you signed PASOK and New Democracy the automatic pension cuts through the zero deficit clause, mass redundancies, lock out, public sector wage cuts and new civil servants redundancies. However, this draft law does not seem to you progressive but problematic. We fought for a system that at the end of the day will perform its role as truly social and universal insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u222	Mr. Spartinos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Mr President. They are wrong, ladies and gentlemen, those who think that the New Democracy and the PASOK have lost their confidence only on the grounds of the policies that followed the years of the crisis. These policies have, of course, been decisive for their future. However, the policies that they implemented in the long term before the crisis of virtual prosperity and sound growth have not yet been forgotten by the citizens. When citizens were treated as customers of a political system that refused to realize its evolving decline. The period of crisis has merely helped or forced, dramatically, large parts of society to see the real causes of this sad ending. A characteristic example of the management of the client state on their part is the progress of the collapse of the country's insurance system. Funding, arrangements, pension schemes, even within the same insurance institution. See IKA with nine hundred different insurance packages. Of course, moves were the involvement of the funds in the game of stock market gambling with the encouragement of the then PASOK's governments and then the New Democracy, those unparalleled times of deception, but also of great fraud. Large quantities of shares were sold, during the collapse of the stock market, with huge losses. Then came the structured bonds, the best friends with the robbery commissions, and we ended up deposing criminal management against PASOK and New Democracy. 13 billion were removed from the funds with the PSI at a single moment, when the total removal of funds since 1950 has reached 100 billion. Those who have now achieved these achievements, which were further cut off by pensioners by gifts and allowances, which imposed special contributions and eleven repeated reductions in main and supplementary pensions, are today becoming the angered critics of the draft law, highlighting the zero deficit clause, the turn to private insurance, mass redundancies, lock out, wage cuts and the redundancies of civil servants. Opposition has tried as a smokescreen to create a political climate, which is obviously not the most suitable for discussing such a critical problem that has been stifling society for many decades. Because some people want to hide the essence of their politics and ideology and that has become obvious. Once again, I suppose others systematically refuse to put themselves on all the hot issues of Greek society, promising that they will reveal to us the secrets of the solutions that only hold when the great moment comes. Then they'll make us the big surprise. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed insurance system is based on simple and clear principles which have already been presented by the ministers and by many other speakers. I will not repeat them. I would just like to make one comment on the single fund issue and the exception that some insurance funds are asking for. When a group of climbers go up to a top, the climbers are all tied together. In case someone loses their balance, the power of the rest is the one that will bring him back so that he doesn't fall. And insurance is a difficult summit, but we must all win it together. The success of the application of any insurance scheme which does not want to send private-security workers can only depend on the development of the country, which has prospects. And that is not what we, SYRIZA, the government, are saying, but it comes from the Commission's figures that it will move from now on to faster growth. The success of implementation can only depend on increased employment, the control of 'black' labour, tax evasion and tax evasion. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be out in a minute, Mr. President. These same factors are, of course, dependent on improving the relationship between contributions to benefits. Today, we are primarily voting on the philosophy and structure of insurance. We do not always define the level of contributions and benefits. As in all areas, the Government generally legislates support in principle for weaker and small and medium-sized social strata. We must, of course, also make progress towards improving the position and the middle classes. It is good, however, for everyone to choose their alliances and real political opponents, namely those who started and stopped always in the protection of the interests of the top and only the income pyramid, the supporters of 1% of Greek society. Obviously, without them, we'll move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u224	Mr. Pachilis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr President. We want to salute the hundreds of thousands of private and public workers, workers, self-employed people, poor and medium-sized farmers, pensioners, young people and young people, women of the populace, who are protesting on the streets of Athens for a third day. Mr. Catrugale, you didn't surprise us this weekend. The opposite happened, I guess. And the rest with Mrs Christophilopoulou, you can find them. There's no problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u226	We can't find it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u227	The rest, the politics I mean. You don't have much of a difference. So they protest for a third day on the streets of Athens and the whole of Greece, honoring the Labour Day and demanding the withdrawal of the law - plundering, as the working class and the workers of our people have wisely named for social security. We honor the Labour Day, the dead workers in Chicago on May 1, 1886 - 100 years ago - the tobacco workers of May ’36 in Thessaloniki, the two communists who were executed in Cesarean symbolically by fascism to show who the real opponent was. We also want to honour the sanitaries of class struggle rather than the pilgrims, those who gave their lives for the rights of their class, the liberation from hired slavery, the abolition of the exploitation of human beings who gave their lives for socialism and communism. We continue the fight against capitalist barbarism unequivocally. We call on the working class, the workers and the people's layers to raise their heads up, to defy fatalism, to close their ears on the sirens of subjection and consensus, to assemble in a popular alliance based on their class interests towards the atheist and barbaric capital that has formed its own alliance. This alliance will rival all the anti-grass measures that have no stopping. It will also be an alliance, which will pave the way for the overthrow of the barbaric system, which will pave the way for socialism that is necessary, timely and only response to capitalist barbarism. So what is confirmed by all this debate on insurance these days and by the plenary yesterday, but also by the committees? I would say what the older ones said very nice and also valid today: 'The bioliquids have changed, but the hawas remains the same'. What do we mean by that? We older people, if we close our eyes, will be transferred to the earlier debates, which are precisely - but precisely! - they had the same arguments. So what do I mean? Every time the anti-French raid took place, especially after 1990, the rapporteurs, regardless of what suit they were wearing, used exactly the same arguments. For example, the Sifa law - it happened to be then - the Reppa law - is, of course, called that because the first is the law of the New Democracy and the second law of the PASOK - the Law of Loverdus and Kutrumani. This is how you will be recorded in history, as slaughterers of people's rights, not only individually but mainly politically. Today, then, exactly the same controversy is taking place, only that the violin has changed. Today, then, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is using exactly, but with a few variations, the same arguments. What are these? First, the viability of the insurance system. Really? What are you telling us in here? Is the insurance system not viable? Why? Who is not viable for? For the capitalists? Where did they go the 100 billion that everyone appreciates? Of course, it's a lot more than that, it's unthinkable. Where did they go? Who's got these? Are they lost? Who took them? The monopolies and the big capital. And you come here saying that it's not sustainable, that you can't give pensions. Take the ones they've been taking all these years. Why don't you do it? Do the opposite. You're giving them more. The second argument - you say it more elegantly, but that is what you said - is 'a great need for state funding'. Indeed, to workers, who have been paying for so many years, who, with hard struggles, managed to get some - minimal - state funding what you say today? "Superpower"! Are you denouncing them on top of them? And then you're talking about class policy, which I'm going to say below. Third argument: 'Reference for retired workers'. Is the problem there? Of course, it's real. There are 1.5 million unemployed. Who got to them? The socialism or the system you all serve in here? Who brought the one and a half million unemployed into the crisis? Because before the crisis and within capitalism there is always unemployment. So exactly the same argument. Fourth argument, 'enlargement of generations'. He talked about this, too, a new SYRIZA MP. Well, really, who are you talking to? Who sends these young people as cheap meat to the labour market? Is it not the European Union that you all support? Did not all overturn the requirements of capital, from the European Union, and slowly came to Greece for too many reasons? What are you talking about today? 'We'll change it by applying the same policy. And you're crying from upstairs. Well, not so hypocrisy! So that's what the previous ones said. And, indeed, for the solidarity of the generations you are provoking - so that I do not use any heavy expression - those of you who speak with those words. So what do you want to say? That we or our fathers ate the bread of the next generations? Isn't there a bit of tea at last? Who? Those who built modern Greece? The ones who died of cancer? The ones that did oxygen in the basement? The ones who were calling on the seventh floor at the risk of their lives? Fourteen aeronautics a year the average of accidents at work. So they ate the bread of their children and not the monopolies, the capitalists, the parasites of society, who live in chili and in wealth? So they're to blame for the bankruptcy of the insurance system? So that's what you're saying today, maybe a little more elegant. However, as far as you are concerned, that is exactly what you are saying. You do not think, talk has not been heard here by all the government and especially by the government, about who they are, who suck the wealth of the workers, who even ate part of their sweat. But there's a limit of shame here too. Excuse me, but I'll say it. What are you talking about? You say today that we are doing radical reform. I don't know. I'm gonna go find the dictionaries. Lianna, help. Words have lost their meaning. Breakdown, social justice, transgenic justice, equality, protection of the weak, these are your arguments that, in other words, you bring about such a law. So what do we say? That, not only do you continue with what the previous speakers have done, but what is tragic - and we have anticipated it - is that you integrate and use the arguments of all those who have previously smashed the rights of the working class and the working people. These arguments you use. And really, I ask you a question to everyone and especially to the government: Radical, so, reforming grandchildren to get a lesser pension than grandparents? This is radical reform in the 21st century, with such potential for society. And you dare say so already? What is radical reform? It says, 340 euros decent standard of living. Well, is there no shame in that? The EUR 340 must start from those who came to the conclusion and apply it to you ministers. Take it all away and take 340. Let's see, will you live? Don't you think? Don't complain, Mr. Barca. You're a young man. The government says that 340 euros are a decent level of living. And then left? Don't you think? The EUR 410 is a good pension for 15 years. In 2016! And that is what you call radical reform. What else do you think? 500 and 600 are good at both 1,000 and over. It's disgraceful! And I ask you first and then the rest of them. I say, New Democracy - PASOK and all the others: Truth, who are you, cut off by a miner, who worked thirty-five years in the tunnels, with a risk of dying every day? Who are you, who say they are rich those who produce the wealth of Greece, those who gave their blood to build this Greece, the ones who work in the 700th temperature that comes out of the metal? And you cut them all. So you come, too, now, on the Left is supposed, in the name of realism, and what are you doing? You legalize everything and baptize all this radicalism and social justice. What right? All of you! What right do people who gave blood, who produce all the wealth of Greece, say they are rich if they take over 1,000 euros? Where did you find it, really? You should know - and I know what I'm saying - that you're all going to pay for it very expensive. This day won't be long. But he'll be here. Second originality, the white one. It's a classic, he says, it's a classic. And what's he doing? It supports workers and the weak. Yes, sir. So I see in the newspapers that BSE, employers' organisations and shipowners are on the streets. They've got mobilizations. They're all out on the streets and they're yelling. Jesus, they say! They're all blocking, all mobilized, 'cause you're really kicking 'em out! Is that what you're doing? I see Lagard, quartet, etc. to prepare pan-European mobilisations, because they fear, Mr Katrugale, that the 340 euros will be generalised in Europe and that the whole of Europe will be destroyed. But are you working on us a little gamble? All of these support you, the crows, the ones you were saying, the criminals, the ones who want to make Greece anyway or otherwise. They support you, they say "go" in the bill and the people in the bars! Everyone, workers, etc. But, well, are all these idiots? They don't know their interest? Shouldn't you be applauded if they believed what you're saying? Not to mention all the other things. [[At this point, the Honourable Member's speech bell is ringing.]] So it says the Secretary-General: we share the few things we have. Really? Is that what you share? Aren't you telling me, Mr. Secretary, these billions, not to say trillions of profits all the time and what they have today, what a worker takes is eaten in one night, do you share them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u228	What we have.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u229	What do you got?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u230	What we have.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u231	Here in Greece we are not all the same. Here in Greece is the unemployed and the worker with the 300, 400, 500, 700, are also the ones with the billions, the fat and the wealth. Do you hurt them? They're the ones you've got out of here. And you come and you say, we share what we have.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u232	The cashier...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u233	But what Greece has is not what the workers have.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u234	Not Greece, the fund.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u235	Why are you doing this? Do you share between poverty, perhaps in the middle layers? Is that what you're doing? You take from all of them. But for what? You don't share. Do you know how you share? Do you share for the workers, say you and you and the people you're still paying for, while for the big and monopolies, what do you say? You have another rule. Ours, that is, theirs and yours, workers, that is, us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u236	Mr. Palphie, finish it up. You've just asked to respect time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u237	I'm taking my dentistry too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u238	So you get your dentistry too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u239	I've been talking one time now. The others have spoken ten times. That's what you're doing. There are huge issues. How much is it estimated he's out? Four hundred say with conservative calculations. Others say six hundred. How much is he here? How much else is it? What do you get from them? Nothing. You brought an article, 50, which favoured the workers, Mr Katrugale, and you withdrew it. That's traveling too. Second, what is there that you don't share? They are the country's productive potential. So what do we say? To take power over the people, the economy in their hands, to develop productive potential, to abolish those who steal the workers' sweat and have universal social security. We say, then, that you continue from where previous people have stopped and say openly that you are serving the interests of capital and its strategy. What was that strategy? Remember her, it matters. Reduction of non-wage costs. Why did they say the non-wage cost? Because the payroll cleaned it up. Yes, jungle labour relations, part-time work, wage cuts, wages, etc., have ended. And then you were bored in the European Union, all of you who are today and you are doing what you did not know. What didn't you know? Didn't you see what was going on, that he was all over the place? We're done with this. The non-waged one came and began to launder since 1990. The bases of the great reformer, according to SYRIZA, Zac Delore, were laid by the White Paper, which some then worshipped him already, such as Mrs Damanaki, President of SYRIZA. We've seen the evolution. Of course, everyone looks at their interests. Don't start saying more names and she doesn't. So, what's started going on? Subsequent laws, which had three objectives, began to come. And here we shall be counted, Minister, Lords of Government. What were the targets? First, a reduction to exemption from employers' contributions. Are you applying it, yes or no? You're applying it. The New Democracy did it, you keep it, and now you only increase it to the subsidiary. Secondly, a reduction to eliminate State aid. For what? To save resources from the state budget and to strengthen the capitalists, to make the most of the unfamiliar growth that will make one or the other. Do you do it, yes or no? Yeah, you're on. Third, private insurance. I don't want to use what was said, but I'll say it. Three are the pillars, you say, of insurance. Firstly, it is state insurance - social security, as you say, let's say that the State's contribution - secondly, it's occupational funds and thirdly, private insurance. The road is now opening with these for private insurance, which one - I do not want to say his name, so that he does not ask for the floor on staff, although he is not here - said it openly: 'Why should I trust the state and not the private?' You say that? Do you want me to get Mr. Stathakis' statement? Unless you have logic SYRIZA, that is, everyone talks to a particular audience that everything is going well and in the end we're all covered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u240	Karugalos said it a moment ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u241	The road opens for private insurance everywhere and objectively opens. Why, what else would he do when you take him to the other guy with 300 and 400 euros and he's got another private insurer on him? You also passed a law on insurance companies, what are you saying now? So that's what you're doing, isn't it? Didn't that take the capital so long? Isn't that what you guys do today? What is really reversed by the eleven reductions and by this strategy? How did the insurance system work out? Because there's a lot of talk here, until they told us that Metaxas also gave it to us. It's generous! Only, that Metaxas took the first act, which he did, was one of the 836 million he gave for the defense, is supposedly, the 500 took it from the IKA, not to say the rest of the Dimitratou and its end and everything else, because it's not time to discuss these things. It was the result of hard class-blooded struggles, social security. But mostly when did social security take shape throughout humanity?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u242	Mr. Palphie, there's a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u243	I shall conclude, Mr President. Let's talk about something different.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u244	No, I'm saying cowardice includes the ability to calculate time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u245	So I say that it was formed after the October Revolution. Then the capitalists started to back off. Because in 1920, for the youth that nobody's talking about...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u246	Historical backup to another...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u247	In the Soviet Union there was universal social security. Public free education, health, culture, sport. In 1920! Retirement at 60 for men and 55 for women. And under this pressure and the needs of the capital itself for the reproduction of the labour force, this...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u248	Mr. Palphie, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u249	I shall conclude, Mr President, but you will give me a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u250	What else? You got all the bonuses.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u251	Doesn't this House want me to go on?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u252	Until when?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u253	So what do we say? That he was conquered with hard struggles, but eventually he's part of the stolen goodwill. It's a mock of what they tell the workers that they're being given them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u254	Mr Pafile, if you don't discipline yourself, who will discipline the proceedings? Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u255	I'm telling you, I'm on an outline.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u256	Literatures?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u257	Why do we say that? We fought and fought for the tripartite. We don't talk about it, it was a conquest. However, what is the tripartite? He's monomer. It is the contributions of the workers, part of the labour force which the employer gives it. I mean, instead, 100, he steals them 99, just to say it. Second, what's a state budget? Tax. Who pays tax?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u258	Mr Pafile, intervention has now taken the character of a seminar.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u259	I'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u260	Hey, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u261	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u262	You'll be finished.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u263	Thirty seconds. Put them on. The landscape is also clean for the workers, for the working class and for the people. He can see who he is with. The myths of these who were supposed to manage capitalism with a more human face fell. It leads to barbarism. So the solution is one. Fight, rupture, overthrow and overthrows are done with social revolutions. And they'll be here and it'll be noon.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u264	Mr. Dimas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u265	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are discussing the most important bill, brought by the governments of SYRIZA - Independent Greeks for the last one and a half years, which affects the entire Greek society and the course of the Greek economy and the media have a strike. I would expect, at least, from the Prime Minister himself, from the Ministerial Council, from the President of the Parliament and from the Groups of the House, directly, precisely because they themselves claim to be such an important and beneficial bill, to condemn the strike of journalists and the media so that all Greek citizens could be informed about the substance of the bill. Of course, this has not been done and I think we all understand why this is happening. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr President, can you enforce the order in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u266	Please, ladies and gentlemen, be quiet. Mr. Palphie, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u267	Mr. Paphie, we've heard you for 20 minutes. I think we can make a little quiet. From there on, the most important bill, brought by this government on new insurance, is not even accompanied by a proportionate study. I say this in order to understand the curiosity with which the government is enacting today. Even if there were proportionate studies that the Ministry has not presented to us, when you bring an amendment at midnight, one day before the draft is passed, where you change the tax-free limit from EUR 9,100 to EUR 8,636 and have had a proportionate study, it would no longer be this proportionate study right to judge how insurance will be in the next few years. But from there on I see an addiction from the members of the government lying. Unfortunately, despite the fact that the Prime Minister himself in his group's own group yesterday, who spoke up, was bravely self-criticizing and said that the moment has come to tell the truth, admiting that until then he was only lying, I do not see the members of the Ministerial Council doing the same thing. I am referring, Mr Minister of Rural Development, in particular to you. I remind you of L.4173/2013, because it seems that you have not read it well and you do not want to understand it. We are talking in particular about single farmers' aids. So let's go to the explanatory statement. Specifically for rural business, given the different rate of taxation of an individual agricultural undertaking, the revenues included in the concept of such income are the only revenue from the production of agricultural, livestock, forestry, logging and fishery products. We shall now proceed to your amendment. Specifically for trainees of individual, rural, business activity in determining profits from business activities are included by direct payments under Pillar I of the Common Agricultural Policy. I don't think there's any comment at all. It is quite clear who is taxing the single support of farmers and who leads farmers out of production and who is not. But in the same amendment we also have an extra tax. As we read from the Report of the General Accounting Office of the State, some 200,000,000 euros are estimated. This is because you abolish the tax-free of EUR 20,000. I wanted to ask - but, unfortunately, I do not see anyone from the Treasury - the following: there are new taxes in this bill, which exceed EUR 2.2 billion. Haven't you finally realised that the tax capacity of Greek citizens has been exhausted? Aren't you aware of this? Only on your own day's day's dues to private individuals towards the public have been charged by EUR 17 billion. In order not to talk about the Exhibition of the Governor of the Bank of Greece, he says that the Greeks' available income in 2015 was reduced in contrast to what happened in 2014 where it increased. And all this at a time when we have economic downturn. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute or so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u268	Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u269	I'll close my speech and take you a few months back. I'll take you back to 2014. Let's go to the famous Hardouvelis email: EUR 990,000,000 and finish the fifth evaluation and we would have the opportunity to go out to the markets, to borrow normally, as is the case in every normal democracy. Even if you throw the previous government, as you did, if you had the ability to understand, because I want to believe very simply that you did not understand and that the government did not intentionally move, that you had to close the fifth assessment in the first few months of 2015, we would not have reached this point. You have charged the Greek economy with over EUR 12 billion, you have dissolved the country's international credibility, the private economy, and of course we will not vote on this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u270	Thank you. Mrs. Canelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr President. The official Labour Day celebration swallowed on the second Sunday of May. The mothers are celebrating today. It is one of the few world days that one must remember and which is worth it remembering, because mothers and women, together with young people and children, are the victims of the dominant policy. I heard a colleague from SYRIZA talking about a third memorandum. So far we've lost every sense of reason. The Papariga was right yesterday when she told you that you were exposed. You are the same as yourself, who described the events of 2008 as “tenthly”. And now with the negotiation of a built-in Left within the system, with the acceptance of all those who have intervened, you discuss whether to pull the hose left-handed or right-handed by the workers, which is already in the intensive with the two previous memoirs and the cap on the third. You are talking about this at the moment and you are discussing it in a way and in a vocabulary, which makes you a left-wing Lords. You're Lords. You're talking about the Lord of the rest, as Lords. And you are always addressing the parties in the previous memoranda with problems of success in European policy. That's why you're busy. With the color of Lagard and the International Monetary Fund. You have the same basilica, blood succession in the memorandum. You don't have a better memorandum. You have a third memorandum. You have no real vocabulary, because you are the same as "No" did it "Yes". You are not talking about a European Union which will become better and worse. You are talking about this European Union, with these working relationships, and you are talking about insurance reform, and about insurance reservations and reductions and increases, where everyone will be saved by you, but they do not understand it. They're on their way and they don't get it. Communists don't know how to read math. We heard about it here yesterday. They don't know and make the wrong calculation. It's all written. You're proud. You have thrown white towels, excuse me, in the system of the European Union, and you come here talking at a level, something about flies, something about chess, something about these things. You mixed Che up with the chee-chee, the fly. That's what you did. And you come here and you play saviors, left people who don't understand you, and you tell what the papers tell you? Once they tell you communists, you're flattered when they tell you new - stalinistics, you're supposedly looking at me. And you're doing proportionate studies on what? You are doing the same with this bill - and it is tragic: you have accepted the minimum class of workers, as the previous speakers have shaped it. And you don't have the courage to say that the first position of a party, which wants to look left, would be to ask for a restoration of losses and start the debate first on the restoration of losses, the return of reserves, turn the money back and start talking. You come here, the Minister speaks of the thirteenth pension, and about the limits, saying, 'That's what we called Genaris'? And September came the October elections. You're telling another lie. You say you're a left-wing government, confessing what? Aren't you colluding? Are you a government? Aren't you colluding? With this existent, disgusting, any system, do you have a majority without Kammenos and without the ANELs? You are presenting as a revolutionary, heroic process that you negotiate with the quartet, which was troika, for the third memorial, which is not the second and is not the first, for a height of amount, which was not what it was, which was the other, with the final result of doing the worst thing a party could do - which would not dare - on the right. Neither on the right, on the right. Send the movement back. You're telling the movement that there's no reason to get out on the road. You, with representative democracy, make the revolution on his behalf. Five crumbs are eight. To sit in their homes, to negotiate like GSEE did for half the coup. You are successors of a disgraceful situation. You're taking her a step further. You will either send or try to send or do so, otherwise you will not get credit from the European Union, from the International Monetary Fund, from the Bank. There won't be any investors coming here. You said yesterday that it is heroic to balance the certainty that the Greek people must have with the certainty that investors have. You took the people and investors and took out an equation and said they must all be sure that there is a job. I mean, the investor who comes here will come from left-handedness. There's left-wing, good investment coming here. The Squirrels will open well. He's got rust, which doesn't work on marbles and has good left, changing color.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u272	Mrs. Kanelle, your time is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u273	That is what you have done and allowed the courage of others to be in here today and to speak of the courage of the rest. Remembering the Labour Day, but remembering mother's feast, let me tell you that the mother of the Bridge right now may be entitled to a carnation above, because her child will embrace it in the grave, and we have the courage to speak here today about certain things that concern fascists, but we do not see them. Such a left, not seeing the fascists, is entitled not to be called the left.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u274	Mr. Saridis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the quick conclusion I made by listening to SYRIZA Members is that they must not have unemployed in their families. The safe conclusion, which I have come out, is that you are not left and, obviously, you are neither radicals. The dangerous conclusion, however, is that which the Greek people have reached these days, that the next Easter will be worse than this year. You know, to date, since the crisis started, we have been saying 'every last year and better'. But we were saying it with a sense of excitement, without actually wanting to believe it. But something changed the Great Week. You could feel it all around you these days that a heavy concern was over people. The change began last summer, which, with the vote of two hundred and twenty-five Members, signed everything and turned 'No' into 'Yes'. From that night until today, the change is evident. The Greek people now, when they say "every last year and better", believe it and keep it in mind as they monitor today's debate and seek no responsibility, but someone take responsibility. The Greek people, ladies and gentlemen, are looking for someone to take responsibility for what has been done, the responsibility of what has to be done, the responsibility of not making our country a protectorate, the responsibility of not becoming a puppet state, like so many other states around us. The Greek people know their responsibility. The people's responsibility begins and ends in the selection of those who govern it. Everything else is the responsibility of those who rule him. The citizen, who is watching us right now, knows his responsibilities. Its responsibility is to exercise its right to vote, and it will do so either by choosing when or when. The Greek people, however, since today also know something else: pink will not save Greece. From today, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict, you can forget, I believe, whatever your ambition to be the leader of the country's political forces. But it's true that you've done a great deal of damage. You have created bad precedents that we will find before us. You inaugurated, for example, the great - hearted tradition of the ministers. From the first day you've taken over, you've made bread cheese that you're blackmailing and that you're finally subjugating and you're putting on a signature. You do this with a heavy heart. How many ministers do you practice the policy you have from the Constitution, Prime Minister? On the other hand, I very much fear that if the people trust Mr Mitsotakis, then soon he will hear from the lips of the New Democracy a minister will say: "I sign with a heavy heart. It's the SYRIZA and his neoliberal policy. It is because of the laws that Tsipras and Kammenos brought." To date we have been struggling at the Central Association to understand how and who will affect your threatening irresponsible legislative initiatives, how and who will affect the laws, which threaten you to bring and eventually bring today, in the context of the heroic negotiation of course. Today we are giving the same answer to all citizens. Nobody knows exactly what's coming to them. The government has done so in the dark in the information of citizens. But they'll find out along the way. They'll find out when they go to collect their pension. They'll find out when they go to pay the electricity, when they go to pay the rent, when they go to get gasoline or oil, when they have to bury someone, when they have to pay the English school, when they have to go to the hospital or buy drugs. And they will, of course, know it when they are going to ask a public official for a provision that was cut or a obligation they did not know they always have in accordance with the Memorandum of Tsipras - Kammenos. Then people will know for sure what we're voting in here. Every time they open their wallet they will be for the citizens and an experience of acquaintance with the economic vision of the first time left. Ladies and gentlemen, you are plunging the country into absolute uncertainty today. After the moral advantage you lose and any confidence that the Greek people have chosen and shown you by offering you the famous second chance. You didn't understand the value of September. You did not understand the value of the second chance the Greeks gave you. You have continued without the gratifying weights. From today one is the account written in the popular conscience: the first time left betrayed its ideals. Evidence is today's bill you're bringing us today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u276	The parliamentary spokesman for the Golden Dawn, Mr Poppas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u277	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on insurance and pensions comes in an unorthodox manner over the weekend for the government to catch up with the Eurogroup. And it seems to us that the President of Parliament himself, at the Conference of Presidents, stated clearly that this infamousness, for us, is not a prerequisite for the troika. Of course, you refer to the third of the occupation forces of the country, namely the European Union, the International Monetary Fund and the European Central Bank - to add NATO - to the term institutions. And I was particularly impressed by the fact that in their positions the spokesmen of the Civilian opposition also used the same term 'institutions' yesterday and today. It's a confirmation that obviously you can draw a conclusion on everything. So without prerequisites, the draft law, which we are debating today, is simply for the subordinate government to represent the good child in relation to the stricter teacher Merkel and the institutions and to move to the next class. In short, you are destroying the country if you can earn some political time. Your stay in power and destruction and misery of the Greek people are most important to you from home. Obviously you Marxists of the SYRIZA government, having all common womb, so you understand your patriotic duty. Without, of course, excluding the far right-wing ANELs, who for the sake of the chair can disguise in any uniform, they can also sell their political soul - and not just - to anyone. What is provided for in the bill has been understood and said against the coral yesterday and today. In summary, the income tax is redefined by introducing a new tax-free amount of EUR 8,600 and a wealth measure of the income of EUR 700 per month. In other words, according to your logic, wage earners and tenants of 700 euros are considered rich. I would remind you here and the statement by the Chief of Officerial Response, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, in 2011, who said he doesn't know what it's like to spend a month with 700 euros and wished he never had to experience it. The conclusions of yours. This man says he wants to save and rule the place, not knowing anything about real life. The new pension calculation system will also bring reductions in new pensioners. Remove family benefits to newly retired people and set up a pension plaque. Nice equality! Marxist equality! Do you miss the proletariat, gentlemen of the government, to make the revolution that you envision? Because you're starting at zero. You create a violent impoverishment, which, along with the previous Right and Left Memorials, will bring about the vote of your bill. You create a Greek proletariat. I wish there were jobs and Greek industries. However, they made sure that they were right and left to destroy the Greek industry, to eliminate the national production, to exterminate the free trader, to destroy the craftsmen, to eliminate the partisans of working life, to eliminate the workers and the farmers. To farmers you are giving them a charismatic shot. They are now being called upon to pay EUR 74 million, in addition, in 2016 due to the retroactive increase in their contributions, in 2017 95 million, in 2018 112 million and 157 million in 2019. Increase the insurance contributions and cut the one. You are condemning to a definitive enclosure thousands of professionals with the 29% tax. And that was all? The Greek people know that worse days are coming to the occupied Greece. Apply salt tactics, the known lennist principle and tactics. The biggest crime in this bill is the gradual abolition of the ESS, the extermination of MEDIs, which you are literally leading not only to economic but to biological death. There are, of course, other than direct taxes and indirect taxes. That is why I will ask the government again to tell us where the tax is coming from, so-called VAT. Tell us where the blood of the Greek people ends. I am presenting for the Practical Paper of the national weekly 'EMPROS' with the relevant disclosure. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The VAT, ladies and gentlemen, for the Greek people to know, ends up in Brussels' taco-sculpture corals. You come to say, gentlemen of the government: “It is not our fault. We received the hot potato." You come to say, as has been said in this Chamber, the wisdom “these are our positions this year, at the present time, but they are not what we believe”. Really, who are you trying with such cheap arguments to make fun of, gentlemen and ladies of the government? The objection of the SYRIZA MPs, who mentioned the previous government's robbery bills from 2009 to today and which led pensioners, who were receiving a main pension and an ancillary gift from Christmas and Easter, from an annual income of 40,000 euros, to an income of 22,000 euros, has no value. It is not our fault to say. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is a question of not following a wrong anti-popular economic policy because you are unable or unable to manage the commons, but as an ideologist, as a patriot, to fight with all your powers to achieve even the desirableness of national independence, economic prosperity and social justice. Unfortunately, none of this applies to you. Even the offspring of the Mitsotakis family, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, sometimes cynical and true, said on the "STAR" channel three years ago, "The Golden Dawn in terms of its ideology differs from all of Parliament's parties." Of course the Golden Dawn, the Greek people's nationalist movement, is the only one that differs in its ideology from all of Parliament's parties. All the others are the same, as Mr Mitsotakis admits. One may appear as centre-right, the other as a centre-left, the other as a communist, etc., but beyond the misleading labels, all are sides of the same coin, the sinful post-government clipping system and all of you loyal servants of the same world master. In your confession, therefore, you are all the same and the Greek people now understand it. Ladies and gentlemen, I could well not mention any of the previous ones. However, I will make exactly those thoughts that will follow. "It is the second day of the debate on tax-taxation and speculation, we call it a draft law. We talked here yesterday about the unconstitutionality of this plan and we heard some flaws, some position by the fellow Members who were against unconstitutionalism. They are trying to convince us that everything is well burned." Below: “Do the Greek people know all that you are doing today? He knows them. Does he know your intentions? Under what commitments have you been elected? Can I remind you of them? Increase in low pensions. No more wage cuts. That's it. Reduction of all tax rates, what we are asking today. Gradually increasing duty at 10,000 euros. Samaras. Here it is. That's what you said, and that's how you were voted on. And what did you do? You did the opposite. You made fun of the people. You lied. Your election was based on fraud. You're common crooks. You're not morally standing. The problem, of course, because we are talking here about taxation, about economy, is not the economy. For us, it's not even tax evasion. They're not even the Lagard lists, fake, really, all the ones that've been thrown away at the table right now, they've thrown a lot of people at the table. Our problem is the late decision of the coup d'état to sell Greece, to hand over to the economic war, as you say, which Greece is suffering. So the problem is not economic. The problem is political." Below it says: "To close the matter with Mrs Bakoyannis, she also referred to what violence is, mostly referring to SYRIZA and throwing some peaks towards the end of her speech towards the Golden Dawn. Let me say this. Of course, the Golden Dawn, as a political party, stands against all forms of violence. Others here consider violence to be the "mame" of history. Others have supported their ideologies for goulag violence and for guillotine violence. Others have set up ideologies on millions of dead. This is Greece. Here we will talk about the violence caused by thousands of illegal invaders who have come to our homeland uninvited. We'll talk about the murders, about thefts. We'll talk about the Greeks, who feel strangers in their homeland, in their neighborhood. Speaking as a Greek, as a nationalist, as a real patriot and not a doolilog, I will say this. The only violence that produced history, the only violence we accept is the violence of the Revolution of 1821, the violence that was the only nationalist revolution "stamp" for all history internationally and was the revolution, where the fighters fought for national independence and social justice, for which the Golden Dawn is fighting today and calls on the Greek people to its side. Gentlemen, this must end lies with traitors and liars. What can I tell you in five seconds? Let me tell you in five seconds that in the Golden Dawn we are raising our voices in today's bill. We have a unique blue-white driver. We sing the eternal song, which says "I know you from the edge of the sword the terrible one". This is violence, violence of freedom. That's what you're afraid of, the Greek people. Fear the terrible explosion of the Greek people who will scan you as much as propaganda and psychological violence as you exercise against him. Ladies and gentlemen, it was my speech from the Stepma on January 11, 2013, where the Samaras Concert Bill was discussed, on 'Agreements on income taxation, regulations on the matter of the Ministry of Finance and other provisions'. That's all I could say, without changing a ton or one ton. For the truth, I also submit a copy of my speech from the record of speeches, trying to prove to you that the Memorandum Government of Samara of New Democracy is the same with the Memorandum Government of Tsipras and SYRIZA. Antonis Tsipras and Alexis Samaras match. Both Prime Ministers both deceived and fooled the Greek people. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] With regard to the so-called left-wing SYRIZA, we nationalists are well aware of them. We know that at the core of their ideas are ethnicly neutralized and allergic to all patriotic. They're atheist, memorable and Islamophile. The issue is about the so-called 'right', which I expect to rule once again by deceiving the Greek people, Right, who have nothing to do with the right of the 'Parris - Religion - Family', when the Chief is voting for memorials, to vote according to cohabitation, which affects the traditional values of the Greek people. Are you, gentlemen, committed to abolishing today's bill with an article? We are talking about a commitment not to gadgets, such as SYRIZA, which said "with an article we will abolish the memorandum". Do you commit? I conclude, Mr President, by respecting my promise to the chairman of the Committee on Ethics, Mr Kourakis, during the debate on the lifting of immunity of three Members of the Golden Dawn for racist hatred, and at the time when most of the parties' representatives agreed that there was no offence against the Members of the Golden Dawn, they nevertheless voted in favour of the lifting of immunity. I shall therefore close with the phrases which I said at the time in the Ethics Committee during the debate and I promised Mr Kourakis that I would repeat in plenary: 'Greece belongs to the Greeks! Now out, all the illegal immigrants! Above all Greece, before all Greeks!”
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u278	Minister Skourletis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u279	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Poppa, other nationalism and other patriotism. And much more your nazi motif has no right to refer to Greece and home, when you are praisers of the dictatorship, which is responsible for the betrayal of Cyprus.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u280	You're voting for the horn's memoirs! You're voting for Yaladzi left me!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u281	You have no right to appear with a cloak of social sensitivity when you defend the most detestable has ever been in human history...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u282	Sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u283	I'm not sitting down!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u284	Sit down, you're heard!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u285	...the hangars, the kickbacks! You, too, don't engage in murders!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u286	It's the Minister's show! Scurlet, you're doing a show right now. To be deleted from the Minutes, Mr President. Delete these from the Minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u287	You're involved in murders! So the Greek people know you well!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u288	You're voting for memos!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u289	You're screaming, but these black screams won't drown the voice of the Republic, Mr. Pappa!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u290	You're voting for memos!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u291	Sit down, Mr. Pappa!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u292	Paul Bridge!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u293	Sit down! [[Noise in the Chamber from the wing of SYRIZA]] Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u294	Ladies and gentlemen, that's enough! Sit down. Go sell protection to a nanny who's going to tell us that way! Come on!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u295	I didn't threaten you, I didn't say anything. You're a hybrid, you're a crook and a common slander!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u296	Ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u297	"Go ahead" tell your family and your family, not me! Do you hear that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u298	What will happen, Mr President? We've been listening to him for an hour, and we haven't talked at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u299	Well, out! Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u300	Ladies and gentlemen, it is indicative of how this area perceives the debate. We have heard so much today that they have sincerely raised the bar of confrontation with many lies. Colleagues are invoked by the Opposition of false tables, false examples of insurance, in relation to taxation. Nonetheless, I think that is one of the aims of this report. They are aiming to feed the channels of interlocutory, which have been nighttime, months now, many months, over a year, all they do is build a virtual reality. But the credibility of these media is in Nadir, as is yours. Despite the lies, however, you cannot hide, gentlemen of the New Democracy, your real profile, your true stigma. I heard before Mr Brutsi giving lessons what a government should do when he succeeds, that he should build on the previous ones. Really, what did you build? What did you and PASOK build? Have you broken up the social state?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u301	The ELIOS.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u302	You, especially, were identified with the hardest class measure that Greek society has seen since 1974. What was that? The reduction of the minimum wage by law. And you have the courage here to appear as a force with social sensitivities!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u303	Why didn't you bring it? You've been Minister for a year.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u304	Ladies and gentlemen, I know very well that there is a word that you just hear of is getting your hair up. It is the word'redistribution'. For we, despite the objective difficulties that exist, which have to do with the degree of freedom of the current government, are trying within this tax and insurance bill to introduce and do as far as possible the concept of redistribution.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u305	Your colleague will judge...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u306	Really, your perception of this matter? What's your concept of democracy? Do you think of democracy, an extremist view of market democracy, have only the economic strong ones a vote? That's who you are. You're neoliberal from top to fingernails. And it seemed very well when your Chief, Mr. Mitsotakis, called students customers. Clients, schools, merchandise, knowledge. They are, therefore, because you still do not recognize the selfishness of knowledge and its liberating power! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We have never claimed the paternity of this programme.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u307	It's your DNA test!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u308	But not only do you claim it, you identify it. You are also aware of the International Monetary Fund. And at this difficult moment you do everything you can to put obstacles, to undermine the country's effort. You didn't get a seat, Mr. Chakalotos called. So what do you say about the 'cut-off' measures proposed by the International Monetary Fund? Can we vote for them? So what are you gonna say? What do you think? What do you advise Mr. Tsakaloto that tomorrow will go to negotiate?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u309	We're talking about leaving, that's what we're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u310	Well done, that's a great suggestion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u311	Quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u312	You'll get her the answer in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u313	Of course, the concept of negotiation for you is foreign and you cannot understand the real struggle that this government has done all these months. And you know what negotiation means? Negotiation, Mr. Economou, is to take the adopted law to privatise IPTO and cancel it, take the "little PPC" law and cancel it. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And these are printed in the last deal. This is the negotiation, which is foreign to you. Ladies and gentlemen, there are simple figures: 62 billion and 5.4 million. Make it remove to see the difference. This is your offer to the site in recent years from the years of governance. We know very well that the difficulties are many. And honestly, at some point, I felt that I would hear proposals. I heard Mr Maniotis yesterday saying: 'We will put forward five proposals. No one suggests that Mr. Tsipras has no gum.' It was the first number one sentence that he tabled to the House yesterday. For what? Because he's going on the 17th of the month to the launch of the TAP. Mr. Maniotis, how do you do? It's like they took you to the game.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u314	For voting against it and forging us that we were selling Greece. And now you're going to make the opening!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u315	You're lying, Mr. Maniot. SYRIZA had not voted against. That lie you said yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u316	Aren't you ashamed to bring it back now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u317	Please, Mr. Maniots!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u318	So I remind you that SYRIZA had said "PARON"...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u319	Minister, please don't give the character of dialogue with Mr. Maniotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u320	You voted against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u321	Sit down, Mr. Maniotis. You don't have the floor. Sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u322	If you're quiet, the Minister will be running out of time. I would remind you, therefore, that SYRIZA had not voted against this agreement. He had said "PARTON". And you know why? Because the deal you had made, it could be much better and you didn't. And yet these months our government has succeeded in this agreement and improved things. The 11 million corporate social responsibility became 32.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u323	And the 100 million, you've done 30! You're lying!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u324	We had to pay the company to pass through the forests and the public land. You didn't even do that!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u325	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u326	Mr. Maniotis, you don't have the floor. The President of your Party will be called immediately after the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u327	And above all, we have a multi-dimensional energy policy that you see with the chalk. I shall therefore conclude - despite the speeches you have made and the holidays you have made - by saying that we, with absolute openness, will be addressing the world. We'll present him with the real ruthless dilemmas, the difficulties. And this relationship of confidence resulting from the unselfishness and sincerity of this government is the one that gives us strength. That's how we'll move on and that's our big difference with you. Hello.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u328	The President of the Democratic Association, Mr. Genemas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u329	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u330	What's the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u331	Mr. Minister falsely referred to my name. I want the floor for a minute to prove to you what the personal matter is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u332	Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u333	Listen, Mr. President. The Minister came down from the Step, saying a very big lie. The TAP law we brought to us was blamed by Mr. Tsipras and then by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group for being a "law - Banana" that is a law that unravels Greece. And at the same time, the Minister uses a second lie. He says and proudly says that he took as compensation for 30 million - look out - for a project of 1.5 billion. That we negotiated, we brought, with ten thousand jobs, when we claimed 100 million compensatory payments. This is a disgrace and a blatant lie, what the Minister says.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u334	The President of the PASOK Democratic Association, Mr. Genemas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u335	Please speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u336	You have no say, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u337	Mr President, what Mr Maniotis said is not personal. We stop to discuss a personal matter all the time. The Rules of Procedure are constantly being violated. Yesterday, Mr. Kremastinos read what a personal matter means. Stop the fairy tale. Where was the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u338	Mr President, do I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u339	Yes, you can start.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u340	To calm down, I'll start differently. I want to send my warmest wishes to the mothers of all Greece and all the world. All of us in this House today, many years. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] And because you can't rewrite the story to cover the inadequacy of it, I can remind you that social state just didn't exist before the PASOK. I come to the point that we are discussing today. Prime Minister, you took advantage of difficulties, anger, anger. You promised hope and turned it into despair. Dangerous liars as Opposition, dangerous impotent as government, capable only of political deception. You have stood, Mr Tsipras, a colpo grosso to be able to conquer power by populism, by demagogy, while the country was trying to survive. And when you finally did that, you received a country that was trying to stand on its feet and screwed it up. Your hard antimony rhetoric became the most horrendous memorial practice. The failure of government's manipulations has been judged by reality, by dramatic developments. This is an objective fact. The evaluation should have been closed since October with fewer measures and in a different direction. Now, of course, we have been following all these months the known performance: Mr Tsipras is negotiating hard! We've seen this project before. And as long as the government is delaying, the account for the citizens is growing, the economy is sinking, uncertainty and insecurity are dominated, the liquidity in the economy and the funds has caught a bottom once again. How much does this so-called heroic negotiation actually cost? The cost of the new measures by SYRIZA - ANEL for the Greek people is about EUR 12.5 billion: EUR 3.5 billion last year, measures EUR 5.4 billion now and the cherry on the cake, measures - 'cava' EUR 3.6 billion. How much scandalous! Every article, every line, every word of this bill is against the people who trusted you, but also against the entire Greek people. We have tax extermination of those who insist on creating in this country. It is characteristic that tax burdens reach 1.25% of GDP, with an increase in direct taxation affecting both low income levels and middle-class. You promised tax-free at 12,000 euros. Then you came and set as your red line the 9,100 euros. In fact, the Minister responsible said that if duty is lower than this limit, he would resign and vote against. Not that we believed you, of course. But now, you come and you're trying to tell us that it was a great success that finally ended up at 8,600 euros. Your word contract, gentlemen of the government! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] And who are affected by this retreat of yours? The low wages, the low pensioners, the less privileged Greeks are affected. And with the night's tax-free amendment, you also increased the rate of taxation for small and medium-sized enterprises. Another blow to them. You have treated them like large businesses. You disprove every day the commitments you have made. Of course, there are also increases in indirect taxes: an increase in VAT, fuel taxes, alcohol, vehicles and cigarettes. Taxes, taxes, taxes. Taxes mainly on low and medium-income incomes and of course overthrow government propaganda about supposedly protecting them. And you are not just ignorant, you are also unacceptable. You don't understand anything. You did not see that in 2015 VAT revenues were the same as in 2014, despite the fact that you increased VAT both on services and on products and on the Aegean islands. Of course, you did not know that development and tax policy are not going together. But where your inability and your idealism are reflected, it is in supposedly insurance reform, a bill of abortion, which you have been preparing for all these months. It brings together all the experts in social security, all the social partners, employers, workers, scientists, self-employed, entrepreneurs, farmers, pensioners and the new generation. In other words, it focuses on the reaction of the whole society. Only Mr. Tsipras feels happy. He claimed the day before yesterday that it could reduce by about EUR 2 billion public spending on social security, but all and all, it does not reduce benefits and pensions. Listen, if these aren't the math of conquests, they're not just another lie, they're a conscious deception of the Greek people. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] And I quote here because Mr Tsipras said too much the other day in his parliamentary group. First, he tried to convince us that we live in another country. It was a speech of a panic Prime Minister against popular outcry. I understand Mr. Tsipras' panic. He urged him to attack PASOK and the Democratic Reconciliation. I'm sorry, but "the gar of sorrow gives birth to insanity" and "hardness, I add. He's hitting us, because he knows, of course, who his real opponent is today, his own bankrupt, his government and his policy. The masks have fallen and the citizens who have been misled return to their homes. Now, as for the Arabs and the Careers, hold them. We don't want them back, we give them to you. [[Applause from the PASOK wing]] And I come to Mr. Pitella's statements. We recommend to him that he read them. Not because we are interested in Mr Tsipras's opinion on them, but let him also realize that his provocation went bankrupt. The fundamental and irreplaceable factor of the family of European socialists was that PASOK was characterized by Mr Pitella PASOK, who are fighting together for Greece and Europe. What did you not understand, Mr. Tsipras? The question is what you are doing for your country and especially for the extreme demands of the International Monetary Fund. I'll tell you what. You have become the most willing European in the face of the demands of Europe's most conservative circles. You are unable to make productive, efficient use of the country, even the support of the European socialists, which we have guaranteed. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] They were on our side with Grexit and refugees when you closed the border and trapped the refugees here. Get on your knees as long as you want, but you will not kneel on Greece. And I close this parentheses to return to the bill and the lies that are unbelievablely spoken all these days. I get it in turn. We are told that such a painful intervention in insurance was necessary anyway. Lies. There was no such need, because the reform of the PASOK by Law 3863/2010 had been positively evaluated by our partners, and any divergences were managed by limit interventions, about 280m euros, which the troika asked for in December 2014. Of course, when you came to things in 2015 you refused to implement this reform. Why? Why did you start a crazy race backwards, which led to the recession, to Grexit and to the third and harder memorandum and, of course, to the cuts of EUR 2.2 billion from social security. This account is paid today by the Greek citizens, your own account, which has your signature. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Lie second: Pensions are guaranteed. The provisions of the draft law do not directly reduce the pensions of those who are currently receiving, as a major subsidiary, up to EUR 1,300 mixed, i.e. mainly pension under EUR 1,170 mixed. But for them, after 2018, you are looking forward to unpleasant surprises. Of course, you are also imposing taxes, direct and indirect, that is, in fact, their alleged protection goes for a walk. For the rest, the axe falls heavy. A worker is not rich in IKA who worked for forty years and paid contributions. This staffer, with a salary of EUR 1,000, would receive a pension of EUR 960, and now, with your regulation, he will get EUR 768, a reduction of over 20%. Secondly, a civil servant with thirty-five years of service would now receive a pension of EUR 1.220. With your own bill, it will receive 886 euros, a reduction of over 27%. But what about the younger generations? There things are even harder. Reductions will exceed 30%. [[At this point, the first Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, takes over the presidential office.]] Lie third: The insurance burdens are fairly distributed. The reality, ladies and gentlemen of the government, proves that the increase in contributions for professionals, scientists, farmers takes extermination. A free profession with EUR 15 000 annual gross income will be called upon to pay contributions of up to EUR 5,692, depending on whether it is insured for principal pension or subsidiary, from 3,450 it is currently paying. And even the discounts contained in the draft law are only temporary. Free professional with 30,000 annual gross income will be invited to pay up to 11,385 euros, and today it pays 3,800 euros. And I come to the farmers. We are talking about slaughter, there will be nothing left to stand in the Greek region. Farmer with taxable income 12,000 euros currently pay premiums annually EUR 900. With the draft law it will pay EUR 1.680 a year and with continuous increases by 2022 it will pay EUR 2 400 a year, namely, an increase in contributions, no pension, no confusion, 167%. That's your justice. You are exterminating the productive powers of the place, the farmers, the scientists, the professionals. And, at the same time, you tell them completely cynical 'Look, do you not want to close? You'll have to avoid tax. Just do not declare incomes." That is why you are leading to an even greater deadlock in the system and you are not finally giving a solution. Lie fourth: Weak ones are protected. Are the hundreds of twenty thousand beneficiaries of CSR of whom will you cut the allowance with this draft law and the hundreds of thousands of beneficiaries following the next few years? Instead of giving the thirteenth pension, as you promised, you are now cutting off the low-pension pensions. Are the disabled, who will lose their pensions totalling EUR 192 million this year and EUR 384 million a year? Do you know that a disability pension with a few years of insurance will be reduced by 22.5%? And at this point I would like to remind you that the ESDC has proposed a fair solution to grant a full national pension when the disability rate exceeds 50%.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u341	We've left your own arrangements.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u342	An amendment was tabled by the Democratic Integration, by other forces and by other parties. Yesterday, in committee, the Minister assured the House that he would accept the amendment. [[At this point the end of the time bell is ringing by Madam President of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] Mr President, I will need more time, as you can see. The bill is very important.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u343	Not very much, but I'll give you some time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u344	The Heads and Prime Minister almost always speak twice as much time as they have.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u345	All right, keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u346	It did not accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u347	He has today accepted parts of this amendment. And I wonder: Nor on this serious and sensitive subject can we agree to give a solution to our fellow people who really need it? [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Are the widows who will see the widow’s pension reduced from EUR 630 to EUR 450? It's really a disgrace! And, of course, I must add that you do not hesitate to exterminate professionals who still hold Thermopylae and stay in mountain areas with inhabitants of less than two thousand. It's a terrible thing to do! Everyone will close, nobody will stay in the Greek countryside. Lie fifth: You guarantee, you say, the future of the system. You're doing exactly the opposite. Dissolve any sense of recompense. You create incentives for tax evasion and evasion. You undermine every creative effort, but also the expectation of a worker who fulfils his obligations to receive a human and decent pension. You're disappointed in any new man being insured in public, because in the end he'll get a tip. In fact, you are legislating a counterincentive for public insurance. All this, of course, prejudges that more unfavourable interventions are coming in the next few years. That's the reality. These are the results of your bill, a bill which is in no way a radical reform, but a radical degradation of the insurance system, with the mainstreaming of the people who brought everything to everyone in the squares of the indignant, and now rightly they cannot leave their offices. You'd be abducting the bars at the Syntagma Square, and now you're here to close the National Garden. Really, what are you afraid of? Maximo's "pads" were even talking about instigating mobilizations. Do you know what all this proves? That you've just become your far-right partner's mouthpiece. That's who you are today. At least respect the struggles on the left and the struggles of the people to whom you have been feeding rocked rabbits. I'm on my way to the evaluation. Even if it is completed, which absolutely needs to be completed, it does not in itself provide a sustainable solution for the country. The theory that the closure of the evaluation will automatically trigger the development path of the place is another story. The truth is that these measures are not only unbearable, but also anti-development. Because they will not, in a few months' time, be at exactly the same point of insecurity and uncertainty. In the meantime, public hospitals are dismantling, public schools are downgraded and institutions are being undermined by daily interventions and practices of state-of-the-art perception. The country needs a rapid change of course, another policy, another plan. We will certainly stand on the side of the present non-preferentials who, unfortunately, are growing every day. And we will look particularly at young people who are suffering from unemployment and who are faced with immigration. This migration is an open wound to the Greek family, to the Greek economy and to the country itself. For us, there is no solution with society around the corner. And that's our big difference from the conservative party. We believe that no technical proposal can give hope to the Greek people if it is not first made and if it is not supported by Greek society. Irrespective of the harsh, however, and imperative criticism of the government, I would like to stress that we will be sick on the issue of further write-down of public debt. I would remind you that now the value of the Eurogroup decision in 2012, which of course had to have been exploited since the beginning of 2015, but then you had other plans. However, we hear and read that any discussion on debt write-down is linked to the creation of a committee mechanism, and even after the memorial period, Mr Shoeble's dream. Here you are, becoming his right hand. If that is the case, the objective of the discharge from the Memorandums, but also of the effective negotiation by 2018, becomes an empty letter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u348	A little quiet in the Chamber, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u349	And I wonder, where did you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, end up with this tough negotiation that you have been doing all this time? Or cava or memorandum forever? Are these the options you have secured for Greece? You mean from Scylla to Harriet? Everyone, ladies and gentlemen, should assume their responsibilities. The SYRIZA MPs have to deal with their conscience and with the will of the citizens who supported them and sent them to Parliament. We say 'no' to insurance which condemns young people, farmers, scientists, pensioners and ultimately the economy itself. We say 'no' to taxation that destroys workers, middle-class and entrepreneurship. We say 'no' to the fundamental measures which ultimately increase unemployment. We say 'no' to the bills - abortions, sad results of your so-called tough negotiation, and finally, we say 'no' to the poverty and equalisation that your policy brings, because no necessary cuts have been made and you are not looking for us as accomplices. You won't find them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u350	Thank you to the President of the Group of the Democratic Alliance of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) - DIMAR. Mrs Eleni Aylonitou has the floor, strictly for five minutes, so that more colleagues, more speakers can speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u351	Mr President, when are we going to start?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u352	I can't tell you exactly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u353	Are you going to tell us the show?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u354	Mrs Arabatzis, you will speak, but they must speak first of all with ministers who are obliged to leave. That's just them. We won't be late for you, you're in the field.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u355	When will the rapporteurs speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u356	Let's move on a little, then. Let us move a little on to the speakers, we also have the Members of Parliament. Fortunately, there are few Members of Parliament. I will, at least as much as it depends on me, make as many Members as possible and we will see for the rapporteurs and the rest. Excuse me, Mrs. Alonitou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u357	Ladies and gentlemen, after expressing my warmest years in all the manoeuvres of the world, I would like to tell you that these days, following the debate on the insurance bills in committees and in plenary, I am trying to raise objections from the Officerial Representation and from its until recently government partners and also from their counter-proposals for insurance. My attempt to raise objections has therefore been very successful. The people who brought us the zero deficit clause, which, if we were to apply it now, should already reduce supplementary pensions by 30%, the people who brought us Law 3863/2010, but those who then ruled with them, seem to disagree, point to point, in everything, even with the law that they voted at the time, since they disagree with those of their own law. However, they disagree with all its modifications in any direction. Are we trying to increase the lower pensions by increasing insurance contributions? 'No, to God!', they announce, 'after this will be the burden on employers'. We're trying to increase lower pensions by reducing what's higher? "No, alas!" they again announce, "after that unfairs those who have paid greater insurance contributions all their lives." However, at the same time, they do not cease to point out that the pensions today are too low. Something they should know, since they have been reducing them for five years in a row. So, in their opinion, the lower pensions now have to be increased, but they must not increase from somewhere, so they must increase from nowhere, because for all those who are following us today, while the collection of objections is very rich, the corresponding collection of counter-proposals is poor, it is almost void. Your main objection, gentlemen, is why the Greek people have not re-elected you. Because the Greek people did not re-elect you to implement Law 3863/2010, which would further reduce pensions. Why did the Greek people not re-elect you to proceed with mass redundancies and lock out, to proceed with wage cuts and new redundancies in the public sector. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill is of course a compromise between what we would like and what we could ensure at the moment. The consequences of our unnecessarily subjection to the International Monetary Fund are continuing. We can mitigate them, but we can't eliminate them in a moment. By the end of the four-year period we will have completely neutralized them. But you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and of PASOK, think that you have passed the "hot potato" so we will burn, as you have burned. You also think that by disagreeing with everything without suggesting anything, you don't leave us in green clams, so you can hope that sometime the government will fall like ripe fruit. Unfortunately, your political responsibility and action are limited to the scope of the 'Israeli' similarities. But in the meantime, the government is obliged to rule and collect yours broken. We must prevent one more reduction in pensions and do so by ensuring a decent living for pensioners. At the same time, we must move within a very narrow financial framework and also successfully do so. We also need to meet the terms of the agreement, which we concluded with the partners last summer and you voted for it, so that the debt negotiation can be completed and the country can gain access to the markets. However, at the time we are fighting, to achieve this goal, all you feel as your political obligation is to make the advocates of the International Monetary Fund, who, after getting it out of its obscurity and unreliability in 2010, have taken it today into your basic political ally.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u358	Please, finish, my colleague, because we have a great deal of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u359	I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill is a crucial step towards the liberalisation of the country from the blockages that have put us decades of corrupt mismanagement and then five years of desperate attempt to overcome the crisis in the backs of the people without harming the established and intertwined interests. So you are disturbed today by a bill that divides burdens in proportion to everyone's financial potential because you always preferred to pay most of the poorer. However, our aim is not only a fairer distribution of unfair burdens. Our aim is to quickly take the country to economic development and free it from the bonds that you have imposed on the country with your own policies. And if I judge your reactions, I see that we are very close to fulfilling this objective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u360	Thank you, Mrs. Alonitou. Mr Alexandros Meikopoulou, Deputy Magnesia of SYRIZA, has the floor. Mr. Micopulus, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u361	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll try to be brief. Before going to the main part of my speech, I listened very carefully to the position of the President of the Democratic Independence, and I must admit that somehow some of her points of view have 'did' me enough. No one here in this Chamber is undermining, nor is it making it aware of the past of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement, PASOK. We all know that. There was no Greek state all of a sudden yesterday. There's a historic route through time. We also know the achievements he has made in the area of the construction and operation of the social state. As there is the glorious past, however, there is the present. What does the present say? What I know - as my fellow Members do - is that while all the socialist parties in the European Union recognise not only the President and Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, but also recognise his efforts and consider that this governance is moving in the right direction in terms of dealing with the current logic, the Democratic Reconciliation, the PASOK, is holding a stand which is only brilliant and glorious. So there is a very long distance between glorious past and dark today, ladies and gentlemen. There is still a very great turbulence with regard to the very critical debate that is taking place today. Things are simple, colleagues. When about 25% of GDP has been lost - this is translated into about 50 billion - when there is a huge deficit in the insurance funds, when there are one and a half million unemployed and a corresponding huge tax evasion, everyone here understands what common sense demands. It is not possible to maintain the current level of benefits without, of course, demolishing the state budget. It's very simple. So, what were we called to do? We have been called in such a suffocating environment, the limited resources available, to distribute them fairer, without once again going to horizontal cuts, in which, of course, the country's civilian staff had easily resorted to the recent past. Obviously, the time-consuming responsibilities that exist do not mean that they relieve the current government of its duty to lead, in these difficult circumstances, to the building of a social security system that is trying to ensure a decent living for the whole population while also restoring the credibility of the social security system in the eyes of society and especially in the eyes of the new generation. This is the effort that is being made. We have therefore exploited a part of the July agreement, which was very clear: In order to proceed with blind memoranda choices, we have the possibility through the agreement, with equivalent measures, to neutralise aspects which would lead again to a blind horizontal reduction in benefits, which today, after six years of austerity, are a family income. That's the truth. Both primary and supplementary pensions are family income today. Inside, that is, two retired people can live a whole family of unemployed. That's the truth. The main concern, therefore, was that today's basic pensions should be fully protected. What was the dilemma? Very simple was the dilemma: Or we would have had a reform with as much social substance as possible or, on the other hand, we would have made blind commitments that were actually in the July agreement. What were the commitments resulting from the infamous email Hardouvelis? The New Democracy colleagues are aware of this. Application of the insurance legislation of the memorandum, abolition of the CSR without substitution by equivalent measures, application of the zero-deficit clause for subsidiary funds only by reducing pensions. These were the commitments. We have therefore tried, with a sensible reform, to neutralise these objectives. And in my opinion, we did this in part. I'm not saying there aren't any hard aspects. There are difficult sides. There are professional groups affected. But with the possibilities that exist today, we are trying to make the softest management possible in this environment. That's the truth. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I know that we voted for something very specific last time, the July agreement. I believe that the controversy in the way it is conducted does not only obscure the atmosphere, but also creates demagogic phenomena which do not help anywhere. I believe that common behaviour should be established on the basis of common sense, so that we can address the increased social problems that exist. Besides, in my opinion, today citizens are not asking for political demagogues, they are asking politicians who will tell the truth and try to seek solutions. Winding up the atmosphere and demagogy never helped. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u362	We thank Mr Alexandros Meikopoulou and the consistency in time. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Dimitrios Stamatis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u363	Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister asked us a moment ago, Mr Skourletis, the New Democracy, if we know what it is to negotiate. We've heard, Mr. Skourlet. We learned exactly the way the Prime Minister taught her. The Prime Minister said publicly that, for six months, I negotiated on the basis of illusion, that we would change the world and Europe, I made a negotiation with the wrong strategic plan, with the wrong general, and to implement these mistakes, I also spent the country's last economic power group. That's what Mr. Tsipras said. Is that the negotiation you want us to know? We're returning it to you. I just heard SYRIZA's previous MP. I don't know if it's good or bad, Mr. Comrade, but I want to congratulate you. That is why the government should be using today, not the superscient, the fake, the polluter. I congratulate you and the young man of your age, I begin to believe there is hope in the place. It was a proper placement, no fanaticism...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u364	This is hope!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u365	Look out, we won't be looking from there any minute. Go out and tell the world now where are you? Left or right? It was a serious and responsible reason. Of course, we object to what my colleague says, but it was a reason alive to express the reality. Because the major issue in this Chamber is to try to contact you, with the government and with the rest of the government. Because he encounters an obstacle in front of him, a coma, that he must resign from logic. This is also the case with today's bill. You ask us to agree, after we have resigned from logic. I will not try to overthrow - because I don't have the time - one - the arguments and say how wrong the bill is. However, I shall mention one issue which is a matter of logic. How is it possible, Ministers, to take measures of 3 billion either by cutting pensions or increasing contributions and should all Greeks be happy? Tell me that. Give me an explanation on this. Take restrictive measures to fill a 3 billion-dollar gap. Who's paying for this? Where do you get it from? From your pensions and your contributions. Is that all we're talking about? Doesn't it surprise you that the whole world has been on the streets for three days? Do you not be moved by the fact that you have even closed the way from Zappeion, do you not see any citizen approaching Maximos, who has been excluded for months from the Herod of Attica and King George? Since you are here and many ministers, I would suggest that you make this proposal to the Prime Minister: the Herod of Attica is not being used anyway. Don't you make it a pedestrian to quiet down and keep people from swearing on you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u366	Every night at 8 o'clock was closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u367	You're wrong. We'd shut it down for a few hours when there were protests coming out and you blamed us. And you've made her a pedestrian. People can hear it and understand that. What are you afraid of?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u368	He closed since the '70s.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u369	Mr President, I will ask you for more time because there is a holiday. How is it possible to come and claim that these are pluralist measures, while "were" them for months? If you feel proud, why didn't you bring them sooner to calm people down? In addition to these lies, you attempted all this argument to support her in slander, attacking the Samara government. Why are you hitting the Samara government? Why is he a nail in your eye, gentlemen? Because he's too high and no matter what you do, you'll always go underneath it. And every day that passes, this becomes a conscience to the Greek people. You do one more thing. You raise the argument - some have said it well - 'the advantage of the Left'. There's no such thing, gentlemen. ‘Left advantage’ does not exist. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] There is a 'advantage' of parties that have never exercised power. Once they take power, they start and leave all the advantages. The accident with you is that this advantage you lost too quickly. Look at the polls and see your neighbors what they say. It's not just me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u370	Complete your thoughts, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u371	I close with this because the main reason for my intervention is another. And I'm glad the Minister of Economy is here. You took measures of EUR 3.6 billion for 2015 and 2016. You've made a commitment to get another EUR 5.4 billion now. A piece is what we're talking about today. You'll get more. Have you informed your Members what measures you intend to take? We don't. I'll tell you what these measures are. You'll hear them, too. If you didn't read them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u372	But don't be late, please. Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u373	In the Minister's letter to our partners, he says, "... by reducing the rate of replacement for the pension". Where are you, Minister, telling us here about the replacement rates? Secondly, it says that 'except for temporary protection'...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u374	Mr. Stopatis, you're done. Please. You're in six and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u375	I had a vacation, Mr. President. In addition to the loans provided - all, that is, the total, you will regulate them - except for some temporary protection related to the first residence...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u376	Thank you, Mr. Stamatis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u377	Finally, Minister, I will propose to you. The program doesn't come out, and you know it. It also seems from all the negotiation that creditors are seriously leaking. It doesn't come out and you know it. Even those measures that we have voted on will not be taken. They're not coming out. The only certain amount in these measures is the ‘cut-off’ made in pensions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u378	Mr Stamatis, you are cutting time off from the next speakers. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u379	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u380	Not a minute. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u381	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u382	I'm the one who's here, please. You're in seven and a half minutes. You're 50% of the time up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u383	All eight and nine minutes have been spoken here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u384	No, leave everyone alone. Please complete your thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u385	I shall, in any case, close with a phrase. Minister, you understand the problem. You're an economist. It's structural. We cannot go with budget architecture on the expenditure side, as it is today, with 91% of inappropriate expenditure. Here we need a revolution of the Greek state, to overthrow that logic. As long as we keep this sacred monster moving to 91%, the place can't move.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u386	Thank you, Mr. Stamatis. The floor is given by the Independent MEP, Efstathios Panagulis, strictly for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u387	Mr President, I shall begin my speech somewhat unorthodoxly. 'Their arrows concerned'. With a text - fire against the SYRIZA and the government, the editorial group of the "species" of the "Sunday Dawn" SYRIZA announced that it was interrupting its cooperation with the newspaper, a collaboration that had been with it for more than fifteen years. The text, which is curated by this group, is the Bournazos Army, an intellectual and journalist, reads: "I feel very far from SYRIZA and the Government. I believe that the body of its policy is wrong." And he says something even heavier: 'I no longer feel political confidence in them'. And it continues: 'Because that would be the best reason in this Union'. Continuing to continue the text, the Bournazos Army expresses its bitterness over his companions with whom he has for years colluded and saw them annulled. In the contested text, he points out that he feels far from SYRIZA, because he no longer has any confidence in the friends of the ministers and partners. In closing his text very moved, he points out that words are human, because people write them. They're relationships, they're feelings, ideas, paths. That's why Mr. Bournazos and his team left. Mr President, the government chose a month that is full of struggles, in May, to bring this bill, a month that has been baptized in the world labour movement with struggles, sacrifices and especially here in our country. A hundred more years of struggles to have a proper share, wages or security, and it comes with a one-twelfth and wipes it all out. This also shows a disrespect to all those who gave their lives and their blood to be free today and to have these rights. Government players are coming and we are told - and in particular Mr Katrugalos - that anyone who takes 1,200 euros is rich. It is now being abolished by a signature by the social state. You grant our national independence and public wealth to foreigners. Did you forget, ladies and gentlemen, what was SYRIZA's president saying about two years ago in Lamia's central square? I will remind you: "The aim of creditors is airports and ports. And we will not allow them to be taken away.' And the government signed wide, wide, for airports and ports. Mr President, a genocide is taking place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u388	Didn't you vote for it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u389	Please don't interrupt the speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u390	That's what it takes for another word, Mr. Comrade. I didn't want us to go on cheating on the people. SYRIZA had promised to arrest everyone on the Lagard list and the other lists. The Minister for Finance, Mr Alexiadis, told us a while ago that some 170 million has been assured. How much has been collected? And the other thing: you have not noticed, ladies and gentlemen, that those who have managed black money, those who hated, are coming out of prison. Who took Mr Liaconakos out the day before yesterday and charged him with EUR 15 a day because he wears the bracelet?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u391	Complete your place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u392	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you. To conclude, I would like to say that the policy that the government is pursuing today - and I am sorry to say this - is a policy that leads to a deadlock and none of us can predict what is going to happen here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u393	Thank you to the Independent MP, Mr. Stathis Panagoulis. The Deputy Minister for Finance, Mr. Juliarakis, has the floor. Minister, you have the floor for ten minutes. If you can, we'll be thankful.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u394	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm probably gonna need less time than the ten minutes you gave me. I have to say I'm disappointed that the presence of Officer Opposition is so petty. [[Noise in the Chamber]] On the occasion of the submission of the two very important draft laws, insurance reform and income tax reform, I would like to make a more general reference in the context of the budgetary policy, the government's macroeconomic policy not only for 2016, but also for the coming years. That is why I would like the Qualified Opposition to be here to listen. I would like to remind you that the priority of the SYRIZA Government remains the dismantling of the Greek economy by the commission of the international organisations - the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund - as soon as possible, the recovery of degrees of freedom in economic policy making and ultimately national sovereignty. This objective presupposes the possibility for the country to borrow freely and at low rates on international markets. Moreover, to achieve this objective is to restore the credibility of Greek debt, Greek debt securities and also, in general, fiscal policy and to strengthen confidence in the prospects of the Greek economy. Both conditions mean positive primary balances, they mean - if you like - small surplus budgets for the coming years. However, even if this obligation was not in place, even if this commitment from the government did not exist to disembowel the Greek economy from the comitology, the country could only produce positive primary surpluses, simply because it cannot be borrowed. The two draft laws, which have been tabled - both the insurance and the income tax reform bill - serve the objective of the small realistic primary surpluses for 2016, but also for the coming years. Secondly, the government's priority is not just the decapitation of the Greek economy by the comitology - a very important objective - nor just economic recovery after a five-year deep recession. The government's priority is to restore stability by social law. I would like here to focus particularly on the reform of income taxation and emphasise three points. The first point is that the vast majority of free professionals will pay much less tax than they paid to this day. The vast majority of the rural population will not pay tax contrary to what is currently happening. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The vast majority, and here I include the middle strata that have lifted a great deal of budgetary adjustment over the past five years, will pay little or less than it has paid up to now. It is therefore a tax reform that combines the best budget performance by 1.8 billion on an annual basis, social justice and efficiency by combating tax evasion. Thirdly, the government's macroeconomic policy is based on one, despite the objections of counter-population, particularly mild fiscal policy. The tax measures that we are now enacting - and I include insurance - have a three-year horizon. They are now legislated and will be applied gradually over three years. If you are counting on the annual burden of these budgetary measures for each household, this burden is significantly lower than the burden the Greek economy has experienced over the last five years. I would like to say a few words about the argument of Officerial Response that in 2014 it was a very successful year, to comment on this'success story', and to describe where the Greek economy would be in 2016, but also the country's public finances in 2016, in the context of the Program of Officer Response. Indeed, we cannot deny that in 2014 the Greek economy experienced positive growth rates. Growth rates were 0.75% per year. Firstly, the growth rate - and this is what Axios Antipolitics needs to know - needs to recover an economy with a productive gap in as large a recession as the Greek economy in 2014 is more than 2%. A growth rate of 0.75% is particularly anaemic, especially weak, and does not lead to an exit from the recession. It leads to a stature of the recession. I wouldn't be proud of 0.75% of 2014 if I were Officer Opposition. Secondly, in 2014, Civic Opposition achieved a primary surplus of 0.2%. We in 2015 achieved a surplus of 0.7%, despite the slowdown in the economy. I'm going to stand on this. In 2015, the primary surplus target based on the programme, the framework for the macro-economic policy of the Officerate, was 3%, i.e. 0.2% in 2014 as a real result and a target of 3% in 2015. Even assuming that the economy in 2015 would go as well as New Democracy predicted in 2014, i.e. if it had a growth rate of 2.8%, even in this case the primary surplus of 2015 spontaneously, with what economists say "tax buoyancy", would get 0.7%. There is, therefore, a balance of 2.3% of GDP, i.e. close to EUR 4 billion, for which the New Democracy, in order to catch the 3% target it had agreed, would proceed to new budgetary measures. Only in 2015 would it be EUR 4 billion, while the budgetary measures that we are now spending are EUR 5.4 billion over the next three years. Third point: New Democracy claims that if it was a government or when it itself becomes a government, as it expects, the first thing it will do will be to reduce taxation. No one disagrees that tax burdens are too high for both households and business. But the New Democracy does not tell us what it will do by reducing taxation. Will it produce deficits or will it further degrade the social state from what it has done over the last five years, in the five years 2010-2015? National accounts are particularly strict. When you reduce taxes or further reduce the social state, with the consequences it has or produces deficits, drive the economy back, lose credibility and remain in comitology. It is a question in which the New Democracy has not answered and must respond. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] In conclusion, I would like to say something about what the British say 'clean blue water'. In other words, I should like to refer to the deep difference between our own government, the Left Government and New Democracy, the Conservative party on the one hand and the New Democracy on the other. This difference will be attributed to three main points. The first point is that our economic recovery effort is being done in a way that is socially fair. The second point is that it is being done with realistic primary surplus targets and much weaker budgetary policy. The third big difference is that the benefits of the economic recovery of the years 2016, from the second half of 2016, 2017 and 2018 New Democracy will make tax exemptions by degrading the social state, while we will invest them mainly in the reconstruction and redeployment of the social state, so that the country will come out of the economic crisis upright and in a way of social law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u395	Thank you, Minister Juliarakis, and the consistency of time. Mr. George Stylus has the floor from New Democracy for five minutes with absolute consistency in time, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u396	Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot comment on the previous Minister in the step-by-step. He came and made recommendations and remarks to the MPs of Officerial Response. So I have to tell him: a lot of lies, Minister. You're divorced with the truth. Say no truth. I had the impression from the media and the press that you were a technocrat and I was waiting for the Deputy Minister, the state accounting officer, to come here today and speak with numbers. Instead, at the beginning of your speech, what did you tell us? You said 'less', 'approximately', 'less' and a condolence MEP applauded you when you said you would not tax the farmers. Let's go now and listen to me, Minister, please, because I have the impression that you are not reading the bills, which you are bringing and suggesting to your MPs to vote on. Are there any proportionate studies based on the proposal for a law on insurance? I think not, and I will prove to you where I base my position. A study by the National Analogue Authority, entitled ‘Financial development of the pension system’, was presented in the last two-three days. He was assigned to the National Accounting Authority on 22 April and the Committee on Social Affairs, Minister, met on 25, just after three days. So you told us in committee that the study was completed in three days. We accept that it was completed in three days and that you sent it to the ILO to be approved. Was it approved? Have any comments been made? Are corrections made? The study itself states that an evaluation has been carried out. On this basis you are voting on, ladies and gentlemen. This study provides for an increase in the retirement threshold in the seventh year of age by 2060. So I come then. He's incomplete. Why is he incomplete? As it says in its title it does not include the EFF, i.e. engineers, doctors, lawyers, a very large fund, it does not include the subsidiary funds, it does not include the single and it does not include the EFF - SMEs, the journalists' fund and, of course, it does not have a health study. In this study - it refers to instruments - the fraction referred to in Article 14(4) of this Law, namely Article 11 of Law 3863/2010, which is the percentage of expenditure on main and ancillary pensions on GDP with base year 2009, is not calculated. Let's go then. Is the study correct? I personally believe that no, because it has a lot of mistakes. Wrong first: Estimates are based on data with base year 2013. In other words, with GDP of 187,9 billion, while GDP of 2015 - we are in 2016, we have forgotten about it and what year we are - it is 180 billion. Wrong second: The demographic data used are the year 2013. Wrong third: The study predicts an increase of 3% of GDP per year. I'm waiting for an answer from the Minister in charge. Wrong fourth: The insurance income for the OAU, the self-employed and the OGA, as the study says, is calculated arbitrarily, without substantiating it to 80% for the OGA and 70% for the OGA. The study reports that he has no evidence. On page nine it mentions it. Your study is a sketchy work. It is methodically incorrect, without sufficient documentation, without acceptable arguments. Therefore, there is a lack of credibility and dignity of your Government. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe in another policy mix to get the country out of the situation in which it is found. We believe in growth and recovery. And I want to tell you about your bill that the Greek region, the Greek province, is that which can help us out of today's dead end. But when you, Minister, increase farmers' insurance contributions by 272%, how will the primary sector be able to support the recovery of the economy?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u397	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u398	In a minute, Mr President. Drive the Greek periphery into a turbulence. Because in villages of less than two thousand inhabitants, shops will pay contributions from the OAU rather than contributions from the OGA. So I remind you, Minister, that with n. 4172/2013, which our government voted on, was not taxed. And now you're the ones who have to tax the main aid with your own law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u399	Thank you, Mr. Style.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u400	Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting against this bill, because more problems will be caused by what it says is trying to solve. Soon the New Democracy will be called upon to give substantial solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u401	Thank you, too. The Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Vassilis Kokkalis, has the floor. Mr. Red, come on why time is pushing us. If you can limit a little the time I give you and you're entitled. If you can cover me under ten minutes, it'll be good. You have 12 minutes, of course, but if you can less.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u402	I will try, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first Christ Anestis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u403	Alert!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u404	The Greek people are concerned, but also worrying, they are following the debate in the House today on the vote on the insurance bill. Problematic, because he hears many versions, hears many opinions, numbers many, five billion, three billion. Where's the truth and where's the lie? There is concern about the future of this country that is directly involved in the evaluation. But let's start over. In 2015, not by chance, it was the year of the major changes. Described the year of the end of postpopulation. Postpopulation, which probably damaged Greek society and did not benefit. In the relocation, PASOK was the dominant party and in part the New Democracy. They have created a virtual reality, a virtual reality that today conflicts with living and real reality. All these years of post-population have created the principles of easy enrichment, anxiocracy, opacity, with political standards. How many people said they wanted to be in the place of Chohatzopoulos before he went to jail, of course? All these ideals in Greek society, ladies and gentlemen, have created them. The party called PASOK, unfortunately, swings our fingers when several of its executives are already indicted for corruption, for opacity, for the destruction of public money. And they're coming today and they're swinging our fingers. 'What are you going to vote'? With the end of the Transmigration, the SYRIZA - ANEL government took over. He's coming to handle a very serious issue, the insurance. It is a fact that the majority of Greek society knows that the insurance system in Greece has collapsed. Is that, of course, an alibi to the current government so that the insurance system will not be rationalized? Of course not. The insurance funds have been managed by the administrations and governments with the logic of gambling. Whether I was unwilling or intentionally, at the time of the Stock Exchange, the insurance funds were playing - and they played - the reserves on the stock market. The same mistaken policy has been pursued by New Democracy in the context of the will to strengthen its confrontation with PASOK at the time. The result? The insurance system has collapsed. Does this exempt - I repeat - the government from its debt for a fair insurance system? No, of course not. Now, the lies are over. Now citizens require truths. Magic solutions don't exist. What is this government doing? On the one hand, it applies the Agreement of 12 July 2015, on the other, it tries to have a spirit of social justice to the greatest extent. This agreement, to remind you, which was voted on by most opposition parties, provided for specific things, which the Greater and the Elasson Opposition now does not see. What did this agreement provide for and what does it provide for? Global integration of the insurance funds. Now the opposition does not vote for it and says that the insurance funds should not be consolidated. Remind me of 2013 by “KATHMERINI”. I'm tabling it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kokalis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] ‘All pensions from a single fund. The proposal provides for inclusion in the new IKA, OGA, EAFRD and OSH, as well as a basic pension for all.’ That was 2013. Today, not being able to make a convincing argument, they are voting against this bill. You will tell me: 'With the bill the issue of insurance is solved once and for all?' No, of course not. You will tell me: 'We don't have any specific categories of our fellow citizens and professional groups?'. I'm sure they're getting hurt. You will tell me: 'There are no minor injustices?' Sure. The Minister pledged two hours ago and in the House of Lawyers that he would restore them. Let us take a look at the groups that are affected and the parties that are hitting their backs. Lawyers. The most powerful blow to the law in recent years was to impose VAT. In order to impose VAT, the abstention lasted - correct me, if I am mistaken - not a week. As you know, the indirect tax is borne by the final consumer, and so access to justice is more expensive today for the citizen. The lawyer, unfortunately, became the bearer of this indirect tax. The people of the Memorandum Laws did not escape, but neither did the area of justice. In particular, with the n. 4055/2012, which has already been in place since 2 April 2012, has increased the citizens' access to justice: a misconduct at EUR 200, a misrepresentation of EUR 300, a misrepresentation of EUR 400. Obligation to perform at the Peace Court. You know that not the big lawyers go to the Peace Court, but the small lawyers do. Date of birth: (a) 1968. I'll mention it to see who's with the little lawyers and who's with the big guys. Does the law need corrections? I'm sure he does. Farmers. This must end the story because I see some - and deliberately, but also ignorantly - falsifying reality. Taxation of agricultural subsidies. I'm willing to figure it out. But ignorance kills. They read the Law MPs from New Democracy, whom I respect, and Article 21, which refers to profits from business and read the phrase "especially for those exercising individual agricultural business, agricultural aid and subsidies exceeding EUR 12,000", ignoring that this was passed on May 14, 2015. Voted on 14 May 2015! It is indicated below that this subparagraph was added by Article 2(1) of L.4328/2015. I say it for those who deliberately distort reality. No, they were tax-free, they say, subsidies. I accept that the subsidies with L.4179/2013 were tax-free. Then why - does he not want legal knowledge - the legislator came in 2015 and adds a verse and says that from twelve and above I am taxing them? For what? For the reason Mr Brutsis has the courage and talks about farmers. With his circular, on 29212/2081/29-08-2014, Mr Brutsis erroneously implemented the law and instructed the OGA to seize subsidies - and this man now has the courage to talk about farmers! - to their honour a storm of reactions by fourteen Members of the New Democracy who said they were inappropriate. Mr Brutsis therefore applies the theory of Mr Mitsotakis, who a month ago the Step said: 'Collapse, seize farmers' subsidies'. That is what the farmers should know. Farmers with a income of EUR 10,000, 15 000, small and medium-sized enterprises know that Kyriakos Mitsotakis wants agricultural subsidies to be seized. He said it clearly. The Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy as Minister of Labour issued a circular and opened up the coast of Halos - because then the confiscation of agricultural subsidies was followed. And either ignorance or deliberately we hear in this Chamber that agricultural subsidies were taxless. I repeat, if with L.4179/2013 they were tax-free, why did the legislator come in 2015 and clear the issue of agricultural subsidies? Some parties, unfortunately, must be ashamed of. They created the debts in the rural world. Was it PASOK work, or wasn't it? Fortunately - I dare to say - Kostas Karamanlis' law on highlands has come to save the situation. Who created all these debts? The rotten cooperative movement. The debts of the cooperatives who will pay them? The entire Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately a large proportion of the media are across from this government. The review is welcome. But we hear catastrophe. I'm going to point out some specific things. Article 114 of the draft law states that free professionals, like lawyers, will pay up to EUR 20,000 on the basis of 22% rather than 26% - if I am wrong to correct - where is it today? Yes or no? Did you hear that? Do you hear that? Yes or no? It's 22% for incomes from zero to 20,000 euros. Why doesn't it sound? Those who make more are indeed invited to pay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u405	Complete your speech, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u406	I shall conclude, Mr President. Indeed, there are injustices that we must restore. You've been tied up, Minister. Because lawyers are also a sector that offers Greek society, but they cannot go forward alone. Everything has to do with the country's recovery. What do I do if at the moment Mr. Katrugalos says I'm zeroing your contributions, if the country has no economic recovery, if the world, the lawyer's client doesn't have any money? That's why it's all about development. Growth will come with debt assessment and regulation. I'll say one last thing to close.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u407	That is very last, though, because we have exceeded time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u408	Very last, very last. We have a call call. We have a year in government. We're not in the lists, not in scandals, or in the complexion. This warning difference will grow. With this notorious difference, we will go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u409	Thank you to the Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr. Kokalis. Mr George Vlachos, Member of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u410	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Juliarakis just observed us and immediately left the Chamber to remind us of that "Teacher you were teaching".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u411	He's going to Brussels. He's flying at 17:00.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u412	Everybody's going somewhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u413	Well, not like that, Mr. Vlach. We're telling you - and we've already told you - that at the airport man is going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u414	I didn't think it'd bother you so much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u415	Well, not creating impressions in this regard too. After going to the Eurogroup. You know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u416	He goes to the Eurogroup and we know it. Carry on, Mr. Vlaio.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u417	However, despite its responsibilities for the Eurogroup, it also had the idea of hitting us - the Members of the New Democracy, I mean a card presented to Mr Juliarakis. But I would ask you, Mr President, to put me in the middle of the year.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u418	I've been putting time on you all along.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u419	The SYRIZA - ANEL co-government and those who support it either by their vote, following the well-known 'better defense is the attack' yesterday and today, of course, in a despair - I must say it - turn against all of Greece and abroad, thus proving that there is no programme or programme you have, nor have any prioritisation of objectives you have done and - most importantly - in absolute confusion you do not know exactly where you are going. We have seen a disturbance and an irritation, high tone. I don't know who all this is. No one ever said that our country's insurance system had no problems. That is why all these interventions have been made over the years. Two important stations along the course of our insurance system have the seal of the New Democracy: the "Law of Sifa", the "Law of Petralia" and the initiatives of Giannis Vroutzis, who all today recognize that thanks to them the system has been able to withstand until today. So when this conversation took place, where were you? Did you recognize the existence of the problem? Did you help in the direction of resolving it? Of course not. You were doing fine, making promises to everyone, whoever claims to be right and blaming New Democracy for not giving more. That was your irresponsible attitude. One will say that at the time you were at 3%, there was no thought of a government, no one gave particular attention to what a left party of 3% says. So, in this sense, you could be forgiven. "The State will fully guarantee pensions, we will not reduce pensions, we will not apply the zero deficit clause to subsidiarys, we will not reduce the pensions of new pensioners, we will not reduce the dividends of the share funds, we will not reduce the one-off dividends, we will support the low pensioners, we will strengthen the self-employed and scientists, we will increase the national pension, we will protect the family allowances, we will protect the vulnerable groups, we will retain the OGA and we will strengthen the pensions of farmers, we will strengthen the insurance system with extra resources." Who said that? What do they remind you of? Didn't you say it? You didn't know? Didn't you know that the moment you were talking about all this system collapsed? So, knowing you were giving these false promises. So the system was at stake then with a collapse and, of course, this collapse has deteriorated because you have also charged the insurance system in recent times, with making it less sustainable every day. These are the facts, this is the reality that you want to hide about it and blame everyone else and of course bet on the fact that the world very easily forgets. This time, however, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government creates a new nightmare that cannot be forgotten, because you are intervening and shaping citizens' lives. What we will be living from now on cannot and must not be forgotten. One will say: 'But shouldn't we be taking action in the situation that we are today?' I told you, the deterioration of the insurance policy has your own seal that marks your responsibility. Instead of calling for a substantial dialogue between all the institutions, instead of recording the real problems and weaknesses of the insurance company, instead of being called upon by the interested parties to present their views, you brought this bill and, indeed, in a climate of celebration, I confess, as I heard almost all of my colleagues in the government majority who have spoken, thus unintentionally taking responsibility for this legislative initiative. One might argue that you are making difficult decisions, but you are solving the important problem. Here is indeed the greatest fear, since no one believes that your initiatives will make or make the system sustainable for long. So all these sacrifices, cuts, unbroken taxation, all this overthrow in our lives in a short time will prove to be without result. You ask the opposition parties to tell you their plan. Apart from admitting a weakness, I have told you once again that the parties are not study offices. Besides, the plan is not brought by SYRIZA, it is not brought by Annell, by the government. In the face of this plan, therefore, the New Democracy sets its own political framework and logic for dealing with insurance, as it has done in the past, which I mentioned earlier, for the rescue and smooth operation of the insurance system. The system is out of fuel, and you inflate the tires! What's the fuel? His smooth and stable funding. Who's going to fund the system? Of course, the work. Who brings the paper? But only growth. Who brings growth? Of course, the investments. Who supports investment? Well, that's what I guess I don't have to comment on, since it's well known over time and around the world that Left and Development and Investment never go together.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u420	Good. Finish it, please. Close your proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u421	I shall conclude, Mr President. Raise your head and look around you. Look at the crippled heads of society as a whole. No one understands you, no one can convince. Because with many colleagues on the Left we have known each other from the past and in response to the admonition we heard earlier, I would like to remind you of that famous but always timeless and time-consuming one: Where are you young enough to say that I would become someone else? Eventually, you couldn't be others. Everyone sees this today, especially those who were deceived both in the January and September elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u422	Thank you very much, Mr Vlacho.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u423	I shall conclude, Mr President. I won't tell you to leave. But I will ask you: Where do you live, what exactly do you do? Think about it and see you again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u424	Thank you, Mr. Vlavo. We will give the floor to the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Manda, and then Mrs Arabaji has the floor. Mr. Mada, you have the floor. And you, Mr. Mada, as long as he's held up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u425	It can't be done. Ladies and gentlemen, we are today enacting a difficult but necessary and progressive legislation at the end of the reform, both in the insurance and in the tax systems. It is difficult, because it is carried out in a context that is suffocating as it is shaped by hegemony at European and international level of neoliberal capitalism in conditions of prevalence of extreme austerity policies. It is difficult, because it is being made in the context of a difficult compromise, a painful compromise, as reflected in the July agreement and a tough topicality, as illustrated by the evolution of the negotiation. Hard, because it has to face a landscape that has been watered by the destructive policies of austerity and by the rabies of interlocutory over the past few years, with deep wounds to the body and soul of the Greek society and the economy that is stricken by the unemployment of its children, the loss and shrinking of its wealth, the desperate search for hope and perspective. It is difficult, because it has to deal, not least in the parliamentary process, but in life and in practice, from now on, with fundamental issues of inequalities, with customer logic, conflicting interests and attitudes, but also with fair objections and opens up a sustainable prospect, but necessary, with responsibility and assessment of this situation, as it is in the short and medium term, as we undertake not to continue hiding the explosive mixture of the problems posed by the crisis in our socio-security system and to make the choice of direct treatment. At the same time, however, as we are determined to introduce equality conditions, uniform rules for everyone in the contributions and benefits of the system, together with changes in income taxation, to create an environment of justice, as our Constitution calls for, in a social direction for the overwhelming many. I would particularly like to stress this side. We can achieve an important task if we keep the term of justice and public interest at the top of our efforts. The reform we introduce in very narrow conditions in all kinds of resources, with full knowledge that we have smaller pie, is fine. It establishes a public, universal redistributive system with uniform rules for all members of the single social security institution. It includes the national pension directly financed by the State budget and, in addition, the remuneration, calculated on the basis of the average income of the whole working life and at the rates of replacement, which are extremely high, the highest in Europe in terms of public insurance, particularly for low incomes, in the context of redistribution. The reform fully protects the main pensions of pensioners through payment of the personal difference, if the recalculation of the new rules shows a difference. Under the new law, all new pensions calculated on the basis of income up to 1,000 euros, as an average working life, are completely protected, as better replacement rates are foreseen in relation to current data. More specifically, with a pension average of EUR 600 and 800 during working life and forty years for all the years 15, twenty, thirty-five, forty-five, forty-five, we will have better pensions as a sum of national and pay, than the ones given today by the 'Reppa Law'. The same is true of the average of EUR 1,000 and twenty-five years of insurance. From there on there there is a slight decrease. Who is this reality about? On the basis of recent reported incomes, 87% of employees, 90% of self-employed, 99.4% of farmers. Is that a disaster, a throat, a caratism? We don't celebrate, we don't rejoice. We know perfectly well that on the basis of today's data we have a smaller pie. But you have no right, you who have committed repeated and time-consuming crimes in the social security system and in the last five years you have made eleven cuts, and you have ejected the deficits, to cry out. We are protecting absolutely mixed incomes from pensions, both main and ancillary, up to EUR 1,300 mixed. This does not mean under any circumstances that all pensions will go to this amount, as you erroneously predict, as we have already said, the main pensions are fully protected, while for supplementary pensions it receives - I recall - less than 50% of current pensioners are actually reduced for a percentage of pensioners of 7.5%. This is the result of the negotiation, as lenders after a very hard struggle have accepted the increase in contributions, employers and workers, a total of 1%, for the first three years and 0.5% for the next three, which balances the EUR 300 million of direct cuts they have sought. That's the reality, and you need to know it. In addition, for all new main pensions if there is a reduction of more than 20%, in relation to their calculation with the current data, then there will be a replacement by 1/2 in 2016, 1/3 in 2017 and 1/4 in 2018. With regard to the famous issue of the contributions that have been made to a major argument, in addition to the special transitional arrangements for farmers and young scientists, which other colleagues have analysed and I do not want to analyse them here, they offer significant facilities. The actual medium-term contribution rate for free professionals, farmers, after 2022, and for free traders after 2021, i.e. the full development of the system for taxable income from 12,000 euros to 100,000, the actual average rate of contribution is from 27% to below, while this adds a 10% percentage, for those with additional contributions for subsidiary and one-off, and I explained before that it is obviously not everyone. I'm tabling the relevant table. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Mantas, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Moreover, on the basis of the statements on taxable income and the 2014 figures, 81% of self-employed, 70% of professional craftsmen and 99.4% of farmers will have no burden due to the linking of contributions with taxable income and because they have declared income under 12 000 euros. For there to be an overall picture, taking into account changes in income tax, we have significant reductions in low and middle incomes. For example, in taxable income of up to EUR 32,000 for the self-employed of today's OSH, it is important to alleviate the tax. For a taxable income of EUR 25,000, the relief is EUR 749,51, as well as income from EUR 28,000 to EUR 43,000. For a taxable income of EUR 35,000, relief is EUR 412,91, and there is indeed a 5% burden on large and very large incomes. All of this must be added to the contributions for self-employed workers from the EFF, 50% to 5% depending on the income scale. Ladies and gentlemen, over this long period of substantial and public dialogue there are indeed strong objections, misunderstandings, misunderstandings and fairness from a certain point of view, such as widow's pensions. However, what is happening in the debate in Parliament in the majority of opposition speakers involves a mixture of unfounded arguments and assumptions, at least selective reading but also ignorance of important articles in the bill, a multitude of distortions with examples that deliberately hide key elements, but also an obvious allergy from the parties of previous government - but not only - in the public, universal, redistributive system with common rules for everyone. Let me point out a few simple examples of obsessed and repeated phrases, which apparently stem from the same'montazier': 'Contributions from less than 2 000 inhabitants'. Answer for a multiplier: Article 40(3). It guarantees the same as the current possibilities. Another argument: "Speaking the facilities for young scientists." Answer: Article 39(2). The amount which is less than 20% of a monthly contribution to the first five years of insurance is paid out on the monthly income plus annual wage change. Is that insect facilities? It was also heard: 'Without resources the system'. A great deal of discovery, as if the previous resources were being abolished! They systematically refuse to understand how the main and ancillary new pensions are formed, making impossible acronyms. The examples that have been made in the area of counter-population are unfortunately no longer there. You speak with 2010 numbers, forgetting that 87% of the employees get up to 1000 euros a salary. The wage earner lost 37 billion from 2010 to 2013, and the self-employed lost only a 4 billion increase in taxation. Let's go to the most complex problems now. They claim that the cuts will be EUR 8 billion. Colleagues add unparalleled sizes, as if the system were completely closed, without anyone entering or coming out, and new cuts will be imposed on the same people. It is a different thing to return measures annually until 2019, which you add - to finally understand it! - and a different thing that cuts are accumulating to every retired person every year. It is as if you were claiming that you committed yourself in 2010, for example, to cutting pension expenditure by 2.5% of GDP and that would come after ten years to 25% of GDP. Those bills you're making. However, it seems that only simple and clear acts and solutions are understood, as for example horizontal pension cuts. That's all you understand. You claim the account will exceed EUR 12 billion. I will be a little sad here, but we may also fall below EUR 5.4 billion if revenue is better in the next period, so measures will not be needed. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. This could arise, for example, from reaching agreement with the OPCW, improving VAT collection, combating smuggling and tax evasion. These are crucial issues, open issues. This report by the Opposition is again completely unstable. It includes measures already taken in August 2015 and not measures that are needed in the future to close the evaluation within three years. Of course, references to measures of the order of EUR 12 billion are generally completely inaccurate, have nothing to do with the proposed options. The last thing that really makes me wonder: Do you adopt 3.5 billion measures in advance and add them? Do you take it and include it and add it and say for more than EUR 12 billion? I even heard a party president claiming this, Mrs Gennamas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u426	Complete your thoughts, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u427	And since you repeat the argument about the primary surpluses and due debts, I would like to remind you that at the moment there is no indication that the outstanding debts were increased in the first two months of 2016 and I am able to provide accurate information on this. As you also know, under the August 7 billion agreement by the ESM will be directed at the outstanding debts, and even after the rating, and by the end of 2016, 7 billion will be fully repaid.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u428	Please complete your thoughts because we have exceeded time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u429	Twenty minutes ago, another colleague spoke. I'm taking my dentistry too. I have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u430	But that's not how it works. Please. It can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u431	His second word, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u432	Give him his dentistry. Mr. Paphis did it, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u433	No, it's not like that. There are too many Members who want to speak...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u434	Let him go, we want to hear him...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u435	However, what you are doing is not right, Mr President, because you have already given the floor to others.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u436	Are we going to take the worst example of adapting the speeches there and finally speaking one third of the Members? If that's possible! We don't take dentistry either. Please complete your thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u437	That's right. Okay, that's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u438	Let's just take it easy. Finish it, Mr. Mada.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u439	Don't waste time. I'll finish as soon as I can. I have no more than a few words to say. I won't talk at all about 2014 and the success story. Mr Juliarakis spoke in detail, and I think that covers a lot of what I wanted to say. But, you know, ladies and gentlemen, we have come to overthrow a situation that was extremely difficult. For you it is impossible to overcome the trauma of the loss of government power, so I now call it, ensuring that you keep your ties firmly and systematically with other real and decisive powers in this place. You constantly repeat - and you are not convinced - a thousand-year-old project and destruction, a combination of categories of fraud, incompetence, betrayal and many other adjectives to the rule of SYRIZA. You know, unfortunately, we're at another time for you. Fathers and pedestrians of government no longer exist. Political history has changed page. It is absolutely impossible for you to understand the defenders of 'yes', the so-called European bow, but also the systemic left, an effort of a power, of the modern radical left from a government position, which is honestly, honestly, honesty, anguish, in very difficult circumstances, attempting to change things, by making concessions, yes, compromises, yes, mistakes, yes, but which attempt to emancipate this people and the place, contributing to critical cracks and to the European become aroused by the rise of the far right. Good power!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u440	Thank you, SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr. Manda. Mrs Fotini Arabatzis, Member of the New Democracy, will speak, and then Mr Georgiodakis and Minister Stathakis will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u441	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, this weekend will stay in the country's political history until the weekend of the collapse of absolute political deception, until the weekend that left-wing dreams of course did not get revenge, but became the most black nightmares. Today you have devoured the term 'left'. It will also remain in the country's political history until the weekend that a Minister of Economy like the thief in the dark brings an amendment at midnight to grab more money from the non-existent, even those who barely earn 600 euros. I heard the Prime Minister speak the day before yesterday about reforming insurance that is a one-way street and that you should make this reform, whether we had an agreement or not, because we could not give wages and pensions as a state. I saw all of you applauding, not of course with passion, but mutants, neoliberal, neo-liberal anymore, ensembled in the sweetness of power. Who says that, really? It says them without shame the man who, just a year ago, promised a third and fourteenth pensions and applauded them by you who, last January, filled the country with smiling pensioners and slogan "we vote for pensions and dignity". Today, with a great deal of enthusiasm, you turn the extra pensions you would pay into a tax raid of 12 billion. You cut 2 billion from pensions you were supposed to secure up to the classic red line. The supposedly insurance reform comes to cover the chaos of deficits that you are doing every day. It is an easy solution for you, of course, always to punish, extinction, and the pillaging of the country's productive fabric, as free professionals, scientists, farmers, i.e. people risking, fighting and contributing to the state funds, is forced by the insurance bill - looting - which is, in effect, a second tax, whether unemployment and the paddock or tax avoidance and the black economy. Dissolve the private sector, crush doctors, lawyers, engineers. I wonder which fool thinks that with insurance contributions and taxation more than 50% of the revenues the middle class can stand. You're punishing the job, you're reversing the pretext. Go ahead with work and entrepreneurship, I realize you have a gene abstraction and allergy. With low incomes how can you, the so-called socially sensitive Left, abolish the ESA, the most social institution of the pension system and bring poverty to 350,000 beneficiaries? How can you reduce the rates of disability pensions, widow’s pensions to 50%, remove the family marriage allowance from new pensions? What is, of course, a monument of demagogicism, courage and political deception is the treatment that you are looking after farmers at the end of the day. You who promised a tax-free 12 thousand euros, cheap agricultural oil and many other skies, are strangling them now with the noose of excessive taxation and with the evacuation of their insurance contributions, Mr Theonas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u442	You're not swearing!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u443	Please, Mr. Theonas. Carry on, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u444	Historical day, in fact, for farmers, as the Minister, Mr Apostle, said yesterday. Indeed, historical day, Mr Theonas, because 13% of our bad policy is today with your own boulder of 22% to 45%. Historical day, of course, because 7% of insurance contributions are gradually becoming 20% by 2022 and the rate of health insurance from 2.5% to 6.95%. Historical day really, because a farmer with an annual taxable income of 5000 euros of the third insurance category, the most popular, today pays 954 euros and with your own insurance reform will pay 1.541 euros from 2019. Please - Mr Apostleou is not here, of course - stop deceiving and mocking the rural world with the so-called duty-free.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u445	What are you asking for?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u446	This so-called tax-free, you are supposed to give them, you get it double and triple with insurance contributions and taxing agricultural subsidies. Because you are the government that taxed agricultural subsidies, from EUR 12 000 and above, with the Balabane amendment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I need one more minute to interrupt. You are now taxing - and with an amendment - your bill on first-pillar subsidies, 60% of subsidies. The question is - and I would like Mr Apostleo to answer us - the following: With the package of EUR 6 billion in the second pillar, the development package that has plans for improvement, compensatory, disadvantaged areas, what will happen, Minister? Are these also considered taxable material or is it a hidden paper? To let you know, the second pillar is not taxed anywhere in the European Union. So tell us whether you will tax all the EUR 6 billion in the second pillar. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, your Chief has overrun both Pinocchio and Baron Minhausen and Andersen's fairy tales in lies and political fairy tales!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u447	Your insolence is higher!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u448	However, since you described them as expressors of international capitalism, I will use the title of a favorite Greek film. So you are the "false" of the Greek political system, the fake SYRIZA and the fakeANELs. But your story doesn't sell anymore. The people took you up, and they're leaving. I still hear the statements by Kammenos in May that the country is coming out of the Memorandum. I still expect the Prime Minister’s prophecy to be fulfilled, that the resurrection of the economy will come with Christ’s resurrection. Christ resurrected, Easter passed, but the economy is still crucified, as is the number of Greeks. It is time to understand that only in a way will the country's economy be resurrected: the sooner you leave, then. This time, fortunately, does not seem to be too late.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u449	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u450	What is your tax on farmers?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u451	You did it! You should vote for it if you voted for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u452	No comments, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u453	You should have voted for it if we voted for it. Don't lie.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u454	What is your tax on farmers?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u455	See the explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u456	That's not how it's going to be discussed. Mr. Georgades has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u457	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, there are lies spoken by ignorance, lies spoken consciously, in treacherously and intentionally, and then there are liars who constantly use lies, by habit and by profession. I am sorry to have to say that the presence of this second time SYRIZA has not been mindful to some who said a lot since January 2015, they are still lying today, in this Chamber, and now the Greek people and I have the right to refer to liars by profession. And I'll tell you what I mean. In January 2015 you know very well - the Greek people know - that you have fed everything to everyone. But do you know what's particularly prejudicial to you? You are the only government that was elected by interrupting the course of another government, saying to the Greek people "we have the solution, everything can be done differently". You said this, while you were aware of the budgetary figures, the obligations of the country and the general situation. You can't invoke what they used to say we received burnt land. That you could not say, because the figures were known, the obligations were known. But you, taking advantage of the indignation and anger of the world, brought everything to the attention of everyone and were elected. You are now coming today and you are talking about the need to turn to realism, about the need to make the insurance system sustainable, about the need to limit the distortions of the past. But you are still not telling the truth, because, while you say that all this is necessary, you are currently bringing measures of EUR 3.8 billion with these two bills - insurance and tax. At the same time you say: ‘We are giving most taxpayers the responsibilities. 90% of the Greek people will not charge a single euro." All this is happening, and we know very well that this bill has a EUR 3.6 billion burden on the Greek people. So lies continue and, unfortunately, are now professional and habitual. So the crisis of the Greek people, when the time comes, will be very hard on you. And if you say what you say in plenary today, in the next piece of legislation that will not be long enough to come, I'm really curious to see what your arguments will be. Very little time. I would like to make two comments on two specific points. The first concerns the taxation of subsidies. Ladies and gentlemen, to end lies. There are two pieces of legislation. No one else. A legislation of our 2013 and a legislation of yours 2015. One is n. 4172/2013 and the other is n. Regulation (EU) No 512/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 establishing a European Supervisory Authority In the first, in which there is a explanatory statement, it only says what the income of farmers is being taxed. There is no talk of subsidies and subsidies. None.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u458	Check it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u459	I'm tabling it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u460	Of course I do. Revenue says.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u461	You're lying. There isn't. I call on anyone who's legal here to come and say something different than what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u462	I'll tell you later. I'm going to testify to the question you've asked.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u463	We have these two instruments. Nothing else in between. Whoever says anything else, bring the third piece of legislation. Is there a third piece of legislation? There isn't. You come and tax over 12,000 euros. I'm putting this in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] This for 2015, on SYRIZA - ANEL Government. Subsidies and aids are taxed for the first time by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. It's perfectly clear. Let's finish with these fairy tales at last! There has been something else today in Parliament and I want to say it. The presidents of the lawyers were driven out of the federation, and at the moment they are making any contacts at Parliament's offices. We all know very well that there was the practice and the habit of operators' representatives being able to be in the building and chat with the MPs. It's always been. We never forbid it. You banned it. You who allowed the anti-powered to enter Parliament's premises without anyone reacting now to the presidents of the country's legal associations, the presidents of legal persons governed by public law, the officials of justice, put them in office. That's what you did today. It is unacceptable that it has been done and it is shameful for Parliament what has been done today. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We never forbid it. When the next piece of legislation comes, because, unfortunately, it will come quickly, when the extra measures come, I really expect professional liars to see what else they have to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u464	Before I give the floor to the Minister, I would like to inform Mr Georgioda that, as the President of Parliament has informed the House, in the building meeting of another delegation, issues have been raised which address Parliament's general atmosphere and style. Parliament's chambers are open, the Members' offices, the parties' offices to become as many meetings as we want. However, what has been done in the building, which is a Parliamentary assembly for tranquility and other contacts, you understand that they cannot continue. Therefore, no policing, absolutely open to Parliament. Don't come back to the subject. You know you're wrong. There have been issues that we are not proud of at all. That's why and nothing more. That's all. The Minister for Economy, Development and Tourism, Mr Stathakis, has the floor. After the Minister, he is two Members on the list. Mr. Moraite and Mr. Mitafidis and then Mrs. Fotiou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u465	Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of whether or not a government, like today's, firstly, has a plan, secondly, to follow a coordinate path towards stabilising the economy and restoring the economy and, thirdly, to do so in a way of social law and efficiency, is questioned by a catastrophic opposition, which in all tons shows an economy in which the presence of this government alone in recent years has created a huge catastrophe. I would like to remind you, first of all, that the measures taken by the government, namely, the fact that the current government took place in 2015, caused economic damage - if I remember Mr Brutsi's latest articlery - 12 billion. Was that the damage we caused?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u466	It was 12.7 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u467	Yes, sir, 12.7 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u468	With the 3.6 billion, though!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u469	It was 12.7 billion SYRIZA - ANEL's cost for 2015. To add the capital control, to add the proverbial incapacity of this government. You haven't put it in the article. Incapacity has economic costs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u470	You read me, Minister! I'm glad!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u471	So with these and with them, capital controls, incompetence - which we calculate some billions - plus 12.7 billion, that is the cost of the government. All the economists in this Chamber, but also all the fellow citizens, will agree that if all this happened, they would be reflected somewhere in the course of the 2015 GDP. Simple as that. If all this happened and had a financial impact, GDP, firstly, would reflect the cost of 12 billion with a high contraction, secondly, the imposition of capital controls on the theory produces 5% to 6% recession - if this is the destruction of the economy - and also the inability of the government would add much more. Devastation continues with many other topics - you know them - that companies are closing down, dismantling, unemployment and so on. However, the results of 2015 show another picture. They show that the recession was zero - minus 0.2% - that the external balance went very well, that exports increased, and were not reduced, thirdly, that industrial production in the second half of the year had 4.6% increase, that unemployment had a slight decline - even small, but not an increase - and that the implementation of the budget, which is directly influenced by the economic situation, went extremely well. Therefore, if one is applicable, the others cannot be applied. The results of the economy show that there is something else that is inconsistent with the criticism of counterpopulation. You need to choose which of the three is the most important, because you failed your predictions. They are the capital controls, they are the many measures we have taken, the 'laden', the emergency measures, etc. Or the impotence of the government? You can withdraw one of three. I give you the right to take off the "inability of the government", because we are talking about this government last year, in a difficult year not only in Greece. Because we have been having the debate for a few days and for 2014 and for 2015 - and we are doing so - without taking into account whether the international situation is positive or negative. I can assure you that in 2015 the international situation was more negative, based on all developments in the world economy, the performance of the European economy and many other issues. So in a difficult international situation these were the results. However, I should like to return to the fundamental point: does the government have a plan, or does it actually apply to some extent, to some extent what the Opposition says? This project has a coordinate structure, has a logic, has a relevance, is it what we promised Greek citizens? Is that what we apply or not? I would remind you that the agreement we have brought and voted for by the large majority of the House has had three points: One point was that it relieved the Greek economy of debt liabilities of about 40 billion over the next five to six years. This has allowed us to have lower surpluses and to make a softer financial adjustment. That was the great importance of this agreement. The third is that he had a specific plan, a road map, through which the Greek economy would return to positive growth. The last part of this plan, which I would like to remind you, was very specific: the implementation of the two sections which we negotiated last September and October - the prerequisites, namely - the recapitalisation of the banks, the first assessment from there and beyond, a return to a positive growth rate with a series of measures that we would take. That's the plan. Is she new? Haven't we ever heard of it? Haven't we told all the tons? Have we not demonstrated - and before the elections - that on the basis of this agreement and a coordinate strategy, we are thus seeking to stabilise the economy and recovery within 2016? So far, you've been telling us that we can't do this. The Commission has anticipated recovery in the second half of 2016. Are you going to accept it or not? And if you do not accept it, you will tell us what strong reason makes you question the fact. Last October, when we first talked about it, all right, you had every right to question it. Now the Commission says so. The second half will have a recovery. So the idea that there is a coordinate strategy remains. You can blame us for many things, for what you want, but that's all there is. It is not a situation in which the government does not pursue a coordinated strategy. I will remind you of the main points of this strategy. We have promised large areas within the framework of the agreement and outside the framework of the agreement. At the moment, the government is moving within the framework of the agreement and without solely the limitations it put on it. Regarding, in other words, the fact that the expenditure should be limited or the contributions increased by EUR 1.8 billion in insurance or by EUR 1.8 billion in taxation - that was our commitment - we have chosen to move forward with deep reforms both in insurance and tax. Insurance introduces uniform, common rules for all social groups, operates redistributively and places greater emphasis on balance of contributions in a fair manner. The rule applicable to the salaries classes of the country, 20% of their salary to go to insurance, is to be a common rule for all social groups proportionally. So we have a cut, which we are moving forward, so that there are common rules for all of us in terms of both contributions and remuneration. We are talking about a sustainable system with all the smooth transition that it requires within it, in order to reach a sustainable system. Isn't that a plan? Isn't it an incision on the country's insurance system? [[Z' Vice-President of Parliament Ms GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS]] Secondly, with regard to the tax system, we insist and continue to insist that tax reform has a progressive mark. It concerns the increase in tax revenue from the most wealthy layers of Greek society, it is completely protecting the poorest layers and medium-sized layers, which - you know - have a marginal increase or a marginal reduction. It is a progressive reform. He's got a badge. It's not neutral. This tax reform - I repeat - which also has a medium-term perspective is a second major reform. The third issue is: The first assessment is a controversial issue and, of course, it has taken its time precisely because the government has come to it with these positions on taxation, insurance specific, specific positions on'red' loans. I would remind you that the agreement was reached on the issue of red loans and that is exactly what we promised, namely protection of first homes, protection of all borrowers, craftsmen, traders, etc., who have linked their loans, consumer and others to their first homes. We said that this was achieved in the agreement. Once the bill comes, you will see that it is very close to what we wanted and, at the same time, it does not even change to the minimum what is happening to date for the protective institutional framework that is applicable from what we voted on last September and October. So in the agreement and in this - which is of great importance - we have achieved what we have in many ways sought. In conclusion, I would like to say this: the economy with the first assessment reaches a limit point after which everyone expects what will be a turn of the economy into a positive sign. But this turns out to be characteristic. These are, firstly, reflected in the design by which the new European programming period is being implemented, the new ESDP, which focuses on areas and functions which are part of the country's new development plan. Secondly, the new development law, which has exactly the same characteristics, aims to finance and support businesses and investment in desired directions, which seek to change the country's development model. Thirdly, a large number of new institutions and new major reforms are introduced for the first time, which will have a huge impact on the economy. We are proclaiming the great proportion of public procurement, which will create a single universal system of public procurement, which will also save resources and open up the procurement market to small and medium-sized enterprises and create new data in a system that has a great deal to do with Greek society. The same applies to public concessions and other major legislative initiatives that are on the table and which will create a strong framework on which to turn to the economy, which we are all pursuing. If this is the case, I do not think that this is a government that is ready to resign - half the ministers and the Prime Minister have resigned last week! - a government that looks at the elections next week or a government which, firstly, does not know what it wants, secondly, what it wants cannot apply it, thirdly, must leave at all costs, the classic slogan we hear from the opposition. You could be more honest. Your main wish should have been, "Better you'd never come at all". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u472	Mr Moraitis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u473	Thank you, Mr President. Gentlemen of the co-government, the tough negotiations where propaganda swore, one lie succeeded the other, reassuring words and lionisms for the'red' lines in the negotiation were over. The bills we are discussing today came, which fully justify the title given by workers for 'laws - looting'. The insurance bill affects everyone, workers, farmers, unemployed, pensioners, young and old, freelance professionals, scientists, self-employed women. With the bill you bring, you form a new landscape in social security, where the State and the employer's participation is drastically limited. You're opening the way to dominate the private-security cords to transform the insurance into an individual case. The bill dissolves what was left of the social nature of the insurance, i.e. what the previous PASOK and New Democracy insurance laws had left standing. You are literally tearing the workers out, extinguishing the contributions to their insurance funds despite the usual tactics of the government trying to gold out the pill with gradual transition times into the new system.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u474	Please, be quiet. Sit down on the benches.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u475	The workers, the wide folk layers, must not be fooled by such manoeuvres. They must see clearly that sooner or later they are brought to ruin. Now with the insurance bill you are giving the gift shot at the poor medium-sized farms. You make an inappropriate dream of getting pensions. The insurance contributions you impose are forbidden for poor farmers. How do you do, gentlemen of the co-government? You start retrospectively from last year, July 1, 2015, the increases in insurance contributions and you reach the end of 2021 by 20%. Finally, you abolish charges of insurance per year. The poorest, the most impoverished will pay on the basis of 70% of the unmarried worker's wages over twenty-five years. In other words, for farmers the taxable amount will be EUR 4.922. In all this, there is an addition of 6.95 for health, 0.25 for the rural area. So what are you doing? Total premiums 27.20%. That is, 10,000 will pay almost 3,000 euros insurance. Who can pay and who can live with the rest of the money? Today, with the existing insurance contributions, which are around EUR 900, 50% of farmers are uninsured and in mountainous, poor areas this figure is 60% to 70%. Now with the tripling that you gradually make contributions, no poor farmer will be able to pay. They'll stay without insurance today and no pension tomorrow. The main victims will be women rural women. In these barbaric insurance measures, tax on what remains of agricultural income is also added. I would like to say two words about the false argument that we have seen between New Democracy and SYRIZA on subsidies tax. The truth is, one is washing the farmers and the other is combing them. You're literally kicking them out. SYRIZA's gentlemen, of course, you did the farmers' tax. That's true. But what did you actually do? With one hand you've done the dutyfree, and with the other hand you're grabbing it. You are taxing the basic aid, Mr Papadopoulos, which you are complaining about, which is 60%, 70% and 80%, especially in Thessaic Campos where many products do not receive aid or even 'green' subsidies.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u476	The cotton how much does it take?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u477	Let go of the cotton. Cereals don't get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u478	Oh, leave the cotton!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u479	So, what are you doing? You are literally cutting the farmers. That's not all. In the barbarity of this policy, you are rampantly attacking poor farmers from previous measures. What were you doing last summer on 15 July? You took VAT to the agricultural media and supplies from 13% to 23%. We also have a total abolition of the tax refund as from 1 October 2016. This is where the magnificence of the class character of your policy seems. In other words, you are cutting back on farmers while you are maintaining and subsidising the shipowners. EVIA remains at home, in the field, in the mantle, in the warehouse, in the carpets in ELGA, in the drills, in the radars, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u480	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u481	I'm done. Anger and indignation run out on the farm. The grand mobilizations from Crete to Evros, which set up the roadblocks in your agricultural policy, proved this. It was also yesterday outside, here in the Constitution, together with the workers, with the unemployed, the employees. Do what you can do, of course, to stop these games. You're maintaining the farmhouses, criminalizing the fights. Swallow winds, you will reap storms. We are clearly saying that poor medium-sized farmers have experience. They see that it is not a one-way path that crushes them for the profit of monopolies. One-way for them, for their survival, for their families, is the creation of the wide popular alliance aimed at breaking, overthrowing this barbaric policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u482	Mr. Mitafidis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u483	I would like to assure you, my dear fellow Member - if you will allow me to do so - that neither the agro-industrial courts, the pupils nor the'super-screwed' have anything to do with our own traditions. Because we are under conditions of financial coercion, we do not intend to sell our souls and the traditions of the working class that dawns tomorrow. Before, however, I talked about this, because for this purpose I went to Stepma, I would like, dear Minister, to mention that by representing the House, I was at the Jewish Cemetery a little while ago, where the few survivors and their families honoured the memory of their dead, dead women, girls and children. Because this total crime against humanity knew neither sex nor age. For the Nazis, which we have in this House, their imitators here, all of them were inhumane. I would like, Mr President-in-Office, to tell you, because I have heard that you will reintroduce Rule 50 on 'Solidarity', that I believe it was a great section of this article. I owe this to the workers, who are at the moment, as you know, lurking, because either in a fraudulent way, or through the remulsion, many employers have led their businesses to bankruptcy or to a merger in corporate schemes behind which they are hiding, leaving deliberately unsatisfactory of their obligations to workers. I hope that when reforming this article which you will bring next period, effective protection will be given to the thousands of workers affected by the consequences of bankruptcy or mergers of legal persons. As you know, forty of the number of SYRIZA Members we have brought an improvement in this article so that there is no possibility of listing the fair requirements of workers towards these employers. And you know who I'm talking about. A recent example is the "GENELIOROS" in Thessaloniki. Finally, in the very least time I have - I have already made the reference - I want to say that tomorrow is a great day for humanity. It is the anniversary of the anti-fascist victory of the peoples. It is the day that the Soviet army took Berlin and the Allied forces forced Hitler Germany into unconditional tradition. However, the question remains - and I have to say it as President of the Intergroup, the Interparliamentary Committee - an efficiency of justice in this country, and not just. Mussolini said: "We even got the shoes of our shoes." The question of justice remains, therefore, to the victims, as well as the return of the mortgage loan and the cultural treasures plundered by the occupying forces. It was very characteristic that he closed his speech at this event that I was a member of the National Board of Appeal of German Debts, Mr Marios Sussi, which I think sums up all of them. And that, if you want, is the emblem of the intergroup: "We don't forget. We don't forgive. We ask for a material and ethical restoration of the victims." I want to close with two events that marked our birthday city. As tomorrow, as you know, eighty years ago, we had the bloody labor uprising in Thessaloniki. Half of the murdered were pioneer workers of Jewish origin. Not by chance. I would also like to remind you that as early as tomorrow at the Kyppo Columbia, which today is the War Museum, and which, in fulfilling a request from the anti-dote resistance fighters, has given a memory place, after terrible torture, a colleague of ours was murdered by the anti-dote resistance officials, by MP Georgios Tsarouhas. I believe that when this Chamber is filled, we should keep a minute's silence in its memory. I will just say one sentence and close. The phrase is not mine. My stimulus was given by Mr. Spyros, when he reminded me of Mahatma Gandhi's phrase: "Become the change you wish to see in the world." I want to supplement it - May - with something else that belongs to what we call the historic acquis of humanity and not just the Left. I have taken it from Hegel: "People must not just seek respect for the trampled dignity and their rights, but take them on their own and do them their own." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u484	The Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr. Theanos Fotio, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u485	Thank you. We are therefore discussing and voting today on a bill known for at least six months to the Greek people and creditors. It raised a great deal of objections to lenders, caused a great deal of delay in the negotiations and the closure of the evaluation. That's the truth. For the first time, however, it has also caused a long and painful dialogue between government and institutions within a landscape that has shaped the constant and significant mobilizations of our people. It's a bill that was falsified and twisted consciously by the media as much as anyone else. Every day, for six months, the low pensioners, who support 50% of Greek families, heard that their pensions were being cut. The aim is to terrorize the popular layers, the great pool of poverty - which you have created for five years - and to convince SYRIZA that he lied, betrayed and resembled you. We have never set up such a great public lie with such unanimity, cohesion and lastingness. But today, "Sunday short holidays" and the irrationalities end. If we wanted to cut off pensions, did we need six months to do it? Couldn't we follow the scorched, fast, fast, fast track path you taught eleven times? You did horizontal cuts 11 times, to reach the average pensions from EUR 1,200 to EUR 800, with total silence, complicity with the media, without leaks, with excellent speed, with bills ready from abroad and so badly translated that you didn't make any sense. The lenders, however, made sense. They had it written. And they were content. This lesson we did not really learn. We're incapable of this. As we are unable to perform the contracts of interactivity in information, incapable of redundancies and wage reductions, unable to deliver the universities and hospitals to the eagles, unable to maintain the system of customer relations in public and local government, and to have the armies of the poster who you had. Let's talk to numbers. We in today's law have ensured that the current and future pensions of 87% of private and public employees, 90% of self-employed, 99.4% of farmers. What exactly are you talking about? On Monday, Euclid Tsakalotos will present to the Eurogroup with the most inconsistent elements what the lenders themselves, one after the other, confess. The country has complied with its commitments. The assessment takes place and we must enter into the debt negotiation, the debt that you have wanted for five years for viability certificates. That's what you asked. That's who you were. But let me remind you of what the country's commitments, which Parliament voted on in the summer, namely SYRIZA and the three opposition parties, New Democracy, Democratic Integration and the Potami, were. Here, then, is a major issue of political credibility and solvency. In the summer, therefore, you voted for a law with a name, No.4316, a law that was not called the 'Save of the country'. He had articles. You have voted for it both at the outset and on the articles. He had thirteen articles containing painful measures. That's what you voted for one - one. And I'll say seven of them. Unification of all funds in a fund. You voted for it. Gradually abolished CSR until December 2019. You voted for it. Continuation of the collection of HICPIA. You voted for it. 20 % tax for 2016 and 26 % for 2017. Direct rental tax - you voted for it - and increase. reform of a solidarity contribution. You voted for it. Reduction of insurance expenditure by 1% of GDP. Today you are voting against these articles. So who is unreliable and unreliable in this Chamber? Who put the sheep's sheep's sheep's sheep around unregulated? Who's throwing the country's dignity into the trash? Will the people trust you? The extreme tension within this Chamber, the indiscriminate insults, the group memory loss reveals one single fear: the fear that evaluation will be blocked positively in favour of the country and we will return to a page. Because your whole strategy is investing in the expectation of failure. This is why you are diligently avoiding condemning the unreasonable demands of the IMF. Do you wish for the deceased 'IMF State why did we burn'? For that is how you imagine the way to return to the chairs of power that you have used to forty years and it is painful to separate. With this expectation, your homogeneous and inner partisan landscape is homogenized. That's where our difference lies. You do not want, ladies and gentlemen, the negotiation fee to be beneficial to Greece, because your whole strategy is investing in the expectation of failure. That is why you are identified with the most backward political forces within the European Union and the IMF. This attitude, of course, is not new. You showed yourself in the period of February-July 2015, the same in the last elections as today. Your prominent officials then called on the citizens to withdraw their statements from the banks, today's party presidents, in an interview in a German newspaper, to call on creditors not to retreat and at the same time call on the government to sign what they presented to them, as they did for five years. Your anxiety if our country comes out in this unfavourable environment and the limitations it imposes comes from the fact that all your predictions proved godly, but in vain desires. You had predicted a financial failure with a high primary deficit. You're disgusted. You had predicted a deep recession. You're disgusted. You had predicted a government crisis. You're still waiting for her. Ladies and gentlemen, the insurance policy or the pension system we are discussing today is the one pillar of the social protection system, the system, that is to say, with which our society is trying to ensure that people who live in Greece have support for the difficult turnings in their lives, in old ages, in sickness, in unemployment, in disability. This system in Greece was built without a plan, anarchistically, clientele, is a waste, unjust, inefficient system. What have you been doing in the last five years of the crisis? Nothing! Absolutely nothing! All you could think about was cuts, however, without improving its viability. The reason is clear. It appeared in the famous Sprau report, in the Yannitsi plan, which you are all so fascinated by in the speech by Mr Mitsotakis in the debate on the House before the day. You want privates in the insurance system. In other words, you want the system in the United States, Britain, which has led to the loss of pensions and which now in Germany the whole party system is discussing how to get rid of it. You hide the fact that you want private insurance and zero deficit clause. What does that mean? It means that if the funds do not raise the money they need, the state does not complete. Let's explain it to numbers. How much is pension expenditure today? Is it 30 billion? How much does the state complement? Does it make up for 17.6 billion? That is what you would cut and say all these superstition things all this time. Is that what we are voting on here today a good system? In the current conditions that you have created for five years and bear full responsibility for them, it is a system with class division, in favour of weak, law, with uniform rules, which does not allow for exceptions and does not have "bugs". Ladies and gentlemen, the one we are voting on today is the first pillar of the social protection system. The other is the health system, and the third is the social welfare system, which I have the responsibility for. Is it a heavy responsibility that I have, why do you know where you brought the welfare in early 2015, where we received it? At the bottom of Europe. Total expenditure was 2.2% of GDP, at the bottom of Europe's twenty-eight, with an average of 4.1% of GDP. Do you know what this includes? It includes family allowances. We are last throughout Europe in this. That's what you delivered us. Why the crocodile tears today? The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 10000. The tears are coming again today for disabled people. You got them there. All tax exemption benefits. What did we do, we just got here? With absolute transparency, with common income criteria across the country, we gave 270 million to four hundred thousand families for a year, a card, a rent, a power. Tell us directly, take them off, announce them, what procedures and to whom exactly you have given the 500 million of the primary surplus you have given. Who exactly did you give? Because we now know that you have given them to specific groups of customers. That's why no one remembers them today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u486	Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u487	Not with income criteria, however, and you know exactly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u488	Don't be so trusted!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u489	We will change the whole social welfare system with a single system of social solidarity that will put an end to pluralism and evil. This single system will have three levels. The primary level, where there will be open protection structures, benefits and programmes. Single electronic register systems for beneficiaries, operators and programmes, which will be available in community centres. That's why you didn't vote for them, because what you want is not to go to the community center and have the whole range of those who can get, but permanently do the political mediators. That's what you wanted. That's over with you! It's over with community centers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u490	Mrs. Fotio, will you please finish?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u491	I'm ending with two words. At secondary level, institutions with huge properties, with sixty raccooned old people who do not feed them, with huge properties and thirty months to be unpaid by people who work in it. It's over here, too. The tertiary level - and here I am finishing - is destabilisation. What did you do about it? Absolutely nothing. We are the last country in Europe to dismantle. We'll change the waiting times for adoption, the residence times in the institutions. We will incorporate all those with mental disabilities into society and at work, the elderly. Ladies and gentlemen, the hopes of returning to power are no more than known. A long story started. Despite major commitments and difficulties, things will change. Be sure of that!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u492	At this point, before continuing, let me see how we will manage the time by 18.00’. I would like to inform the House that from 18.00 a.m., the chairmen of the parliamentary groups will begin to come. They've already declared the time they want to come to intervene. Therefore, from 18.00 p.m., may the honourable Members consider that there may be no possibility for any other Member to speak. There have already been requests from parliamentarians, where they have been in a series, for dentistry. In particular, we will start with Mr Loverdos, then two speakers - MPs, Mr Giannakides and Mr Bassiakos, and then Mr Dannelis, a Parliamentary representative from Potami and Mr Brutsis will be involved. At the same time, due to the fact that the single debate was decided, there were requests from the rapporteurs - special speakers from all the parties to have an intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u493	There are no requests, Mr President, there is the Rules of Procedure. Whatever the Rules of Procedure say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u494	Sit down, did I give you the floor? I'm trying to make it easier for...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u495	Whatever the Rules of Procedure say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u496	What does the Rules of Procedure say, tell me, after we have decided on the single market?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u497	What single, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u498	Ask everyone who participated in the Conference of Presidents and what was discussed yesterday when you were present at the beginning of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u499	I'll speak as long as the Rules of Procedure say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u500	We're wasting time. I would like to try - and I ask for your own contribution, for your help, if you like - to organise the debate in all our time. In fact, I told you until 18.00'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u501	I'm not talking again, but I'll talk as long as the Rules say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u502	To take advantage of this time by the rapporteurs too - special speakers of the parties to have their intervention. That is what I am trying to do, which, in my opinion, should have been organised since this morning, if you want us to come to an agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u503	It's not our responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u504	Look, the time is 16.35'. I told you by 18:00. Within sixty minutes and twenty-five, eighty-five minutes, this whole conversation should take place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u505	Don't look at me. That's not my responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u506	Don't you want me to look at you? Hey, I'm looking at someone, I'm looking at them all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u507	Okay, that's fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u508	Mr. Loverdos has the floor for four minutes. Then will Mr Giannakides, Mr Bassikos, Mr Danellis, Mr Brutsis, and we will continue with any rapporteurs - special speakers who want to speak. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u509	Mr President, we have tried - and to a large extent we have achieved this as a parliamentary group - to exclude from our conflicts and conflicts the President of Parliament and the Bureau for very serious and specific parliamentary reasons. We ask him with some opportunity to repack what she said to Mrs Christophilopoulou about us. Mrs Christophilopoulou protested, conveying a protest from the President of the Serres Bar Association, to policing the debate and the fermentation of MPs with the scientific bodies of the place and responding to the reply from the President of the Parliament, saying that we are behind preconcussions or we are behind deletions or we agree with deletions from collective bodies. Firstly, we are not like the SYRIZA - in itself they judge the alas - secondly, we disagree with any pre-contrast against a Member of Parliament for his attitude in this House and for administrative measures. And I repeat, we are protesting as a parliamentary group strongly against the President of Parliament and we ask him - I repeat - to revise. Mr. Minister for Labour and Social Security, three issues. The first issue relates to our amendment on the autonomy of the OGA. We want a specific position on this. The second issue concerns your intervention in changes that you have made in transitional periods. Why the rest of the sudden death? Why are you getting into the logic of the transition? You did not follow her in the summer of “15. That's where you made sudden death for 67. Now, you seem to be dooming and exempting some, but it is not equal treatment for your intervention. I want you to comment on it. Thirdly, you are told by all the wings of the House, both by the President of PASOK and by the head of the Democratic Alliance, by Mrs. Genemas, that there is a problem with disability pensions. Your State Secretary is complaining, but indeed by accepting a part of our amendment, you are completing the same level as the past exception and that is correct. We said you excluded less. You're fixing it. However, compared to their percentage you keep 20% to 22% down. And this is not a measure in favour of the weak, as is also, ladies and gentlemen of the Complex, it is not possible for the majority Member to wish mothers a long time and to vote for reductions in widow's pensions by 177 million in a few hours.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u510	But it's the current arrangement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u511	There is the tragic contradiction in this matter and you cannot ultimately triumph from the ministerial seats or from the parliamentary seats, ladies and gentlemen, when you have this piece of legislation today, which creates your final divorce with the Greek citizens, which will be ratified this evening by the vote. You must also be a little careful and respected and have a relationship with what you have brought to the vote today in the House. Finally, by listening to Mr Stathakis, but also others, I was trying to understand how the misplacedness of voted and articulated speech can be reconciled and since some people try it - that is - but instead of others - what reminds me of what is happening to me. The most appropriate example is the Gentiles of Brancale, who violated deserts and triumphantly triumphed. You have no right to refer to the press or opposition parties about what has been said or said about elections and referendums. The first two months after the election spoke of elections is the President of the Independent Greeks and Minister of National Defence. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. They reiterated this - and for referendums - a series of your officials last time and for elections. You come here to protest because some of the opposition may have said so, or the press writes in political reporting your own members. Look, there's something Shakespeare has said and I find it extremely timely.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u512	Finish, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u513	I shall conclude, Mr President. He has said that the road from seriousness to ridiculousness is very small. But vice versa the way from ridiculousness to seriousness is too big. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u514	Mr Giannakides, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor. Until Mr. Giannakides comes up in Step, I would like to make a warm request. After Mr Brutsis, the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, as we have already announced, tell us now which of the special speakers or the rapporteurs want to speak, to know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u515	On the basis of the parliamentary order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u516	Whoever's here, of course. Mr. Giannakides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u517	Thank you, Mr President. We must start by answering the question of whether or not the insurance reform is necessary. We believe it is because we really think we have to deal with a tragic situation in the system, a situation that has been created by previous governments with mismanagement policies, the destruction of the reserves, a scandal with the structured, stock exchange, PSI in 2012, with the loss of around 13 billion euros, and thus a situation in IKA that has a deficit close to one billion euros and the OSH has been established today. The previous governments have built up a complex and irrational insurance system with a large number of unregulated rules and very inequality because of the customer's logic of dealing with the insurance system. To realize this, it is only enough to think that IKA today has nine hundred different ways of calculating pensions. The above, together with your disastrous policies that led society and the new generation to deadlock, exploding unemployment, black and insecure work, flexible employment, reducing wages and pensions, destroying 25% of Greek GDP, plunging the Greek economy into the recession, have created an explosive situation in which we must today find a way out. More specifically, for IKA alone we have a 30% reduction in contributions between 2010 and 2014, 19.2% reduction in insured persons due to the launch of unemployment from 12% to more than 25%. Direct insured persons have fallen from 2.5 million in 2009 to less than 2 million in 2014, with 28% partly employed against 16% in 2009, while the retired person's relationship with IKA is 1/1,7, while in order to be viable it should have been at least 1/2,1. The wages of insured persons in IKA have been reduced by 21.8% over the past five years, while 46% of new employment contracts relate to part- or alternate employment, with a corresponding reduction in the contributions paid. In these circumstances we must take initiatives and build up a social security system that combines economic sustainability and social justice by introducing uniform rules for all, but also by addressing the explosive deficits of the funds without new horizontal cuts, but by rationalising the system. Thus, the proposed reform protects today's main pensions through the personal difference tool, the national pension, which is financed by the State budget and not by insurance contributions, strengthens the redistributive nature of the social security system, while the contributions are proportional to income rather than arbitrary insurance. The position of counter-population, and in particular of the parties that bear the sole responsibility for the current state of the country, the economy and society, remains consistent in the line of Mr Samaras - Venizelos, that everything was going well until they left power and that total responsibility for the state of the country, the economy and the insurance sector is brought to it by one year of governance of SYRIZA - ANLE. Convincing argument, but unconvincing. At the same time, it continues to defend the recipes of the past, the recipes for horizontal cuts, the application of the zero deficit clause to subsidiary, private insurance, the confiscation of agricultural subsidies for debts to the OGA. Ladies and gentlemen, the agreement signed in the summer of 2015, the result of a hard and painful negotiation, has become a state law with a large majority, regardless of whether some people today are impersonating. And in order to be completely honest, without negotiating the government, we should achieve primary surpluses of 4.5% for 2016, 2017 and 2018, which means that they would be removed from the Greek economy about 20 billion, while in 2014, the Samara - Venizelos Government did not catch the target of 1.5% primary surplus, because the primary surplus was ultimately 0.2%. This means that in 2015 it would start with measures of at least EUR 2 billion. And precisely because, with the summer agreement, we considered that the order of January 2015 was violated, we chose to resort to the Greek people's crisis. Then you told us that there was no need for elections and that you qualified for the establishment of an illegitimate government without a fresh people's mandate. You have also been used to these practices, especially since you opened the doors of Europe to the IMF.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u518	Mr. Giannakides, please, you'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u519	The September elections took place in the light of the agreement in a very specific context and knowing the fronts of the negotiations that remained open. The Greek people have given a new mandate to proceed not only with regard to the part of the agreement but mainly with regard to the necessary changes and conflicts, with the pathogens and bad texts of the past. And you are asking for elections, universal, resignation or anything else, not because you are concerned with the course of the country, the economy and the society, but because you see that this government goes beyond others and on issues that you have been hiding for so many years under the carpet. Lists of potential tax fugitives staring partners from the former Prime Minister, an invitation to tender for television licenses, where from the Step of the House you were bronze that you would not allow them to become...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u520	Mr. Giannakides, you've already reached six minutes. Please. Keep going, but please, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u521	We heard what the government had done beyond the part of the agreement. We must give some answers. In times of crisis, we have ensured full and free nursing, diagnostic and pharmaceutical coverage of all uninsured citizens, and that is about 1/4 of the Greek population. The plan to curb the humanitarian crisis is in full progress and concerns four hundred thousand of our fellow people. We have been triggered in thirty-two municipalities in high unemployment, eight-monthly new generation programmes for the targeted and integrated fight against unemployment. We have stopped the redundancies in the public sector and we have been on recruitment, especially in the areas that you have destroyed most, such as health and education.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u522	Mr. Giannakides, this is where you are. Hang up now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u523	The KHS was signed for the cultivation of industrial cannabis, implementing a law that had already been passed since 2013. We are aware of the difficulties facing us. We will not yield to the pressures of the lenders or the IMF, with which, unfortunately, the Anti-Population Officer's party is particularly identified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u524	Mr President, to speak more, if possible, to do so three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u525	Mr Bassiakos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u526	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the draft law on insurance and taxation measures takes place in a climate of uncertainty, insecurity, despair, which characterises the whole of society. Society's boiling. There's despair, there's sorrow, there's depression. It is easy to see if we are talking about the world, with all the social groups, with all the social groups. In the last two months I have had the opportunity to visit the whole of the municipalities and the former communities of my region, Boeotia, and really see the climate of despair and frustration that holds all the citizens, since the measures which you are announcing and which are going to come and which are going to be next, are affecting society as a whole. I believe that this is a negotiating mistake by the government, when he calls for 'data', to say that 90% or 95% of the citizens are not affected. This alone gives arguments, Mr Ministers, dear members of the government, to lenders to ask you for more measures. It cannot be said that they are not affected. They are also affected by the insurance and tax taxes that have come from the indirect taxes you are going to bring. They are covered by the ‘red’ loans. When a citizen has taken good faith in a housing loan, precisely to pay the interest rate that he could give under the terms of that time, does his property become degraded catalysts, cannot exploit it or sell it and be exposed to the bank, despite the fact that he has also contributed with his own resources? This, then, lack of stability together with increasing unemployment, reducing employment due to the withdrawal of industrialists, due to deindustrialisation, lack of investment and a climate that does not even encourage this entrepreneur who can hire, move on to recruitment and expand, leads to total uncertainty in our society. There's no social order that hopes for something better. Your measures have passed, announcements have been heard, but of course there are many inconsistencies. Today, the world sees that instead of the promised thirteenth pension, it has serious limitations and reductions in pensions, it has a very large increase in contributions. In fact, when they are not combined with the burden-sharing capacity of each citizen. Obviously, the burden-sharing capacity also belongs to the imposition of additional insurance contributions. How, then, is it going to get through when 60% or 70% of its income is intended to cover tax or insurance needs, and even at a time when the citizen is already overdebted by the previous burdens, which he already owes to banks, which he already owes to the Commonwealth Organisations? That is why the climate of uncertainty does not lead anywhere. On the contrary, there is a trigger and challenge and an incentive to relocate Greek businesses to neighbouring countries, which provide much better tax and installation conditions with very fast licensing and very low income scales to relocate Greek businesses abroad and hope that they might hold a branch in Greece. What does that mean? Unemployment. So when we have these serious problems, which concern the unemployed, the employees, the pensioners, the free professionals to whom you are creating a suffocating climate of increasing contributions and taxation, how do we expect recovery? As you know, our problem is the deficit problem and the public debt problem. Public debt is valued as one reason, as a reckon of public debt in an absolute number to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) that is income. If we do not look at the income, the ways in which we will increase the Gross Domestic Product, how will we improve this relationship and from 175%, which is today the debt ratio for Gross Domestic Product, how will we reduce it and how will we improve it? No one is talking about growth, no one is talking about investment, no one is motivating investment, and obviously there can be no investment when there are such high tax rates, when licensing is so difficult and when there are so many incentives in neighbouring countries. And I come to the farmers now. We're feeding the farmers. Farmers are marginally viable. We cannot blame them on farmers when the prices of products depend on world prices, which, for some products, are known to be the same from regions since 1980. Take the wheat and oil, for example, that are our classic common products. And the wheat and oil have been soaring since 1980. Some come out very easily and say that farmers are stealing. But I'm not talking about thieves. I am talking about healthy people, about prudent and consistent farmers, who have to deal with them at the same price of the product, with about the same yield, but at very high production costs, which has been increased by PPC, due to spare parts, due to the price of fertilisers and so on. What do we do for all this? Nothing at all. We therefore have the primary sector which is facing other problems: increased electricity, abolition of excise duty on oil and a number of other problems such as VAT, subsidies and compensation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u527	Mr. Bassiko, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u528	So very briefly, I would like to say that these measures do not lead anywhere. Unfortunately, on the occasion of the election of the President of the Republic, a very positive perspective was provided by our previous government, which was to the limit of overcoming the stumbling block and to be in front of the markets, and now we are in a deadlock. I hope that things will go better, not to say inconsistencies and lies to cover and thank the ears of the world and to tackle the problem seriously. Because the recipe is wrong. We are not going to go in a virtuous circle, bring growth. We will remain in the recession, the crisis, the difficulties. The reform measures referred to are deregulation measures. That is why we are voting against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u529	Mr Venizelos has the floor for ten minutes, and then the parliamentary representatives, as Mr Dannelis, Mr Brutsis and Mr Pappas have said, will follow. Here, Mr. Venizelo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u530	Ladies and gentlemen, it has been sixteen months since the January 2015 elections. It is therefore reasonable and fair to ask ourselves where the country was in December 2014 and where it is today. Of course, there is no evil of good. The good news is that demagogues, lies, slanders, easy promises, conspiracy, vulgar populism. The good news is, yes, it turned out that there was no economic and moral prerogative of the so-called 'antimonetary policy'. There was neither Thessaloniki Programme nor the proud negotiation, nor red lines, nor alternative strategy, nor elementary consistency and sense of responsibility. You licked where you spit. I've said it many times, but now it turns out to be awkward. Instead of abolishing the memorandum, we have reached the third, and now we have reached the fourth Memorandum, together with the debt issue, a fourth Memorandum to provide what has already been given since 2012 and which, unfortunately, the markets are not able to benefit positively for the country, because there will always be the openness of fulfilling the conditions laid down in this supplementary memorandum. Instead of 'levedi' unilateral actions, for nominally so-called 'cut', to stop payments, you beg for a statement that the PSI supplement of 2012 will be given, which you now see as something unthinkable. No evil things of good. But evil is great. Because from a positive growth rate in 2014 - already in the second half of 2013 - we have been in a cumulative recession these two financial years and I think the omens are very bad. Total loss exceeds 7 points of GDP cumulatively. That is why we are leading to severe antisocial measures for insurance and excessive tax burden. Because we lost the dynamic of growth and returned to the recession. The retreat, which was a conscious political choice, costs Greeks and Greek women in insurance, taxation, employment, business, the country's perspective. From the primary surplus and the social dividend of 2013, if you remember, we returned to the loose end if we can achieve a primary surplus and how much, as if the primary surplus can be achieved by itself, without the denominator that is the positive growth rate. To achieve surpluses, you must have a positive rate of growth. That's what our deal with partners and lenders always said. The country has had a primary surplus for nine years all the time, I remind you, from 1994 to 2003, but of course at a high rate of growth. Now, instead of talking about the denominator, about the growth rate that the country needs to achieve, you have been caught again in a sterile debate about whether the IMF or the European Commission's surplus assessment applies. All because you are deliberately wasting time at the expense of the national interest, at the expense of the citizens' financial situation, just to find internal prerogatives. Because society doesn't believe anything any more than you say. But you need an inner-party narrative, because this is the only way to keep a group in power. In addition, you have done the worst: You have made the unfortunate interconnection of evaluation, refugee and foreign and security policy and defence. This leads to a dangerous deterioration of national power. It puts national interests under pressure in the Aegean and the Eastern Mediterranean. NATO's presence was completely unprocessed and has become dangerous. Turkish unilateral claims and doubts, in violation of international law, are also recorded in law and in practice on a daily basis, unfortunately. And no one is watching what is happening in Cyprus. Gygeli and not Idomeni, the first city in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, has become the de facto European border. And we have become a single space with Turkey and the flows depend on Turkey, its internal policy, the Erdogan-Davutoglu conflict, whether the waiver of the visa requirement for Turkish citizens will be granted. I wonder: are you aware of the damage you caused and caused to the economy and national power? Are you aware of the comicotractual inconsistencies? I can invoke many examples. I think the most schooling is your attitude to the International Monetary Fund. You criticised us when we said that we did not want the IMF to participate in the prudential credit line, if you remember it, which we would enter in March 2015. You wanted it as a lever for debt intervention. The debt intervention will, however, be made by the European partners who have given the loan. Then, at your request, you formally requested the participation of the IMF in the third programme and this has not yet been ensured. The third memorandum is only with Europe. Now you're denounced. Then you were foolishly and injuriously involved in the case of the intercept. And now? Now you have brought us the worst insurance, as I have said, because of the recession and the backwardness, and unfortunately we are on the way, because the numbers are not locking. You have brought the most anti-development tax, and you are on the way and all have collapsed, the red lines, the red loans, all objections, reservations, everything. Look, be aware of the numbers. EUR 12.5 billion is the minimum and not the maximum of the measures that will be forced, unfortunately, to take the country under the responsibility of the government and the vote of the parliamentary majority of SYRIZA - ANEL. And that in 2016, when you received the country under primary surplus conditions. And you made the challenging comparison with what we found in 2009, 2010, 2011 with a primary deficit of 10.5%, a budgetary deficit of 15.7% and a current trade deficit of 15% of GDP. So what is your plan, ladies and gentlemen of the government? Let us say that one scenario is the innocent, institutional, the implementation of the third and fourth memorandum, the taking of measures and other measures again, the mere promise by partners of the complement of the PSI to the debt, but under conditions that keep the doubt on the markets and afterward, the anguish in power and the anticipation of recovery in 2018, to politically capitalise the alleged recovery, faithfully implementing the Memorandum Policy in the most extreme form. This is very simple but also a very difficult scenario, because your very presence makes it impossible and undermines it. The second scenario is the "seeing and doing", at the expense of the place, merthodol- merfoy, as long as you stay in power days, hours, against all honors. It is inadequate and dangerous because of the scale of your responsibilities. Scriptural third - what I want to stress - is that you play again in any case players, taking responsibility for the bad partners, for the IMF, for the bad opposition, for playing an extreme landscaping game with institutions, with justice, with the independent authorities, with the referendum, a dangerous game with national issues, a dangerous game with currency. Therefore, the issue is not an economic issue, but democracy and the rule of law, because all that I am describing are not economic policy issues, but issues of respect for institutions, democracy and the rule of law, human rights. Do not retreat like this and, above all, do not have the illusion that the confirmation of the parliamentary majority is more worthy than the circumstance in which it is being carried out. Governments, ladies and gentlemen, do not just fall when they lose the parliamentary majority or when they consider that they have to make the choice of early elections. They fall under the weight of common outcry and even worse, fall under their responsibility when they play with fire. You're trapped in your existential contradiction. But you have unfortunately also entangled the country in a national deadlock. The country needs to hope and you are threatening it and scaring it, so that you are supposed to have a political account. The country needs to be united, and you divide it into a false planning base, leveling everything up to the lowest level. The country needs to move forward, to go beyond the memorandum, to come out of the crisis, and you put it increasingly deeper into a memorandum regime, playing the good children of European creditors. Greece's issue is primarily political, so. It comes from the fact that you are in the government, extorting history, and that cannot actually pull much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u531	We will give Mr Kurubli the floor before the parliamentary representatives begin, as we had said before. It has been declared by the Government Secretariat that Mr Kurublis will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u532	Mr President, we have said that Mr. Dannelis will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u533	Yes, he will speak after the Minister. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u534	Mr President, we have been following the representatives of Anti-Population these days with a logic that actually causes thought, with a dilapidated surge, as if they had come down from virginity, as if they hadn't ruled the country. The question is how the country arrived here. Isn't there any responsibility at all? Are there no responsibilities for how the insurance funds have been managed over the years? [[Noise from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] I listened very carefully to Mr. Venizelo. Learn to listen. You can go up to the Step and answer. Don't give up on that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u535	Please. Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u536	When addressing me, be careful. [[Noise from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] Yeah, yeah. You can scream. Okay. With the cries, you think you'll grasp your responsibilities.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u537	Please. Any holidays you take are at the expense of the next speakers. Keep going, Mr. Kurubli.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u538	Mr President, the funds still do not have an integrated computer system. When should that have been, ladies and gentlemen? And if it had been done for twenty years when the technologies were available, how much would they have been protected from waste and grabbing from presidents in funds that were buying without decisions of the boards of directors rotten shares and who would have been rich at the expense of the funds?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u539	You've been a government MP.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u540	How much would there be fore and prevented by the pensions -'monkeys', fictitious pensions?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u541	Please, be quiet. If you want to discuss, you can come out of the room.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u542	So for all this, yesterday, Mr. Giannitsis, invited you to do so, and Mr. Giannitsis, who has known a lot about these issues, that is, about it had happened to the funds all these years. But you know, memory hurts when you touch her. With rhetoric, then, you come here, without a moment and without taking responsibility, because it wants braveness in politics to assume your responsibilities and say, "Yes, there have been mistakes, there have been weaknesses that have led to them." Anyway, that disaster didn't happen physically. He didn't come from the sky. It was the result of certain options that were made. So you come here crying with crocodile tears about pensions. You're suffering from pensions. But when you were all able to protect the little pensions of EUR 500 - because you had that right, you had that possibility - you did what Aristotle says. He said the greatest inequality is to equate inequality. That's what you did.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u543	And you voted for the first Memorandum.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u544	So you cut the little pensions of EUR 500, you cut the Christmas and Easter gift, you cut the allowance. The Greek people know that. [[Noise in the Chamber]] The Greek people have a memory. So he knows where the responsibilities are. He knows each other's responsibilities separately. You think, however, that you will be relieved of the Naples verbally saying that crimes are collectively responsible. It's not like that, though. There is also the responsibility of everyone, and above all those who have been in power and who have had the responsibility and the opportunity to make decisions, to make proper management, to protect public money. Today, therefore, the insurance system is where it is located. Is there a man in Greece or in Europe who disputes the need for radical intervention? So instead of coming here and having a creative conversation, with alternative corrective proposals perhaps on individual issues, you come with curses, with rages, as if you had no involvement in what has been done. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at a very critical moment and everyone recognises that political stability in the country is directly linked to what we are all asking for and everyone is approaching it in their own way, the famous development. We're all talking about growth. There is, of course, a question there. Others speak of growth aimed at numbers and others talk about growth that is aimed at society, the collective potential of all to participate in the product of development. But let's put this aside for now. So while we all recognise this necessity and even Mr Stournaras said in a public statement a month ago that it is a matter of development with political stability, you come here and ask for a government that the Greek people voted for eight months ago. Ladies and gentlemen, you are smuggling democracy itself when that logic comes to you, because you are just coming to ask for an effort to be stopped. So let this party be governed by the Greek people's vote and who had the ethos and political freeness and the presence to tell the Greek people in the September elections what difficulties they expect him to see. And it was the first time in public things that happened. Instead of showing patience and creative criticism, your goal is to overturn the government. And one wonders: Do you have such a passion with chairs? Can't you be patient at all? [[Laughers - applause from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] People are watching you. He sees you too, he sees me. He sees you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u545	Destroyer! You're talking and you're causing up!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u546	Please! Don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u547	You've become a "heavy" of the Right,... [[Noise - protests from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] ...be the new right now and since you can't protect the story of your offending, don't humiliate it. That's what I have to tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u548	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u549	Mr President, I have not heard the excellent speakers of counter-population these days talking about this research carried out by the Institute of Berlin, whose chairman is an economist advisor to the German Government. What did this institute do? He worked systematically for every loan. And where did he end up? He concluded that with 220 billion loans, all you did was save the German and French banks and the corrupt Greek banking system. That's what you did. And after you cry out against me, take the Minutes to read that when I was a PASOK MEP I did not vote for the provision that came back then - before they deleted me - on the guarantee given by the state to banks, demanding that there be a percentage of this money for the real economy. How much did it go out of the 220 billion, protecting foreign banks, in the real Greek economy? Nine billion. And how will growth be? Metaphysical, ladies and gentlemen? That's the reality. In the face of this crime, which has been committed, will no one assume political responsibility to say that a mistake has actually been made? I'll tell you something. Very soon we will know how the loans were managed in the other states which had entered a programme and then see what you will answer these issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u550	Minister, because the time has ended, warm request to complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u551	All right, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is also a big issue that is currently evolving in Europe and which concerns TTIP. Instead of discussing these major issues that try to limit state entities, giving power to the multinational companies to inspire states, instead of discussing these issues that our children and our grandchildren can turn into neonates in Europe, we are constantly hearing a sterile, negative criticism. We'll be listening to the parties' leaders in a few minutes. We'll hear Mr. Mitsotakis. I read the motion of censure made by New Democracy to Andreas Papandreou the day before yesterday. The designations of that time were: “You are a liar, you are incapable, you must leave. You are the man who destroyed Greece".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u552	Mr. Curublis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u553	I shall conclude, Mr President. That is what Mr Mitsotakis then said today. But the new leader of the New Democracy did not tell us about the reforms he made in this ministry. What did he do about interoperability of databases? What did he do to codify legislation? Why have EUR 7 billion been spent from 2000 until now on interoperability of databases and does not button any system with each other? No one's ever gonna answer that? Ladies and gentlemen, there is also one issue - and I will close, Mr President - concerning the two thousand new brains studied by the Greek people, the Greek family, the Greek mother - and today is the celebration of her mother - from the blood of her soul. And today, instead of offering their services home, these people have taken their teams and are abroad. I, as far as I'm concerned, feel accountable to these people in the time I'm in this position. But no one has heard these days talk about these people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u554	Minister, please, please, finish up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u555	I'm closing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u556	There are now suffocatingly narrow margins of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u557	Homeland needs a new account, a new generic patriotism, which will truly transform social inertia and social passivity into a collective effort to bring all of us together to this crisis. So here it is a glorious field. We'll all be judged. And the interlocutors and the opposing ones. [[Noise from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] We'll all be judged by our attitude and behaviour, and that's where we'll record what's in each other's minds and minds. So I call on you, even now, to 'the twelfth and five', which John Chrysostom said, to assume your responsibilities, to demonstrate your confidence in being able to be useful at the place even now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u558	We will give the floor for a few seconds to Mr Alexiadis, who had asked for some clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u559	Mr President, what are these things?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u560	I don't understand. What are you yelling at?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u561	Make an observation. Yuhaun, Mr President. Where are we?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u562	Mr Alexiadis has the floor to make some clarifications.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u563	Mr President, I do not want to make any legislative improvement or to table any amendment. I would like to make a clarification because there has been an inconvenience. There are also suspensions, etc. ........................................ As regards the tax-free payment after EUR 20,000, Article 112, ex Article 113, as established after the amendment and the legal improvement, paragraph 2 remains, which states that for taxable income from hired services and pensions which exceeds EUR 20,000, the reduction is reduced by EUR 10 per 1000 of the taxable income from wages and pensions. So there's no problem. It was taken care of yesterday by the amendment and by the legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u564	Good. Thank you, Mr Alexiadis, for clarifying. The Parliamentary spokesman from Potami, Mr Dannelis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u565	Thank you, Mr President. So let's turn the page.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u566	... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u567	Please, Mr. Triantafylides, be quiet! It is at the expense of all Members of Parliament who want to speak. Please be very calm! Come on, Mr. Dannelly, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u568	So I was saying that I wanted to table my absolute disagreement...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u569	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u570	Why did I get to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u571	I tried...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u572	Please. Please. I didn't give you the floor. You're interrupting speaker, Parliamentary spokesman. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u573	You're obsessed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u574	Come on, Mr. Dannelly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u575	Peace beside me. So I was saying that I would like to table my complete disagreement with the attitude of the threat of deleting colleagues who will vote tonight in the law on insurance from the scientific associations and chambers. I think it is high time we all understood our distinct and institutionalized and demarcated roles. It must also be understood that their MPs are judged by the Greek citizen, when the time comes, by his vote. We must also understand that the time when the guilds imposed economic policies have passed away. And because I have to talk at least about my home, the Technical Chamber, perhaps it would be wiser, long ago the Technical Chamber was more concerned with the resources of the CSMEDE and, of course, with the various games played with the ATTIC. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, we, as we have said, will not vote for the bill, because it is unfair and ineffective, since it does not seem sustainable. Also, the bill is counterproductive, because it is pushing towards tax evasion and tax evasion, so fatal toward further deinvestment. We, the river, have tabled a comprehensive proposal of another logic. We didn't create and we didn't demean, mocking ears. We have said and said that this reform is necessary as little reforms as it can and certainly has a significant cost and it will unleash a number of them. But the proposal we have tabled is both realistic and fair and also among the workers who are called upon to manage their future and ensure sustainability, because it ensures pensions for those who bear the greatest weight, for young people today's workers, when it comes to receiving pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, I will say it again because it is one of the basics. Redistribution doesn't work with the insurance system. Redistribution we do with the tax system. Of course, we cannot talk about an insurance system without compensation. No insurance system can stand without ensuring reciprocity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u576	Thank you, Mr. Dannelly, and the economy in time. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative Mr Brutsi has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u577	Mr President, for decades now the political system has been trying to defend our country's anthropogeographical specificity, islandity and mountainity, and had taken some measures. The main measures were two: one was the tax shield in island Greece, the special VAT arrangements, and the other was the special scheme for insurance contributions to villages below the two thousand inhabitants. Today the process of discussing the tax and insurance of the SYRIZA and ANEL Government is being completed. I personally negotiated both with the Troika, which has never stopped claiming it, not by some empathy for the geographical specificity of our country, simply by wanting to close the budgetary gap - when and whenever there were - indicated areas that we could intervene. Never as a New Democracy, but also the former New Democracy government, we did not deliver these two sanctuary for our country, the sacred shields, of these regions. Unfortunately - I am sorry to say this - you have handed over the islands' special status. It's a national loss. And today, with your bill, Minister, social security, you are condemning to knee the villages under two thousand inhabitants, small shops and cafes. And you know that the increase in their contributions is over 80%. That's the reality. The second thing I have to say is that today's debate is to conclude with two top issues, as they appear. The first is the surprise - which others have been waiting for, but at least the word 'ethical' in politics always remains and we all hope for the concept of credibility - that is, the tax-free one, which you brought at EUR 8,860. There was a commitment by the Finance Minister, on resignation, that not the EUR 9,500 that New Democracy had, but the EUR 9,100 would be affected. And the second, which is really going to be very heavy for the country's rural world, is that it now comes by explicit provision and taxs - because it concerns taxation - as insurance contributions to farmers' subsidies with 27.2%. And I'm closing. I'm taking Mr. Kurubli to Step. I belong to the new generation of politicians. I entered Parliament in 2007. I consider it challenging, however, - it is not now in the Chamber - that Mr Kurublis speaks from a Stephen of Parliament and asks the National Representation: 'Who has ruled this place for forty years?' So, let me tell you who has governed it: Mr. Spirtzis, Mr. Toskas, Mr. Bollaris, Mr. Kourublis, Mrs. Jack, Mr. Katrougalos, Mr. Kotzias, Mr. Mardas, Mr. Paradise, Mr. Sguridis. All these people have ruled the place, and today they are on the table, Mr President. [[Applause from the wings of the New Democracy and the Democratic Alliance PASOK - DIMAR]] That is why he wants seriousness when people are addressing and inducing the Greeks' intelligence. Because everyone has memory in this Chamber and outside of this Chamber mainly on such issues of moral importance and order. I should like to close the matter of insurance as follows: I have said so in my central speech. You'll vote for the insurance. The question of insurance remains an open challenge for the New Republic. I repeat: an open challenge remains! All these disparities that you are creating, all this economic inefficiency for us is a challenge, to which we will take legislative action, always with respect for the budgetary limitation that exists for the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u578	The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Poppas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u579	Mr President, at the end of my post as Parliamentary Representative of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, the Minister of the Government of SYRIZA Mr Skourletis has spoken to me personally with designations which, unfortunately, the President-in-Office of the Council, has been allowed. Mr. Bored did not respect ethics and parliamentary order. The names of Mr. Skourletis I probably shouldn't have answered. I have received a lot of phones in my office and I have finally been unable to respond, because I believe it is a requirement of the reasonable world that is following us. So without wishing to continue and worthy to this gentleman, I would like to say that the designations he has made against me, against the popular nationalist movement, and against the hundreds of thousands of voters at the end of the Golden Dawn call him. Anywhere, Mr. Skourlet? How did you get that right? Can I answer that? The intoxication of power? So you are being returned, Mr. Skourletis! And let me tell you, poetic permission, you literally sell protection in shops, and I mean at the SYRIZA store, which you will soon get at 4%, where your components, which have never ceased to be eaten, like dogs, will still be eaten. The wise people say "Where I am and where I am you will come", because the God of Greece will not leave the country and will one day bring the national government and national liberation. You, Mr. Skourletis, are visiting criminals - yours, the Lambrou - condemned last sentence for terrorism. You, your people were witnesses in the 17 November trials. You, your lawyers are protecting the anti-powered and always making them oil, even though when they are arrested by ELAS for unlawful actions. You have been pimps for decades now of the Greek people's social struggles. You have been robbed by the slogan: "Psalm, education, freedom". You're the ones who pluck into listening to the national trifle: "Patris, religion, family"! It scares you and hurts the existence and the struggle and the rise of the Golden Dawn. It hurts you for what we are, that is, genuine, unblemished, folk, fighters, believers, with vision, with a program and a plan for the bright future of the country, for the golden dawn of Hellenism. And it does, and it hurts you, and it scares you. We are not like you, we are neither ethnicly-negotiated left foraddezes nor mason-right patriots foradzi. You have lost them, and that leads you to the wrong tactics within Parliament. It is our pleasure to repeat today's indebtedness to collect as much as possible the scam of the Greek people. Mr President, I have a minute to get into the point of the bill. And to say this: the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative said that 'we will vote against', making a cheap opposition. Why, Mr. Brutsi? You voted in February 2011 in the second memorandum, i.e. PASOK, LAOS and New Democracy. You voted for it, and on the basis of this memorandum - and I will give it for the Minutes - pensions and wages are the same as the rest of Southeast Europe and the neighbouring countries. You voted for Bulgaria's pensions and salaries and now you come to make cheap opposition. You've been revealed as a cheap Customization that doesn't lead anywhere. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u580	Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u581	First of all, something about staff. I read on the websites - I wasn't listening to you when I was on the Stepma - that when you were standing and screaming, you said "to tell your family to be careful".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u582	I never said that! Don't put things in my mouth that I didn't say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u583	I would therefore like this to be heard and recorded if you said so in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u584	That is not the attitude of a minister, and indeed of a minister. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u585	Mr. Poppa, don't interrupt. If you want, you can ask for the floor. Let Mr. Skourletis speak. Nothing's been recorded. Ask for the floor, if you wish, then answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u586	You have diligently avoided this intervention now to refer to what I have actually witnessed to you. So what? That you're a place where you've defended the hangars, the juntas, the coups. You want democracy, dialogue and, above all, you are defending an ideology which disturbs you if the other has a different colour from you and that is capable of destroying it. One last. For now, because...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u587	What are you talking about? Shut your mouth!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u588	Please don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u589	Take it easy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u590	You take us to court unjustly, innocent people!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u591	That's where I'd come. When we were discussing the request, and it was the debate on the unconstitutionality of the bill, Mr. Pappas spoke and threatened to find ourselves in the stand. You said that, Mr. Pappa, you don't question it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u592	I didn't say...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u593	For now, you're on the stand and you're charged with murder!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u594	You said the same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u595	So when this case is over, then you have the stature of the politician to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u596	Really?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u597	Mr. Skourlet, who's charged with murder?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u598	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u599	Mr. Pappa, warm request to stop...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u600	For a minute, Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u601	Just a minute, so we can continue the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u602	Say it to your front, you've modified him, man!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u603	Idiot!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u604	Mr. Poppa, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u605	Who's charged with murder, you idiot? You'd like to, but it's not like that!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u606	Will we stop, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u607	You're such an idiot!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u608	Will you stop?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u609	Idiot? What are these things, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u610	Get them out!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u611	Mr. Pappa, we said for a minute to take the floor. [[Noise in the Chamber]] [[Noise from the Golden Dawn wing]] You're very welcome. Will you stop?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u612	Aren't you embarrassed?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u613	Mr. Rabbit, don't make me take action.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u614	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u615	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u616	If I come in here to rub your forensics in your face, what are you gonna do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u617	Please, the guard will remove Mr. Bunny from the Chamber. [[Noise in the Chamber]] [[Noise - voices from the Golden Dawn wing]] Please get Mr. Rabbit out of the Chamber! The sitting is suspended for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u618	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. Ladies and gentlemen, given the circumstances, we are reopening the sitting for a fourth, for fifteen minutes. You can come out of the room, if you like.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u619	Ladies and gentlemen, our meeting is reopening after about half an hour of interruption. Since Mr Raggios left the Chamber, the Bureau decided unanimously, on the basis of Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on disciplinary measures to violate the Rules of Procedure or on inappropriate behaviour, and on the basis of Rule 81 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, the temporary exclusion of Mr Rabbit from the sittings, with the possibility of further exclusion from the sittings of the House until 15 days. [[Applause]] We continue the meeting with the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Barkas. We will give the rapporteurs five minutes, with a slight tolerance. Here, Mr Barkas, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u620	Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, starting my speech, I would like to welcome to the planet Earth the MPs and members of the New Democracy and the PASOK, who in their efforts for the "first time New Democracy" or "first time PASOK" or "first time all together", once again claim power, as if they did not rule forty years, as if the Migration began in January 2015 and want to come back, in order to continue their destructive work, which is responsible for the country's crisis and bankruptcy. Ladies and gentlemen, you have been imprisoned for years in the body of social security. And, not to forget, what you had voted and wanted to implement and which you should achieve without negotiating our own government is primary surpluses of 4.5% for 2016, 2017 and 2018. Let me remind you that our primary surpluses are much smaller. These primary surpluses, which you wanted to achieve, had 20 billion meters more for 2015 and 2016 alone. Also, in 2014, the year we had the success story of the government of Mr Samaras and Mr Venizelos had to get a primary surplus of 1.5%. The primary surplus was 0.2% according to EUROSTAT. This means that in 2015 it would start with measures of 2 billion. We reiterate the commitments of the fifth evaluation: it is EUR 3.7 billion agreed measures, EUR 2 billion undetermined measures and EUR 2 billion to fill the 2014 gap. So starting point for 2015 is EUR 7.7 billion. The commitments you made were: zero deficit clause, mass redundancies and lock out, reductions in public sector wages and new redundancies of civil servants. This is the situation that our government had to reverse and succeeded, with very tough negotiation. We did not start from point zero, but we had to reverse and overthrow the commitments of the Samara - Venizelos government. We have therefore succeeded through negotiation and on the basis of the mandate we took in the September elections - to remind you that elections were held in September - that is to say, we have been instructed to implement an agreement in compliance with: no reduction in the main pension, protection of the first residence and public status of IPTO. In view of the limited time available to me, you will allow me to refer to the main articles in the bill we are discussing today. The bill establishes a single social security scheme under which all the social benefits of the State are granted. The national pension is introduced. He has a guarantee and a redistributive function. It ensures universal protection against poverty and social exclusion. The issues of parallel successive insurance and employment of the pensioners are regulated and provisions of the Code of Civil and Military Pensions are amended or supplemented. Issues of private sector uninsured are regulated. Provisions regulating the contributions of employees and employers and self-employed scientists respectively are introduced. Significant facilities are provided for young freelance professionals and self-employed scientists. The question of insurance contributions to the OGA is favourablely regulated. Let me remind you here, this is the article in question for villages with under two thousand inhabitants, Article 40(1) and (3). It is trying to combat uninsured work. For four years, a more favourable transitional arrangement is introduced for self-employed scientists from the EIF. The proposed provision adjusts the tax rates of earnings from employed persons and pensions. The bill, ladies and gentlemen, which we are debating two days in this House, is a pretext for being a class bill and for defending them until now unprotected. He runs with an elite, which until now has been in the unprecedented, is the political allies of PASOK and the New Democracy, which is why the big lawyers are marching, which is why the majestic doctors are marching, which is why they are red and darkened by the previous ministers. Unfortunately, the Greek people did not give you the right to sit in peace, once again, to ministerial peoples. Ladies and gentlemen, the way we have chosen is a difficult road, with references. But we decided to walk him, defending the great majority of society, because that is where we come from, we do not belong to your own political elite. We will not do you a favor, however, to come back to power, because you have been there and the results are well known. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u621	The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Economou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u622	Mr President, could I have the floor for a legal improvement?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u623	Mr Economou, allow me to give Mr Alexiadis the floor for a few seconds, who wants to make an intervention for a legislative improvement. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u624	Delete from the former Article 114, which now has number 113, the last Article of the second paragraph. This paragraph shall be deleted. It will return to a new bill, with new, technically better wording and fairer, proportional tax structure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u625	Minister, put it in the Minutes, so that it can also be shared with the Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u626	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u627	Please, Mr. Economou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u628	Mr President, after so many hours of procedure, if we did not have the texts of the legislative initiative of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government before us and listened to the ministers or representatives of these parties and to the opinion they want to pass to public opinion, we could indeed go crazy about what we are hearing. Especially with the Minister of Finance, Mr Chakaloto, who brought the tax to EUR 8,600. In other words, for the first time in Greece, the rich in the country of EUR 600 a month pay tax. That's him. Instead of being ashamed of these behaviors and those of his failures, he also brings his ally, Mr. Skourletis, who, in all other things, comes and asks, together with Tsakalotos, of course, and a little with Mr. Stathakis, namely the financial staff and the staff of development: "With whom are you? That's what you're asking. You have great anxiety these days to ask who we are. So here's a description. Last summer, bringing the third memorandum here, in this Chamber, you were all saying that this weight and this agreement are EUR 6.8 billion. That is what you said, that it is EUR 6.8 billion - not even EUR 7 billion. That was the third memorial. You voted for it. We have also voted to keep the country in Europe and in the euro. You have taken measures of 3.6 billion euros. What measures? Do you remember them? Remember what you voted for? VAT on islands, 23% on VAT and many other measures of EUR 3.5 billion. Did you vote for them, yes or no? These were for the third memorandum, to move forward with the perspective of evaluation. We are coming today and we have EUR 5.4 billion. Today, Mr Stathakis! And that cannot be reflected in the 2015 GDP. Today you will vote for these measures. Well, we have 5.4 billion euros. That's what it's doing 9 billion euros. Mr. Stathakis, Mr. Tsakalotos, Mr. Skourletis and the other group, EUR 9 billion with today's account have anything to do with the EUR 7 billion that you told us last summer? One question. For these EUR 3.6 billion, which you are discussing, your question is whether there are EUR 3.6 billion, and what do we or your question is how are you going to pass on to the parliamentary group, firstly, and to the people, secondly? Do you know why I'm telling you? If you are given the opportunity to name them - because they are cutbacks in expenditure, as we hear, that is, additional cuts in wages and pensions - and with both hands they will be voted on here by the members of the SYRIZA and the ANELs. There's your point, what you'll name it, the communication. These EUR 3.6 billion is the result of your own failure, plus EUR 5.4 billion. In other words, you've gone far beyond the account you put yourself in the summer. Let's go for a double phase on the head of each Greek. You have exceeded the account and within this account, unfortunately, it is also pension-insurance. Because, as we told you very clearly, the 300 million of 2014 with the proportionalitys have reached 3 billion in 2016. These 2.5 billion extra is in this account that you have brought us. So this account is a result of your own governance, it has your own name, it has your own features. So the 3.6 billion that comes - of the IMF you want, of whomever you want, you must give another name - is the Tsipra account, it is the account of your own failure, which will be paid today, voting at night, in a few hours' time. Whatever terrain is being machined, you will not avoid at a difficult time to vote at 5.5 billion today, either on taxation, on pensions or on the contributions you are calling on the world and the productive classes of the country to pay. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] In your second argument, whether or not burden-sharing is fair, you should ask the low pensioners about the CSR you are cutting them off. It is 2.5 billion until 2019. Mr. Madda, your argument that we should not count every year the loss of every worker and every pensioner is unstable. Why, in fact, if the NSA loses in 2016, in 2017, in 2018, in 2019, if family allowances are lost, if they lose their widow's pensions and disability pensions, if the young pensioners lose if the farmers lose, if they lose their contributions, if the national pension from EUR 486 goes to EUR 345, the whole of this mess will not only have it in 2016, we will have it both in 2017 and 2018 and 2019. It's your schedule. This mess, indeed, if you put it is more than 8 billion in pension and insurance until 2019. So this mess, you will submit it and impose it on the Greek people. He has your own name, he has your own vote, he has your own philosophy. It's a failed philosophy, which means distribution of poverty. And in the distribution of poverty, social justice does not exist. You are accountable from now on, as soon as you vote this bill, from tomorrow, to give account and reason to every pensioner, to every Greek worker for this unsuccessful behavior and politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u629	Thank you very much. The speech is made by the Secretary-General and President of the KIC Parliamentary Group, Mr Koutsoubas, for five minutes and with the well-known tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u630	Ladies and gentlemen of the government, once again it turns out that you are very good students of the previous Memorandum Governments, worthy followers of what the place has lived through the parties of the neoliberal management of the New Democracy, as well as the most rotten and corrupt ones the social democracies of PASOK have brought us to the present deadlocks. You decided, on one night, to bring to the plenary the bill - looting - which the working people's movement had described as a cause of war. You have the plenary to have a weekend meeting, just after Easter, without any urgent reason, since, as you have said repeatedly, no one has asked you to vote before tomorrow's Eurogroup. All you are seeking, on the basis of your words, is to put this House here blackmailingly, to avade you in the negotiations with the crows, that is, those that you chose as your partners, as your lenders. Because, as you did, you have nothing left to you, rather than to seek accomplices to the constant crime you commit against the Greek people, by putting him to bleed, suffer, plant, for the great interests, the profits of your few friends, the domestic, European and international ruling class, who do not know what they have. Your pursuit was aimed at avoiding the forty-eight-hour strike that all trade unions had declared in the country, when you would dare to deposit the bill "execution" in the House. Your pursuit was to avoid the justified wrath of farmers, who prepared a mass descent in Athens. For the same reason, moreover, you transferred the official Mayo's celebration on the third day after Easter's celebrations, that is, glued to holiday days, so that big cities are licensed from the world. Your overall attitude recently goes beyond the limits of political misery. Proves that you are not hesitant in the face of anything in order to carry out the task assigned to you by the large capital and your partners, the "Merkel, Olad and Sias" type, to fight everything that is still standing by labour popular rights, of course managing at the same time the popular reactions, so that they can quickly be redundant, in the middle of celebrations, to continue your predetermined course towards the fourth memorandum, the automatic or semi-automatic cut, which you are preparing for the next period, especially after May 24th. This is the promise you have made and the agreement you have made with them. It shows your great fear, which is the organized mass movement, since you did not succeed with the lies, with the callous promises, the various alchemys, and even your well-known turtles, to make the people consent to the anti-insurance and tax-paying reform - poplar. The Greek people, of course, the workers, the unemployed, the self-employed, the farmers, the pensioners, the students, the women of the people's families also gave these days, despite the difficulties of the movement, their answer. Since Thursday, every day throughout Greece, here and outside the House, they protest thousands against your government's policy and the bills prepared for your government's vote tonight. But don't think that ends here. At first we're still here. The Greek people will not tolerate, they will not legalise in their conscience - first of all there - this anti-grass package. It will show its true strength and then you will not know where to hide and those who voted with you the third memorandum or others who move in the same direction, in the same logic of the type of European Union and NATO. And don't delusion that once again you'll make fun of the Greek people. One thief last year in January, two thieves last year in September, then our people say "three and your bad day". And leave the development fairy tales and a new success story Tsipras this time. You've been taken by a lot more than that. On the same day that you announced your intention to bring the law on insurance and taxation this weekend, you also gave for public consultation the new supposed development law, which provides, among other things, new tax exemptions for the big interests, free state funding for capital, subsidies on their wage costs, a subsidy on their business and much more. Highly challenging all this. In fact, at the time you are burying all the people's rights, you are giving no guarantee of hot money, without any guarantee, of aid from the State to networks of business groups and other strong groups - as you call them - business. You lead to the concentration and merger of businesses, by closing smaller and medium-sized enterprises, making them richer, that is, the already rich. For the interests of all of this and only you negotiate and not to save the income, the very lives of the people, the people's family, who are suffering. Ladies and gentlemen, it has not been enough for the government to launch and close all these horrendous anti-grassroots measures, but it has also made other measures, showing what is being prepared further in all areas of social and economic life of the country. I am referring to the unacceptable ministerial decision, which excludes students from all day-to-day schools and leads to the operation of primary schools with thousands of fewer teachers from September. It is hypocrisy to declare that you are building a single type of primary school. Unique is not the school that the courses are defined by what hours they have left behind. It is not a single school that excludes children from the whole day one and a half million unemployed. It is really a single, modern school that has an extended time function, to complete all children at school without exception their educational program, while they will also be able to use their structures in their free time for activities that will be provided free of charge. No child should be excluded, we say, from the entire school. No teacher can spare our schools. It's over and over! To proceed directly with mass, permanent appointments of teachers and specialists. To provide full staff with the necessary staff with the full-time schools, to meet family requests for access to the entire school from September. Ladies and gentlemen, we have said before and will repeat to all tones that social security was and is one of the largest conquests of the workers. Located at the core of the life of the people's family. It ensures the protection, the coverage of workers, the weak, it contains insurance and pension protection, access to health and welfare services, the institution of heavy and unhealthy, protection against occupational risks, rest and childbirth leave. These rights were not granted, but were conquered after hard blood struggles of workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u631	Excuse me, Mr. Comrade. Please, can you be quiet?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u632	I am speaking very loudly, Mr President, so I think there is no problem. Anyone who wants to talk can talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u633	I know, but it's not enough. For God's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u634	All this today is largely dissolving and remains the final blow with today's vote. We are once again asking again today, as we have done several times by this Step and on the occasion of other discussions, the simple question: Who have they been who have welcomed and supported the government's plan for insurance from the very first moment? Of course, all the organisations, associations of large capital and your partners, the crows of the European Union, the European Central Bank. Your law has been implementing a solid request for years, for social security to end and for insurance to be transformed into an individual case. To make monopolistic groups more competitive, for new investment and development laws to come, it is essential that business privileges be deducted, that state money be saved for new subsidies and tax exemptions, like those you have given some time ago with amendments to industrialists, such as those you now give with the new development law. It is also known that parts of the capital, insurance companies, health dealers at the corner, to grab prey from the collapse of the insurance system. Ladies and gentlemen, with the insurance arrangements, thousands of poor farmers are displaced, thousands of professionals, who will not stand and who will be filled by the large capitalist companies. That is why we say and say again that the government completes the dirty work that previous governments have not been able to do. All the propaganda of the government over the past period and within the parliament these days is provoking, it is outrageous. He falsely states that there will be no new reductions in the current pensioners. The pensions are reduced through their new calculation and the reduction of subsidiary allowances and the reductions relate to young and old pensioners, as the personal difference to be paid to old pensioners can be reduced at any time and will be granted at the latest by 2018. It dissolves the subsidiary, reducing the amount taken by a retired person, who does not care if the reduction is in the main or the subsidiary, but in what is finally in his pocket and of course less and less in your law. It drastically reduces the beneficiaries of the CSR with new income criteria and abolishes the allowance in 2019. It breaks down disability pensions and social benefits, leaves to the mercy of luck the thousands of people who, for whatever reason, are incapable of working. The new measures come to stand on the multiple reductions in pensions and rights, the hitting of the thirteenth and thirteenth pensions, the continuous knife in the CSCE and the handicapped ones we had all the previous five years. The government, which has consciously played thousands of pensioners, promising the thirteenth pension, in the most formal and transgressive way through this plan, burys once and for all the right to the thirteenth and fourteenth pensions, since it states explicitly that the amount of the pension is paid every month twelve times a year. In simple terms, the measures of the New Democracy and of PASOK, which the working people fought against, are now coming in the most aggressive way. And all this is supposed to be in the name of equality and protection of the weak. In the filthy propaganda war, which you have also unleashed, we hear through statements by government officials about the cost-benefiting insurance system, the negative proportions of pensioners - workers, the huge pensions, the deficits of the funds, the mismanagement of the funds, the mismanagement of the same language as the previous governments, in order to slaughter insurance rights. The same thing was said yesterday by the Prime Minister in your parliamentary group. As for the specific proposals you have repeatedly asked for insurance, we have recently submitted to you in the Minutes the proposals for a law tabled by the JRC over a year for pensions and insurance. Do you want us to present them again today? We can resubmit them to the Minutes, if they're lost anywhere! As far as the question of where the money is to be found, the answer can only be one: to pay very simply those responsible for the deficits in the funds, that is, the state and power of action. The workers, who are again called upon to pay the marble, have paid double and triple for the insurance with their jobs, their contributions, their unfavourable taxes. At the same time, more than 100 billion are the debts of employment and state to the funds, losses from gambling the reserves on the Stock Exchange, the haircut of the PSI, under the responsibility of the former governments of the New Democracy and the PASOK. And don't cover behind the real huge responsibilities of the New Democracy and PASOK. And with the recent recapitalisation of the banks of SYRIZA - ANEL - on your own government - the funds lost over a billion. There can therefore be no debate on insurance, which will not begin with the return of the reserves that have been closed over the years. There cannot be a debate that will not raise the question of the abolition of black uninsured work and all the flexible labour relations, which your SYRIZA - ANEL has not reached the minimum of sixteen months. So when you ask for proposals for insurance, and at the same time consider the conclusion of the reserves, you consider that, given the commitments made in the memorandum to reduce State funding, you consider the working jungle around us, it is like asking for proposals on how to slaughter workers and pensioners further. Just like that! Such proposals may, of course, be submitted to you by the other parties, but not by the Communist Party of Greece. After all, with them you voted for the memorandum, with them you agree on the main axes of the bill, you walk in their own footsteps, regardless of whether today with New Democracy and PASOK, you are all lifting each other up - false opposition, we say - tons here in this House. Today you are all struggling with the struggles, the forms of struggle chosen by our own workers, our people. Ladies and gentlemen, the insurance bill strikes all the popular layers, craftsmen, liberals, farmers, workers with blocks, scientists, engineers, lawyers, pharmacists, doctors, journalists. It triples the contributions to farmers. It increases contributions to the freelance professionals, scientists. For professionals, linking pension to contributions - which is why income - together with the new way in which pensions are calculated will lead to thousands of professions in significant and large reductions in their pensions, to work with mandarin in hand. It will force thousands of self-employed people to receive about 65% of their income, with reasonable results and book closures and lockdown and unemployment. No worker, a young retired must believe a word of what the government says. This crime was planned. The same measures are being taken in the other countries of the European Union. They have been general guidelines since the early 1990s. No worker should fall into the trap of debt regulation and growth, which are supposed to make up today's difficulties. Barbaric measures are the prerequisite for any debt adjustment. They also came to stay in the phase of any recovery - which is uncertain, of course - on the basis of the course of both the global and the European economy. Ladies and gentlemen, on the part of tax policy the government has exceeded every limit of shame. As much as it bothers you, we will constantly remind you that a year ago the Prime Minister was committed to tax-free at 12 000 euros, to abolish the ENPIA, to reduce VAT from 23%, to combat the smuggling of fuel. We will constantly remind you, in particular to draw conclusions from the Greek people outside this Chamber, that while SYRIZA was in the opposition, he said daily that the abolition of characters is his first priority, that it is incomprehensible that small owners should be turned into tenants in their own homes and that indirect taxes are more unfair, because they are paid equally by all, regardless of their incomes. We are now following SYRIZA's call for confrontation with the New Democracy on what is the least painful way for the people to be slaughtered again. The new increase in tax evacuation or the new reduction in government spending on social policy? Whatever verbal horns Mr Tsipras and Mr Mitsotakis exchanged in the next few hours, they cannot hide their deep agreement on politics that slaughters a people to recover only the profits of capital. The Government proposes and the New Democracy agrees to new tax exemptions for 15 years and to direct subsidies of up to 45% of the cost of investing in groups by the state, which provides for the relevant new draft law. The Government retains the tax immunity of shipowners who pay equal taxes on a few days' fare. And the New Democracy, of course, doesn’t make any sense of it. Of course, this is not a Greek originality. In order to shield the competitiveness of the monopolistic groups, all the governments of the European Union, particularly the friends of Mr Tsipras, namely the French and Italian Social Democrats, are taking all the necessary measures to protect the competitiveness of the monopolistic groups. In France, the Olad government is breaking labour rights, releasing redundancies and working hours with the El Comory Act. In Italy, the Renci government prioritises the support of banks with the ‘Atlas’ rescue fund. At the same time, all governments are calling on the people to put their backs on, to bleed again, to support the national economy, namely the ruling order of capitalists, since these are the words that we now have to use in this House and outside the people in their mass struggles.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u635	Mr President, you are a little short, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u636	Yeah, I'll be done soon. You say that tax measures bring social justice. It is funny and, at the same time, your claim, Prime Minister, is challenging. You have already agreed on a new package of indirect taxation, almost EUR 1.8 billion, according to the Commission. You are actively increasing indirect taxation, following the constant resurgences of the previous six-year period, with the huge increase in VAT at 23%, which you promoted a few months ago. You are self-sufficient if you think that increases will not be easily understood, because you are actually carving out the average four-member family, only from the indirect taxes, at mid-weight, with an additional 700 euros a year. Where, really, are these 700 euros going to be found every year? They will find themselves through the additional impoverishment of the working people's families, which will be forced to cut off further from their various needs, food, gasoline, the use of the Internet, which you are even planning to tax, despite the obsolete words of supporting new technologies. You are planning to further increase fuel tax in order to absorb any reduction resulting from the fall in international prices. Of course, you're cynical enough to claim your own tax is philosophical. You wouldn't be surprised if you were to tell us that the increase in tobacco tax, for example, you have in the programme, helps workers, since they limit healthy smoking! Perhaps even the taxation of Internet TV and pay TV and mobile phones for you is also of a prologue character, will help not to sit on TV, namely, on computer, workers, young people, and so it can have a positive impact on the sociality of the populace! You're capable of everything! Equally reactionary is the new package of direct taxation, which is included in the bill you have put to the vote. You are estimated that from the additional increase in direct taxation you will receive EUR 1.7 billion annually, to be added to 20 billion of direct taxes, of which the capital pays less than 2 million. Who's gonna pay the sad one? The question, of course, is rhetorical again, since new tax exemptions are envisaged for large capital. With the bill and the amendment tabled, the duty-free limit is falling further, reaching EUR 8,636. In other words, you think it should be taxed even by someone who pays little more than basic wages. We are really fed up with your argument that the International Monetary Fund wanted an even greater reduction. It's like comparing whether it's best to drown in four meters of water or three meters of water. The tax changes that you are promoting lead to the vast majority of workers being charged. For the minimum categories for which minimal reductions are provided, you simply take them out of the other pocket, as huge increases in insurance are provided for them. You may want to show the increase in dividend tax and rent as a class victory. You hide that the large volume of capital gains is not recorded as dividends, because they are reinvested. You say you want to tax wealth. Why do you not tax the value of possession of shares, bonds, possession of ships, factories? Why don't you remove the status of share-based anonymity, so we can see who has the real wealth in his hands? Your new tax measures lead to tax increases for the vast majority of people. However, the EUR 1.7 billion does not arise. The question is how the 1.7 billion directly tax will come out. Your lasting answer is to chase the tax evasion. When you say about tax evasion, of course, you mean debt confiscations of the 500, the 1,000, the 2 000 pounds and the 5,000 euros, that is, what is being prepared by the official tax evasion officer of the government, Mr Alexiadis. Your calculations simply outline new tax measures that you will bring in the next period. It is courageous, then, for you to speak of the moral advantage on the Left, to catch, in your mouth, the hundreds of thousands who have been tortured by the state in exiles and prisons before, who have been unresolved by your political bosses today - they are yours too - because they were struggling to stop the exploitation of human beings. [[Protests from the wing of SYRIZA]] You are also an enemy of the workers with your vote today and with what you have done up to today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u637	Of course not!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u638	Your policy breaks the lives of our people for the profits of monopolies. On the one hand, you maintain and strengthen the legitimate tax reliefs of monopolies, and on the other you continue the tax evacuation of the people's layers, which are seen to increase taxes continuously and reduce their incomes. For all these reasons, therefore, and others, which the rapporteurs and speakers of our party have said, we should not say that this draft law on insurance - tax - should not be withdrawn at least in five, which would naturally be the best - be voted against by the Members of this House, at least by those who are not yet fully integrated into the, anyway, corrupt power. We say we can live as we deserve. There are productive possibilities in the country. The working class can really come to power. The central scientific design, the active involvement of the people's workers in the organisation and management of social production of social services, with the release of all lupus alliances, can be exploited. Only then can it end the suffering that accumulates the people of this rotten system, its crises, the European Union and all the governments that manage this anti-grassroots path.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u639	Thank you. I would like to ask, in general terms, that the time should not be exceeded. Either way, Mr. Koutsoubas has been impeccable in a crowd of meetings for months all, alas. Mr. Georgiadis, please speak from his position for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u640	Why this way?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u641	It is not mandatory, but because there is little time. But you will speak as much as Mrs Christophilopoulou then.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u642	I'll try.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u643	No 'you'll try'. You'll make it, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u644	There's a chance I can do this if we don't have a vacation. Good evening, everyone. As I said yesterday, the purpose of my speech in general is to highlight the political dimension. Economics and legal matters have been discussed in both committees and in previous speeches. Mr Katrugalos responded to two specific proposals we have made in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. What did they include? To enter, on the one hand, income criteria for pensions, i.e. if someone already has a high income of more than 3,000 euros from other sources, such as rent, deposit interest, dividends, etc., temporarily suspending his pension so that we can also increase low pensions. The Minister replied that, if he starts to apply income criteria to pensions, then in the ultimate future this could develop to further tighten up these criteria. Minister, that doesn't make sense. If you do not want to impose a reasonable measure, then you should do nothing. Like, for example, if you are currently setting a pension ceiling of EUR 3 000, someone will come and take it down to EUR 2 000. Honestly, we cannot understand where your answer makes sense. Our other proposal was to charge tax and insurance more than those who have been scandalously favoured by the governments of old-fashioned society, namely those who receive great pensions and have double and triple wages compared to those of the private sector and who also receive high ones. We see these in the public sector, the CEC, as well as in former elected representatives. If this were to happen in practice, if we were to make substantial reforms to the mechanism, we could promote social justice. We wouldn't strife the social classes. And you replied that we don't put, he says, rivalry between the private and the public sector, because we just cut off from both sides. But that's not justice. When you cut off from both of them, when one receives more from the other, then you still perpetuate social inequality. And you make it even worse, because you maintain social inequality by making both of them proportionately poorer. We feel really strange when we speak rationally in Parliament. On the other hand, we wonder whether you will constantly download the tax, and at the moment it has reached 8,600 euros. I hope he's locked in there and we don't have another descent. And as Mr Tsakalotos said, if the threshold falls below EUR 9,100, he will resign. We're waiting. Mr. Loverdou's "hello" yesterday was perhaps the best line I heard in here. In all this, you finish both the self-employed and the small and medium-sized businessman and the free trader. There's no tax-free. At a night of 26% you do it 29% and not just that. You are abolishing and regulating the double-payment of insurance contributions if someone has to have a job relationship at the same time. Ladies and gentlemen, there is another idea. You can take all professionals and individuals and lock them in a basement, put chains on them, give them access only to e-banking, to pay you taxes and contributions, to finish. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A few more seconds, Mr President, and I shall conclude. The more you consider your enemy the one who works and produces, the more we see you as our enemies for our country. The more you want to go through social inequality, the ideal of neo-planning, which holds meetings in five-star hotels, the more we insist on defending the friendly patriot and productive worker both in the private and in the public sector. You, with your old-fashionedism and us with the expectation of the new creative age that we will seek to blossom. We have voted against this bill and we will also be placed on the articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u645	Thank you very much. Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor. Please keep in mind, like the previous speaker, the time. Then Mr. Leventis will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u646	Ladies and gentlemen, after this day the tiring day, I think I would like to start with something that possibly unites us all, and that is no more than the mother, who is celebrating today. And instead of another wish, it would be nice to remember the mothers of children who have been unfairly lost from violence and from criminal acts, and especially my mind goes to the mother of Paul Physsa, but also to the mothers of the Marfin children and to all the other mothers who have lost children from violence, terrorism, crime. [[Appropriations for the EAGGF ……]] All the mothers who lost their children in all kinds of violence, Mrs. Collia. Otherwise, it's a very heavy day. It's a heavy day, because, Minister, Prime Minister, it's a heavy bill. The fourth memorandum and this bill are very heavy. EUR 2.2 billion in the insurance account on the back of the Greek people and with the last amendment the tax bill is 1.9 billion. Is Mr. Chakalotos really here? Why normally, Prime Minister, did he tell us in April, not the Genoa who came to us here and told us "the 12,000-euro tax is due to be paid to Genoa", but in April Mr Tsakalotos said that "if the tax falls below 9,000, I will resign". He's not here. I don't know if the troika has caught him, the institutions or who caught him, but he's not here right now, and I don't know what he's going to tell us about what he was saying in April. So the bill is very heavy and it bears your signature, Prime Minister, and Mr Kammenos's signature. It's the fourth memorial. It is because we have said it and analysed it, the great losers are, first of all, the productive, the strong classes, the middle class, but also the scientists, traders, craftsmen, farmers. The increase in contributions has no precedent. It has no precedent and what you are doing is slowly driving society into a "muddlering", all down from the full-day school to the rewardability of contributions - benefits to social security, all downwards, to the anti-constitutional of health contributions, whatever you pay, either grand or hundred, the same bed you will have. All this leads society to a level playing field, suppresses every concept of entrepreneurship, dynamism, productivity. Let's just remember that a dealer who makes $30,000 a year - rich, you'll tell me, middle-class - while he pays $4,400 a contribution, you make him pay 8,000 at one. This man doesn't even have the discounts you gave the engineers and lawyers. Not that you made a present! They're fighting too. You gave them four years, however, a breath, which you deprive of from merchants and crafters. We made an amendment to you. I didn't hear you accept it, Mr. Catrugale. For the OGA, you plead, Minister of Labour,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u647	Quiet, please, the speaker must be heard. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u648	...that OGA will remain autonomous, you have declared, Minister. The Prime Minister is leaving! Sure. How can he sit? He told the farmers himself. How can he not leave? Mr. Tsipras told the farmers "the OGA will remain autonomous" and he will leave now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u649	She's scared of you, she's shaking you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u650	I don't care what he's doing, but he's leaving. Well, small cafes - and that is in our amendment, Minister, last minute think about it - are being condemned. Put them with OGA on the same fate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u651	Article 40(3). It expressly provides for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u652	Yes, Article 40(3) is a great genocide, as is the lies you're talking about! That's it! It's a genocide all over this bill! Don't give up on that. [[Noise in the Chamber]] They bother you, I know. I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u653	You're welcome. The explanations have been given.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u654	I'm going on, Mr. President. I'll get over time, I can't. But it can't be. [[Noise in the Chamber]] You want to hear the good interests and interests. But you can't do it. For pensioners, as a result, pensions are not affected, we are cutting off - EUR 2.2 billion from insurance and we are not cutting off a pension. What do you think, good? Where should I start and where should I finish? From the C.E.S.E.L.D.? I mean, a man who takes 7,800 euros...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u655	You have a minute extra, Mrs. Christophilopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u656	Please keep my time. A pensioner who takes seven thousand a year, that is, a six hundred pensioner, cut his ESS. Why are you doing this? The one-time pensioners of the CSAY? You're kicking 'em! The bank employees, the money they themselves have contributed. This insurance is a blade in the neck of society, of every pensioner, of every insured person. They all lose out of it. In the end, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you will not find us any accomplices or supporters. We will not only vote against, but we will fight for a sustainable insurance policy. Because if all you have done ensured the sustainability of insurance for the next generations, at least we would say carpet, but this insurance is not just a carnival for half - and more - the pensioners' class, but also for the productive bodies. It is a carnilla for society, for the economy, for the prospect of this country and we are voting against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u657	Thank you. The President, Mr. Leventis, has the floor for 15 minutes. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please don't talk underneath. Quiet! I will not allow any questioning or anything and any interruption to the President. Okay? Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u658	Good evening, Mr President of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. And, Prime Minister, thank you for being here. You obviously heard my previous request that, on the ten speeches I have made, you have only attended twice and you want three. Thank you. It's progress. It's Mother's celebration today. The mothers of all of Greece wish to live in health and preparation, to see their families and children as they wish each. Of course, I hope that we will not trouble mothers as long as we have troubled them as a state, because mother deserves better treatment. The insurance problem is a problem solved by finding new resources or by developing them. In other words, we will find some new resources to introduce or develop - investment - and revenue will be generated for the state. And from there, we can support the insurance system. There are also states, of course, such as America, which have an insurance system completely private, and at some point, we will necessarily think of this as a viewpoint, given that government care in this place is constantly falling and weakening. So, fatally, while we have connected the insurance to our country as legally guaranteed, we will at some point also see it in private hands, initially percentage in the future and by majority vote. That's where we're headed. Don't get any delusional. So finding new resources would be important for insurance. What these bills do here, Mr. Katrugalu, is management. He's getting out of here, he's cutting out of there. He's cutting by 1.8 billion, he's trying. In fact, Mr. Katrugalos also has a tactical ability, since he manages with less money to give the same pensions. Mr Flamouraris, of course, was more honest on a channel and said 'adjudicates are 20% cut, 30%'. Karugalos never said so. Flamouraris was more honest because he is an engineer in the profession and the engineers - you know - we can't be as liar as lawyers are - you will allow me to say. So the question is growth and not eating our flesh, taking from one. Mr Katrugalos' view is that he carries - he says - the burdens on the upper income classes. I'd rather convince those classes to invest. Then the system would work. So to tax him from a deceased, obese state that doesn't pay off, which doesn't work, you don't work. If we convinced the rich, the most prosperous Greeks to invest, that would be part of what we call growth. But, so far, we're not convinced, but instead I can see them making their money out of what they've got, I can see them disappearing. The solution to when the crisis will be solved is when we see that the deposits are returned. Have you seen the testimonies return? I see the opposite. The next time I was in some area of Greece - in Patras or Argos - with the President of the Republic and took me away from a couple of fifty people and asked me if there would be a haircut because - he says - there was a mess on the internet about whether there would be a haircut, why are we going to Grexit. I mean, the opposite is spreading, not bringing statements, but getting up to get them. And they'd take it if there weren't any Capital Controls. If the Prime Minister wants, let him do a test and let the deposits be taken free of charge for one day, to see how many will stay, to see how much confidence he has achieved in the economy. Is that right? That's where we'll see. When Mr Katrugalos came to the Central Union office to bring us the bill, we told him about development, that this is the solution, that is, new revenue, investments and to convince the rich foreigners and Greeks to come to invest because that is the solution to the Greek problem. But I told him that after making a draft law, purely management, there are some solutions, such as cutting the pensions of the rich. In other words, I consider it rich to me one who has revenue from rent, deposit interest, dividends and so on, over 3,000 euros a month. To cut off the wealthy pensions. To cut off the pensions of the former MPs. [[Noise in the Chamber]] I want peace, please, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u659	They're exemplary.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u660	You will have noticed in this Chamber that we have never interrupted from the headquarters of the Union of Centres. I demand the same respect. I say this because yesterday there was an incident in the presence of the President of Parliament. So, how's it going on at the Centro Association's headquarters to be silent and you all make noise? It is not respectful, first of all, to the President that you elected him and forced him to bring you back to order. This is not your honor. I tell everyone. I was talking about the pensions of the rich, the pensions of the former Members and the many pensions. Mr. Katrugalos leaves the maximum pension when young people work on burdensome terms in a supermarket and take 400 euros. Does it go to some Greeks to get a pension of 3,000 euros and work for the young man who has children and family who is thirty-five years old for 400 euros? You're gonna tell me it's a solution to get their pensions? It is a sense of justice, because these pensions have come out of charismatic amendments that the House of the last fifty years voted, 'beyond another charismatic one, it is a little more charismatic', so we have reached an unequal, unfair and monstrous insurance system. So we're talking about justice. Since there is no growth, the country is falling apart, there is no insurance, nothing is there. But if you do an operation, in what direction do you have to do it? Do it in the direction of justice, in the direction of mutilation of pathogens. I find three hundred and thirty thousand pensioners with three main pensions, not subsidiary, but, above all, about one million double-retired and nine hundred former Members for whom I do not understand. We cut the pensions from 2012 and then until 2012 we didn't cut them. What's that? Was Christ born in 2012 and after Christ was rendered righteousness, while before Christ was society sinful? I don't understand that. Mr Katrugalos told the Member of the Union of Centres Mario Georgiadis that we cannot - say - cut pensions from all former MPs, because some were unclaimed. Do you hear them? They were unblemished! Hey, give them an OGA pension. Why don't you give them? OGA Constitution, Mr. Catrugale! Why are you laughing? Why does the other guy live with OGA? How does the other one live at 300 euros, Mr. Catrugale? Is that to laugh? How does the poor man who eats on metropolitans live, and the congressman cannot? What's the congressman? Sabbath? You're bringing in a unilateral deal. It's a one-sided deal. Is the House aware of this? Nor does the 'cava' contain or has been agreed with the technical steps. It's a one-sided deal you're bringing! And you're going tomorrow and you're going to say what? That the House met and voted for this agreement. And in the corridors that I discussed with SYRIZA MPs and I asked why you did not expect the agreement to be made and to take it well, as you should, I was told that Junker had agreed. You know, you put on Juncker one more word, which he detested. Yunker, you've put one more word into it that's been disproved! Look out! Go with the good news, and I wish Yunker would do what you say, fight, convince them all in favour of Greece and say "Vave Tsipras, let him not have the "cava", let him have nothing, so be the situation, help Greece", as Mr Tsipras hopes, given that England has a problem. And I hear some SYRIZA Members scripts on the channels that because of England and because they don't want much trouble together, they will do us a favor. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the problem in Greece since 2009 has been that we have had no reform. Neither professions have we opened up nor a system of tax evasion, nor have we been privatising. Your MPs are deaf when they talk about privatisation. They're getting confused! They're tired, they're blackmailing it. This country wants a European government that does what it does, does it well and why it believes it, to keep Greece in the euro. With antiquated ministers acting under the regime of violence, the country is marching to Grexit, Mr. Tsipras. And bear full responsibility. There's no privatization. They become a feast, slowly, and so on. We must convince out that we are determined to save the country and keep it in the euro. Fatigue has begun in Brussels on Greece's attitude. You should know that. They just want to throw us out of here with the kicks. And don't think it's funny, because from Brussels I don't think you know what I know, sir...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u661	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u662	If you know so much, it'll look tomorrow. It'll show tomorrow what you know! He'll come tomorrow too! There's tomorrow too! [[Applause from the centre of the Union of Centres]] I repeat that Juncker has put one more word he didn't say. Or did you forget? All right! The agreement with me is unilateral and disgraces the country, because after you have been negotiating, the negotiations must be concluded and the Eurogroup, the summit and everything else. I think so! Now it is a one-sided one, and while there were terrible differences. There are quite a lot of differences in many things. That's quite a difference. That's what I'm hearing. Then what are you gonna do? Will you bring in another law, supplemented here? And will your MPs vote? What resistance does the Group of the European People's Party have? Assuming she's loyal today. If today the hundred and fifty three give a vote, do you know why they will give it, Mr. Tsipras? Because they don't want to be named traitors of their prostitutes. But you should know that then, we may have "Sachelaria". Do you know what "Sachelaria" will say? It means that while they voted, they leave after. If the hundred and fifty-three vote today doesn't mean you have them in the pocket. Because they're personal. They are not pawns, especially if they see what they voted for. Because I'm sure 99% doesn't know what she's going to vote on today. I'm sure of that. I'm not talking about it. Judging by the amendments, judging by the tumor... [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Okay, you know it very well. Remember what Chrysohoid once said! Remember what he once said!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u663	If you don't do what you say, then what are you going to do next?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u664	You guys are very well informed. Sit down all night and read! Yeah, I know! If one of you gets one by one and asks you about the bill, damn me if you have any idea. Anyway. I am afraid of something else and I want to say it before the Greek Prime Minister, because the Greek Prime Minister is the Greek Prime Minister, and once he told me in a living room Rallis: "Whatever the Prime Minister is, he is the Prime Minister, and we must help him, even if we disagree with him, because he is the Prime Minister, but we must respect him. And I believe that no Prime Minister is a traitor, no Prime Minister is a broker." That was George Rullie's conversation. While you have said many other traitors. You don't have that Rullie's morality. And Rallis was right, nothing to do with the Centro Association, but he said a level conversation. You as a party have said many traitors in the past, and you have not apologized, but anyway. Well, I'm afraid what's going on?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u665	You said they'd get cancer!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u666	I'm doing what I don't hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u667	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u668	With the failure of the policy of the last six years, there has been a feeling in the world that Europe hates us. When I talk to people, it says: 'Why does Europe want to put both of us on a shoe?' [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the President is ringing.]] Every man can't know that Greece did not do reforms and that Greece bears full responsibility and believes that the bad strangers, the German scoundrels, came to us to take the mineral wealth away from us. Because such broadcasts can also be performed on TVs that strangers are here to get us the mineral wealth. And that's what citizens like. It is not Greece, it is not the political system of the last fifty years, it is not the fault of anything, it is the foreigners who are to blame for everything. In other words, foreigners woke up one day and hated Greece and said, "Let's go destroy it." That's kind of a picture. And this failure exists because the Government of New Democracy and Venizelos did not make any reform, and George Papandreou, who did absolutely no reform, and you ate him this year and a half without any reform at all. So I believe that the truth of the Greek problem is that we don't want to make reforms, do the beans, we think we're gonna make fun of the strangers too, if we're gonna get the dose, and we're going through... [[At this point, the closing bell of the President's speaking time is being ringed.]] Please, not all the time, because the other guy can't talk. I don't read manuscripts, don't have caramoses. Mr. Kutsuba, you left him some time I saw, unless he's your friend.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u669	A friend is definitely a friend, but that doesn't play any part.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u670	Okay, you're first cousins, but did you see what he said about SYRIZA? Did you see what he said? That you've done everything...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u671	I heard it all and I'm thinking about it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u672	You left him thirty-three minutes, Mr. Koutsoubas, and I demand a levelling-up in here, no more measures, no more weightings for each other and more for the other, Mr. Voutsi. I also voted for you when you came to the president. They didn't vote for you! [[Laughers and noises in the Chamber]] When you were elected President - it does not hear - in violation of the will of my Members, I have forced them to vote on Mr Voutsi. That's the thank you. I heard the PASOK, Mrs. Genemas, I was at my house at the time, accusing SYRIZA of cutting here, cutting out there. She forgets that before Tsipras 50% of the pensions had been cut by New Democracy and PASOK. So she did as if she hadn't cut off a single euro and blamed others for not taking care of the widow, they don't look after the orphan. She felt sorry for them all, and she blamed SYRIZA. I couldn't stand it, and I said what's going on here? 50% of pensions. At 2,800 it was the pension of the CIMME and became 1,400 in forty years before Tsipras arrived. But now if he wants to cut another 400 euros, too. That's his case. But even if a party goes out to blame, PASOK on the fact that they cut pensions and wages, a party that participated in governments that cut 50% of pay and pensions, I can't take it. It's hypocrisy! As I discussed with Mrs Kundura in Patras and said: When you were in New Democracy and New Democracy was receiving loans, did you not know that? He says, "I didn't know, I entered in 2004. “ Is it possible? ” I say, "Did you get in 2004 and when did you leave? Your President did not know that." He says to me, "I don't know what my President is doing." Mrs Giannakou-Koutsikou (PPE). — (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, Mrs Giannakou-Koutsikou, on her excellent report. He said: 'Look, we're afraid of nothing'. But who got the loans? PASOK took them. So, what the people hear, you don't understand? Do you think they're listening to crabs? There's nothing afraid of PASOK from the loans. But the PASOK and the New Democracy have taken the loans. At least, Mr Mitsotakis, in his honor, asked for an apology and said: 'We will make an effort to pay them'. It's in honor of him. Something's gonna cut, I don't know, it could take two thousand years to get it done, but in any case, the man will try.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u673	All right, can you, Mr. President, hang up?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u674	Listen to something. The President of the Republic - I will say this before the Prime Minister - told Argos that he would follow the example of Kapodistrias.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u675	Mr President, we are paying for the loans. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u676	You'll talk later. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u677	This debate has been held here, and it is exhausted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u678	It's done, it's over. They will be checked, but yours are the loans. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u679	This debate has been exhausted. Please, Mr President, close.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u680	Well, the President of the Republic gave a speech to the Argos and gave a verbal answer - why he did not read a text - the issue of the coin. And the New Democracy used it as an argument that we're going for a drachma. Too bad, because I was ahead, Mr. Mitsotakis. I assure you Mr Pavlopoulou didn't mean we were going for a drachma. He just wanted to replace the moral values of man with the materialities of money. This was what he wanted and misused the word 'confidential' incorrectly. I was present and I'm able to judge what everyone says. But he said something very serious afterward that the Fourth National Assembly on Kapodistria made ten resolutions, of which the ninth - he named it - was what gave the sponsorship to the Governor. A sponsorship he never received. She never got it! And the President of the Republic said: 'I will do the same in this line.' I expect the President to do so. I told the MP Maniatis and the MP Argus of SYRIZA at once - I don't know him, he's there, he's there, he's lifted his finger. I said it right away. I'm saying, what's that talk? Now he has to cut off his wages. We call on the Centro Association to cut half its salary, 50%. He was willing to cut him off. But he must be cut, because he is the President of the Republic and his conversation counts. And in the past the institution was abused. I'm asking technocrats and some people are misunderstanding it. They say, why techcrats? I spoke to a channel today and they say to me: 'Is the technocrat government not a donor? He is a donor". Am I saying? What will a donor say? I don't get it. So, Mr. Tsipras now, who's elected, and has Muzala, who's not elected, is Muzalas a donor? I do not understand the word 'daughter' when it enjoys a government of the confidence of the House. To become a government of a universal nature, what should be done? To bring together the parties that will support it, to co-decide on a minimum program and to invite a technocrat to form a government. That's what has to be done. When the House gives a vote of confidence to this government, will it be a donor? Does the Constitution describe this anywhere, or is it the construction of some silly journalists? I think the Prime Minister who has the confidence of the House is not a donor, is normal. As long as the parties let him do his job. Why the parties say: 'No, do not do this, because it cuts votes from the New Democracy. No, don't do that etc.’ Mr. Mitsotakis has rushed to ask for elections. You should ask, Mr. Mitsotakis. It's your right. But you should know something: whoever asks for elections, to be also responsible, must produce a centimetre project to be centred, that is, the plan that as Prime Minister, the implementation plan. If he's just asking for elections, blaming the previous government, that president is a demagog. The New Democracy is entitled to raise an election issue. However, it must first be absolutely specific on all matters, with what plan it will make any reforms. Because I'm afraid...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u681	Mr. President, come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u682	I shall finish, Mr President. I'm afraid, like Mr. Tsipras, you're going with the same system to curse him. While the country needs consensus, seriousness. We have to put them down and fix the country. You know what I think? I don't know how long Tsipras will stay. It can stay a little longer. I don't know if you guys will come. But then, because the country will still be unresolved, only the government of all the parties will give the solution. Remember that. We'll write the tape. Maybe Tsipras can get us another month. You might come by for a few months to get to the right - because that's where it's going. In the end, however, the solution to the Greek problem, Mr Mitsotakis, will be what I have been calling for for months now, a government of technocrats, in a universal nature. As long as we let her do what she can. Why, politicians over the last fifty years have only been rosés and scandals I see they've been doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u683	Thank you. The reason is the special speaker of the KKE, Mr. Katsotis, for four minutes, and then the Chief of the Party of Police Vice-Population, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u684	Thank you, Mr President. The sacrifices of our people to save capital have no end. Reductions in wages and pensions have not yet reached the point where business groups want, as they have defined as a 'friendly environment', to invest their capital for quick and sure gain. SYRIZA, who came as an antimony, denounced the austerity, promising a return to the minimum wage - here you are, Mr Skourletis - of collective labour contracts, abolishing the labour jungle, reinstatement of pensions, the thirteenth and more, proved to be the best manager of the needs of capital, maintaining all anti-territorial laws made by the former and continuing to overturn, such as this today, which is the most profound and most important of the capital. It maintains the Ministerial Council Act to reduce the minimum wage from EUR 751 to EUR 586 and EUR 511 for young people. It went on last summer to link the minimum pension to this reduced wage of the unskilled worker, taking the minimum pension from EUR 486 to EUR 396. And now, with the new architecture of the bill, which has been applauded by BSE and SETE, it is completely disconnecting pensions from the lower wage and this decision is not at all, but at all by accident. What is she establishing today? It breaks pension into national and payroll. What does this division mean? It means, in addition to reducing state funding, which is a requirement of capital, a great reduction in the minimum pension, which may be 30% -35%. This takes as a basis for judging what the bill is coming to solve. As I said yesterday, until now, the minimum pension, Prime Minister, which you said ensured decent living, was EUR 486 plus the CSCE. Now, you - you said the day before yesterday to your parliamentary group that you are safeguarding the weak - you are doing it 345 euros, plus 69 euros the reward, i.e. EUR 414 euros without a CSCE. So what's that? What is the decent living, Prime Minister? You can answer us later. That is, from the EUR 630 that the retired person could have so far, he has less than EUR 230 and he goes to EUR 414. And you call this a decent living, support for the weak? So you have to tell us here. This regulation goes through all the articles and is even worse by the way pensions are calculated - according to normal mathematics rather than symposia - where pension pay is reduced by more than 25%. This reduced pension pay, with the reduced rate of replacement up to 50%, leads to pensions of 30% to 35% below those of workers so far. For the fictitious years of those recognizing, large amounts must now be paid from 6.7% to 20%. With your alchemys you cannot hide from retired people the reality. They'll see it, they'll live it, and it'll be painful. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The same will live this painful reality and all the other groups, such as disability, widows, deaths, reduced pensions, even worse. I know the farmers, the self-employed, the freelance professionals, the uniforms, who, apart from the reductions, have to pay great increases. They will lead to great dead ends, closures of operations, abandonment of the land. The insurance expectations of all for pensions, for the one-off, are overturned, radically changed, drastically reduced, especially the subsidiary with the zero-staff clause of sustainability, as you have called it. This bill, yes, has a class mark. That is why workers, farmers, self-employed, young people and young people, women of the population these days are strikers, protesters and send you a clear message that they will not accept this draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u685	Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u686	You will pay politically this hostile energy against the people. In the worker's consciousness this bill will remain the most reactionary, the most anti-grassroot and the struggle will be intensified for its overthrow and overthrow in general this path of development of capitalist barbarism.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u687	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u688	In a new form of organization of the economy, which will not have individual ownership, but social, labour power with a central design tool will be permanently faced, in addition to all others and the socio-security system, as has happened in the young Soviet Union since 1920, when labour productivity has not been at the present level, with free health, care for all, with a pension of sixty for men and fifty for women. This is because socialism has the centre of man and his real needs, while capitalism has the profits that pass above the life of our own people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u689	Thank you. Mr Mitsotakis, Head of New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u690	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group yesterday Mr Tsipras, speaking to the Members, said to him: 'In this country, it is now a historic need to speak the language of the truth'. Be careful, the time-consuming ‘now’. Those who listened to him were speechless, for it is at least a stirring liar to say that we now need to speak the language of the truth. You never spoke the language of the truth, Mr. Tsipras. You don't know her and you can't stand her. You didn't talk to her when you said you'd abolish the memos with an article and a law. You didn't talk to her when you fed the thirteenth pension. You didn't talk to her when you promised a tax free to 12 thousand euros. You didn't talk to her when you were cheating on young people with false hopes. And you didn't even talk about it the other day, when you presented your own virtual reality about the Greek economy. No one believes anymore that you will start talking to her, because no one believes you anymore, neither in Greece nor abroad. Mark Twain, a great American writer, said this interesting phrase: "There are lies, great lies and statistics." The great American writer didn't have the honor of meeting you. Otherwise, he would say: 'There are lies, great lies and Mr Tsipras'. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] If something is very expensive today, ladies and gentlemen, it is your personal unreliability. Unreliability clause is the additional package of 3.6 billion euros, which is pressurized by our lenders, your personal unreliability clause, the unreliability clause of all your government. That's why you need to leave as soon as possible, to get Greece out of the unnecessary measures that we're all on your behalf. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras has so far exceeded every limit of lies and untrustworthyness, which he can now bring to Parliament anything. He has no hesitation, no barricade, only to be held in power. And I really wonder who Mr. Tsipras might look again at, who can speak again from all those who had believed the fiery antimony speeches, the promises that have proved, unfortunately, all words of air, false words, that have brought so much suffering to the Greek people. The last refuge of democracy is not the laws, it is not the parliament, it is the shame. And when there is no sense of shame, then, unfortunately, the decline is bragging. Unfortunately, the lack of ignorance and contraction does not only characterise you, Mr. Tsipras, as well as your close colleagues. The Minister of Labour, who recommends this bill, suggests provisions against which he had recourseed to the Council of State, when he was a great lawyer. You know, this is not called a class apostasy. Political amoralism of the unscrupulous species is called. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It is called a political hypocrisy of people without ideology, without I believe they will do anything to keep the chair. That's what it's called. The Minister of Finance, of course, in his letter to colleagues of the Eurogroup Finance Minister, writes in words: "Greek citizens..." - Listen to this, it is interesting - "...they must have the ownership of the programme". Note the word 'ownership'. If I'm not mistaken, does Mr. Chakalotos not belong to the fifty-three signing texts and declarations against the programme itself? At least half the government - at least three quarters should be said - opposes the programme itself. Mr. Spirtzis, Mr. Dritsas, Mr. Skourletis, who will be the most memorialist and you have the courage to come here, in this Chamber, you and talk about the ownership of the program to Greek citizens? You are talking about a program that your ministers daily demonize, falsify and deceive. But be careful. Mr. Chakalotos writes something else very interesting in this letter. It makes another important assumption. He says, "Another Greek crisis will lead to another..." - notice the phrase - "...a failed state..." - failed state in English - "...in the region". I am sorry, Mr Tsipras, but this, unfortunately, is already happening. Greece is deceived every day that passes with your impotence, with your inability, with your lies, with your ideas. And every day that you remain in power, Greece, unfortunately, is failed into a family state, because you are sawing the institutions, eroding democracy and smashing politics. Arkas, whom you know I love very much, in another nice cartoon of his...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u691	Say something of your own.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u692	It's bothering you. But listen to it. It's interesting. He defines the leader in a nice way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u693	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u694	He writes, skitters rather, Arcas says: "It is a leader who can prevent a catastrophe that would not come if he did not rule." You can't even prevent the catastrophe you're causing yourself. So you have to leave an hour before and soon. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I warned you that you would be the newest former Prime Minister Greece had since post-Civilisation. I add to this that you will be the most detested, the one who will have been identified as anyone else with cynicism, lies, authoritarianism and political deception. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today unfortunately has nothing to do with what the country really needs to get out of the crisis. What Greece needs today is a reduction in taxation, a targeted reduction in government expenditure, a fair distribution of burdens and a stable macroeconomic environment. These are the minimum necessary but not necessarily suitable conditions to get the country out of the crisis, to attract investment, to reduce unemployment and finally to lead to economic growth. On the contrary, what is the bill that you are bringing to the House today? It increases taxes and contributions, leading with mathematical certainty to increased tax evasion and tax evasion. And the measures which you are introducing today, unfortunately, are the gravestone of every development perspective of the Greek economy. At the same time, with the mystical idea of you, the insurance policy, which you are proposing, does not even guarantee the viability of the system, does not even guarantee social justice for which you are being cut and, in any case, do not promote the solidarity of the generations, for which you are supposed to be interested. The insurance system, your proposal, has five features. I told you in my first speech in the House and I repeat it again: It leads to a war of generations, opens forwards with productive Greece, brutally distorts the incentives for work, unfortunately turns the insurance system into prosperous and, of course, slows down the final solution to the problem. All of this, while it reduces the national pension for all. Of the EUR 384 a month for fifteen years, which was your original proposal, we go to 346 euros a month. And of course it also reduces existing pensions primarily for the weaker. There has been a great debate on disability pensions, which are being slaughtered. I hope at least at the last minute that you accept some of the New Democracy's proposals for this extremely vulnerable social group. The ESS is gradually abolished and - look out! - without being replaced, as we had planned, with the instrument of minimum guaranteed income. You've forgotten that, you've referred to the bells. Temporary pensions are also reduced to 50% and, of course, the dividend of the Treasury of Public Officials is cut by about 35%. This piece of legislation is unfortunately the epitome of your inability. It took you about nine months to come up with a bare measure, which only does not constitute reform. I am urging, for example, nine negative effects of your bill, which our rapporteurs have also highlighted, but I think I must repeat them as well: Firstly, your bill drastically reduces pensions for those who are going to retire from now on. But that's not the only bad thing. The replacement rates, which you are unfortunately proposing, act as a stimulus for the lengthening of insurance. And existing main pensions - pay attention to this - are only effectively protected until 2018 with the trik of the temporary dispute. Then you don't care at all what happens, obviously because you know that you won't be in the government. Secondly, the bill eliminates freelance professionals. They are the people who are protesting today against thousands of outside the House. Take as an example an engineer with the minimum implied income of about 7,000 euros a year. Contributions and taxes will exceed 80% of his income. That's not an economic policy, it's not a contributory policy, it's called an economic murder. And unfortunately you are murdering the prospect of young people, young scientists, who are struggling today to find jobs in that country. Thirdly - and I know that is particularly disturbing to you - you are mocking farmers. If I remember correctly, Mr Tsipras, you had met with them in February in Maximos and almost promised them that you would meet all their requests. Now, of course, you are abolishing the OGA and with a last-minute amendment - you have not dared to incorporate it into the main body of the bill - you are, of course, taxing basic aid, as well as related and green aid, in total contrast with what you have just said a few days ago. Fourthly, the bill reduces the actual earnings of all employees.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u695	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u696	Everyone loses 0.5% since June 1st. At the same time, wage costs increase. And we know very well what is going on in this country, when wage costs increase: new redundancies, uninsured and undeclared work. Five, the bill cuts the tax free. For a large majority of taxpayers, duty-free is reduced by EUR 909 and for couples with two children it is reduced by EUR 454. But one thing is certain, Mr. Tsipras, that cup is not a feature of your government. I would like to remind you of what the Minister of Finance said at a press conference he gave - not last year, three weeks ago - on Tuesday, April 12th. So he said, "I am not prepared to present to the Greek Parliament a bill that has a tax-free less than what you will see in the bill." So there are red lines. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Here, the red lines were erased with a "x" to come the new tax-free. And Mr Tsakalotos - as far as I know, I imagine he is on his way to the Eurogroup - is still in his place and did not have the gum to resign because he violated the red line he set himself. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Sixth, your bill is effectively mocking low-paid people and, of course, eliminates consistent taxpayers. You are fighting a great deal to save tax, but you know very well that indirect taxes will increase, VAT, the basic rate, from 23% to 24%, and I do not know what other indirect taxes you will bring. And be careful, do not make the mistake and say that here we are voting for EUR 5.4 billion, because the package of indirect taxes has not yet come. This will come, you will come again to vote for both indirect taxes and the Privatisation Fund, which, with so much rabies, you have fought and, of course, the red loans regulation. So the indirect taxes will come and you know very well that what one earns from duty is ultimately losing from an increase in indirect taxes, because they are primarily burdening consumption and burdening low incomes. Seventhly - a point that has not been sufficiently raised - you are charging citizens with the contribution of solidarity as a permanent tax anymore. Because the solidarity levy - do not be fooled - why do you have it separately, since you actually integrate it on the tax scale? We - to remind you, Mr Tsipras - had reduced the solidarity levy by 30% and made a commitment to abolish it at the end of 2016. You make it permanent! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Eighth, you increase taxation by 12% in small and medium-sized enterprises, from 26% to 29%. Remove the 26% rate. Increase taxation in conditions of suffocation and enormous difficulty in finding liquidity. And you expect this policy to take the economy forward! And ninth, you're increasing the tax on dividends. You know, perhaps one of the ministers who has actually been engaged in productive activity - if that is the case - should tell you that raising the tax on dividends gives an incentive to losses rather than profits. And increasing dividend tax in itself is a great incentive for tax migration and a lever to prevent capital from being repatriated internally. Ladies and gentlemen, is the government doing all this to achieve exactly what? Is this the last intervention in the social security system, in order to make it sustainable? Perhaps, so that other pension cuts will not be needed again in the future? Unfortunately, the exact opposite is true. From the bill itself and from this allegedly proportionate study you have presented, it is quite certain that the sacrifices of the citizens will be unconscious and very soon - possibly next year - undergo new bleeding. We hear a lot of criticism today from your rapporteurs, and I imagine that you will repeat it again - but, well, we - in other words - 'within 16 months we have destroyed insurance'? Do you not have responsibilities that you have ruled for so many years?" In the first place, the New Democracy with its own interventions, especially in the early 1990s, gave many years of life to the insurance system. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Secondly, we and I personally, in my first speech as Chief of Officerial Response, made our own self-criticism, because in the past, and we were not as bold as we should have been, and possibly undermined the pressure of political costs. Thirdly, and more importantly, the measures that we are voting on today are the costs, the account of your own delay, your inability and your own idealism. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I would remind you - and you insist on forgetting this - that at the end of 2014, shortly before you came to power, after great sacrifices by Greek citizens, there was no need to reduce the main pensions, nor had this issue ever been raised by the troika. There was no request for a budget for the insurance, except for the zero deficit clause on supplementary pensions. We had even succeeded and had drawn up the first and only credible analogue study, which was carried out under the auspices of ECOFIN - I will not repeat it again, I have already tabled it in the Minutes - which confirms that under the circumstances the insurance system was fulfilling the sustainability conditions by 2060. That's the truth, Mr. Tsipras. We were there a year and a half ago, and then you came. And so while no main pension cuts were necessary by November 2014, it has unfortunately become necessary because public finances were very simply derailed. And I ask you directly to talk a little bit and with real facts: based on your own information, with these very drastic pension interventions, what do you save from the social security institutions' deficit by 2018? Approximately 800 million. Yes, sir. Do you know how much you lose from insurance contributions you will not only receive from the reverse that you put the economy in 2015 - 2016? Have you ever wondered how many jobs could be created, have they not been created because you have put the economy in recession, staying ideologically stuck to policies that failed in all parts of the world? Let me tell you this, then, in 2015 and 2016, there could have been two hundred thousand jobs created if the economy had not entered the recession spiral.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u697	"I'll"!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u698	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u699	I understand. It's all very unpleasant for you. Unfortunately, however, it is even more unpleasant for the Greek society, which sees unemployment growing and which does not understand the convenience with which you are caring. So how many additional contributions would be, Mr Tsipras, of these two hundred thousand jobs? It would be 900 million. And here's the paradox. What you hope to receive from the interventions you are currently legislating on, you are losing them from the contributions that you will not collect because you have led the economy into recession. To conclude, at last, this corn with the'real data', to finally speak clearly, with data, not with my own information, Mr Tsipras, with the forecasts of the European Commission, which you so much love, and the forecasts that you have been so inclined to adopt. In 2015 and 2016, therefore, a cumulative amount of EUR 21 billion is being depleted from the country's GDP, due to the migration of the economy from growth to recession. The country's GDP, based on the Commission's forecasts, would be 196 million at the end of 2016 and will now be 175 million. That's the truth. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'm filing the relevant table. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In simple terms, each household, assuming that in Greece there are about four million households, will be by the end of 2016 5 000 euros poorer than what would happen if you hadn't ruled. But let us see, and a little - I have a lot of things, I will not tire you with them - what happens to the real economy, ladies and gentlemen. On the basis of GFCM data, the business deletions, i.e. that have been closed and deleted from the General Commercial Register, have increased how much do you think, Mr. Tsipras, in the first quarter of 2016? 70%, while the recommendations of new firms were reduced by 20% at the same time. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This is the picture in the real economy and you have the courage to come here and cast your own enormous responsibilities elsewhere. Yes, well, the measures we are voting on today are solely due to your inability. You have managed to create a huge cash problem in the social security system with the return to the economy, which your own policies have caused. This alone is covered by the measures that we are voting on today, without giving any real prospects of sustainability in our system. Very soon, new measures will be needed to cover the hole from the measures that you are voting on today and will not do so and you know that too. They'll need new measures. I wonder sometimes if that's the design, do you want to transfer to the next government even greater problems? One thing is certain, at the end of this road, there is the absolute impoverishment of the middle class for the benefit only of the taxiffs and the party nomencladaura. Your proposal - because I listen very often to Mr Chakaloto talking about redistribution - does not redistribute wealth, distribute misery. It does not create incentives for work, it does not mobilize the healthy forces of Greek society, it simply sinks us deeper into the tide. Ladies and gentlemen, today's atmosphere in Greek society is very heavy. You don't have to go out and take a walk to Syntagma Square to understand it. There is unfortunately frustration, pessimism and even desperation everywhere. Every day it dawns, the government unfortunately places on the public new painful surprises. Uncertainty consumes the life of the Greeks. Citizens see a lot of their income lost. They make sacrifices, but unfortunately they don't see any lights at the end of the tunnel. Unfortunately young people, those who have especially voted for you and believed you, Mr. Tsipras, are being collected all over the place. Either they look out of Greece or they look for Grandpa and Grandma's pocket money so they can get through it. So we are clearly telling you that this cannot be the future of our country. And to all these citizens we answer and say clearly, yes, there is another way, there is another proposal, there is real hope. The way we call on the Greeks to go will not be an easy way. It will, however, be based on the power of truth and the power of collective self-awareness, faith in our ability, but also on the openness that will allow us to learn from the mistakes of the past and not to repeat them. This is the agreement of truth, which we propose to the Greek people, an agreement which faces the greatest problem today in the relationship between citizens and politicians, the lack of confidence. You know, every lie said in this Chamber, every lie even today, adds a little stone to the wall of wrath that divides the Greeks today, which divides Greek society. This wall of wrath must be dismantled, but we shall tear him down with honesty, consistently and with determination. The country must create wealth and not redistribute poverty. The simple truth is that the mix of budgetary policy, which you choose, will never lead the country to sustainable development. And to close the evaluation - we really hope that the assessment will be closed as soon as possible - the economy will not recover, because the evaluation is closing in the wrong way. And the preventive measures, which are now being requested, will become compulsory. That's why we're telling you that for your day, the memos are voting for two or two. And unfortunately, there is also a responsibility from our creditors, who are following reforms, which should be carried out, dragged and ultimately accept a package of tax raids, which they themselves know will not have the expected results. That is why we are being loaded with additional measures – a liquor store of EUR 3.6 billion, which will inevitably become the fine account of the Tsipras Government, the third and fourth memorandum, will gently exceed EUR 12 billion. We as a New Democracy have proposed another policy, which is based on the reduction of state spending, the reduction of taxes, a stable fiscal framework, but, above all, on the emphasis we want to place on attracting investment from domestic and foreign. And with regard to the budgetary policy mix, Mr Tsipras, we have not just reiterated that it must be based more on lowering expenditure and less on increasing taxes. We've done it, too. I would remind you that the first memorandum was based too much on tax increases. He failed the first Memorandum, as you all remember very well. The second memorandum, which we were asked to implement, changed the policy mix. We have had much more spending cuts and fewer tax increases. And you know, yes, no matter how much you don't like it, the economy has recovered from deep recession. We've achieved primary surpluses. We have reduced taxes by a total of EUR 1.2 billion. We returned EUR 6 billion to the real economy. And, yes, we also gave a social dividend of 450 million to our weakest fellow citizens! What you said at the time, 'fly', to come back and give four times less. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We can therefore achieve budgetary discipline - a discipline that is needed - and primary surpluses, reducing targeted and reasoned unnecessary expenditure. And, yes, we can reduce waste, but above all we can redesign and reorder public administration to achieve more with less. And it is not a reform, Mr Tsipras, that after eighteen years of succession of the 1997 AACC competition, people who are almost fifty years old, just to make them your party favour. That is not the reform! This is not the reform in public administration!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u700	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u701	So we know how we will achieve it and no longer have customer commitments. We have left yesterday's mistakes very courageously behind. I can guarantee one thing. The New Democracy will reduce taxes. With respect to the country's commitments to primary surpluses, we will implement a different mix of budgetary policy. And to restructure the insurance system, there was another way. I presented him to you in my first speech in the House, as Chief of Officership. And the first thing you rushed to tell me was to blame me as a neoliberal! You, the genuine left that cuts tax-free, which increases direct and indirect taxes, which crushes the low-pensioners, who harms the weakest, who are supposedly cut off! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But you're not left! You're an opportunist who's gonna do anything to sit in the chair! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Of course, we must reduce the cost of the insurance system, but we must reduce it in a fair way, by reducing the budget for the so-called 'family' funds, which you are insisting today not to touch, by considering more drastic expenditure on early retirement, of course by strengthening employment, and of course by stopping the recruitment of friends and friends, and by cancelling and the increases you have made to the public officials - the first action which you have already taken to legislate on - increases which this country, which simply has one and a half million unemployed, unfortunately all of which are from the private sector. And we all know that the insurance system can never be solved if it does not change the ratio of workers to pensioners, if it does not take the growth machine forward, if no new jobs are created that will ultimately add contributions to the system. And despite the great difficulties, we have a plan to make Greece work again, to recover its lost self-confidence and at the heart of our project is to attract private investment and exploit the many comparative advantages that our country has in a number of sectors. And of course, attracting investment needs a number of parameters, which are completely unknown to you: a stable tax system, a reduction of bureaucracy, predictable competition rules, simplification of the licensing process, especially with regard to land use. But be careful, Mr. Tsipras, one more thing is needed. A government that believes in the power of the free economy to produce wealth, which understands the importance of innovation and entrepreneurship in a world that changes so quickly. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And, of course, a government that works in a coordinated manner, following a clear plan, which each minister does not have on his own agenda, which is to be trusted by everyone, by citizens and investors, to do what he says and not to say what he cannot do. But how will he do all of this, I wonder, a government of which many ministers have as a unique qualification participation in the occupations, which he does not believe in excellence, which calls into question the core of the institutions of urban democracy, which he considers to play class stereotypes? You know, there are two kinds of ministers in this government. The so-called ideologists of a detested Left and the genuine opportunists of power. And there is Mr. Tsipras, who admirably combines both. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And then you expect that with this government, investment and growth will come. I want to say this, Mr Tsipras, because it is interesting, because you might want to put yourself on the table, and I would like to give you a recent, very recent example of how your Government perceives the concept of development. As soon as the unauthorised Minister yesterday accepted an amendment tabled by members of the SYRIZA, in which part of the extent of the coastal front in the Falik Bay is granted - look - to the Ministry of Justice to build support buildings. And instead of taking advantage of this unique area as the natural continuity of this amazing park made by the Centre of Culture "Stavros Niarchos", you want to grant it to the Ministry of Justice, when the relevant studies and the region, your own district, has already committed resources. Therefore, the jewelry of Athens, a place that should be the starting point of Athenian Riviera, will host horns of MATs. Really, Mr. Tsipras, science raises its hands high! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Eliminate this provision at least today. Remove it even today. Say you made a mistake. It is not possible for these things to happen and for them not to be commented on and thus to be destroyed and the development perspective of the entire southern front of Attica to be destroyed. Ladies and gentlemen, I am closed because I have exceeded time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u702	Mr President, please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u703	Yes, I'm closing, Mr. President. One more minute. The vast majority of the Greeks are now aware that the government of Mr. Tsipras is a government that is diluted in lies, in disrepute, in tragic failure. The vast majority of the Greeks have realised that the tearing of the memorials was the most vulgar deception of the weakest layers of Greek society. And citizens now understand that the political system of Mr Tsipras and his ministers is committed to defending prison, party occupation, privileges and customer relations. It has been four weeks since, as Chief of Officer Responsibility with a sense of responsibility, I asked that this government should leave to give a new credible government solution to the country. I did it, ladies and gentlemen, with a great deal of thought. I am a politician who has always sought consensus and composition. I did so last September, but then Mr. Tsipras led the country to a second, improper national election. And since the first time I was elected President of the New Democracy, I have done everything in my power to contribute to a more fertile political atmosphere in the country. We supported the establishment of a national refugee strategy, taking initiatives at national and international level. A strategy, which, unfortunately, the government itself, despite being agreed to in the presidential palace, failed. We also tabled specific proposals on insurance - painful proposals, but concrete - in the logic of fair distribution of burdens between generations. And we have escaped - and escaped every day - from the rule of the sterile opposition that was dominated here by Parliament for decades from almost every Seminar. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is now clear to everyone that this government is not seeking any consensus. It cannot withstand consensus, because the dialogue that consensus itself requires will reveal its own nakedness and inadequacy. Mr. Tsipras is investing in splitting. He did so in his speech the other day in the parliamentary group. It triggers the most basic instincts of Greek society, fuels the rage, because it cannot withstand the strength of the arguments. He repeats in other words, in his own words, the dilemma: 'Or we end them or end us'. So let's finish with the most incompetent and dangerous government that the place has known since post-Civilisation! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And I would be unforgivable if I did not do everything in my power to lead us to the only solution and the only way out, to the only democratic way out: elections, where the people, knowing the truth, will decide themselves, sovereign, for their future. Elections to put an end to the country's conflict, an end to uninterrupted poverty without any prospect. Elections for the country to have a credible government with its own plan, a government that can discuss with creditors, but discuss in terms of mutual respect and credibility, a government that can go along with society on the difficult path we have in front of us, but on the assurance of a success that now concerns all Greeks. And elections to a strong Greece at the heart of Europe. However, not for a Greek failed state, exposed to geopolitical storms. Is the election cost? Of course they're costing it, but it's much less than the ruin of your stay in power. One thing is certain: one way or another is not late for you to abandon power. And the only good - because there is indeed a good - from your brief stay to power is that at last all the myths of post-political populism will have been shattered and with it the myth of the Left in power. A left that turned the dreams of the citizens who believed in a nightmare and of course vindicated all those who warned that this Left would be impossible to manage the fates of the place seriously and effectively, because some were warning of all the things we are experiencing today. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We have paid dearly, the whole society, the lies of the last sixteen months. Along with this must be done and the perceptions that have unfortunately dominated for decades in our country, which unfortunately have culminated in today's government: demagogic populism, falsification, stateism, clienteleship, political disarmament. Our proposal is based on the hope created by the truth, because only in this way will we be able to regain the confidence of the citizens and create a wide social alliance that will finally move Greece forward. Greece cannot be the weak link in Europe, nor can it become the subject of irony and mocking, and it cannot be the ideals that have been tried and failed and abandoned in all parts of the world, here, only in Greece remain strong. And the role of the next government will not just be management. Our task is to defend with courage and implement a policy of total recovery in the country that goes beyond the achievement of close technological objectives. It is true, and I am closing with this, ladies and gentlemen, that the political crisis and the extreme divisional and extremist speech have drawn many of our fellow citizens to the politically dangerous extremes and their deadlock. However, the large majority, the silent majority of society, still wants Greece to be a modern European country, wants to live in a country that will allow its citizens to unleash their strengths freely and create, a country that rewards talent, work, entrepreneurship. This wide-ranging social majority will once again be expressed by the New Democracy and with all the Greeks we will do Greece what it deserves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u704	Mr Drasakis, Vice-President of the Government, has the floor now. Then Mr Theodorakis, President of the River, will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u705	Mr President, I would like for a minute to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u706	Do you want the floor now, Mr. Paphie?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u707	Now, Mr President, it is direct.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u708	Okay, there's no question. Mr. Drasakis, for a minute, Mr. Pafilis will be speaking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u709	Mr President, we want to denounce the fact that police forces, on the occasion of and on the pretext of the unacceptable action of the 'unfamiliar' with molotovs, have made general use of chemicals against demonstrators which had nothing to do with these incidents. There is a responsibility and we call on the government immediately to intervene, if it has not already done so, so that these unacceptable actions by the police can be stopped.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u710	Yes, sir. The government is in knowledge, as far as I know. Mr. Drasakis, please, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u711	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as the Chief of the New Democracy spoke, I thought I was listening to a 'archang of truth' and had to go to google to see what the truth meant. And I saw, Mr Mitsotakis, that it really means the reality of an event. Mr. Mitsotakis repeated to us here the well-known old account of Mr. Samaras 'what if'. If what? If the fifth evaluation had been completed. If the second Memorandum had been completed. If the events had been carried out, which the Chief of New Democracy does not dare to say that they have not taken place. Why did the fifth evaluation not take place, Mr Mitsotakis, after everything was done so well? Why did we in the first Eurogroup have to meet the requirement: 'You two conclude the fifth evaluation', that's what we were told, and the Greek people voted for what they voted for? What you call "speakings", Mr Mitsotakis, were objectives of a political party, were useful to our country. We are also committed to implementing these objectives, either sooner or later. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mitsotakis has said one truth. He announced wage and pension cuts. He announced them, read his talk carefully. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, every crisis is characterised by insecurity, from the intestinal to xenophobia. After all, we see this in many European countries, but we have also lived here with numerous talks of representatives of the Opposition, but also with the Head of the New Democracy: 'Introduction', 'no Europe', 'no world', 'no world', 'no world', 'no world', 'no world', 'no dilemmas and policies for Europe, the world or Greece', all is about who is more a liar than the other! Introverty, then, destructive, demonology, inability to conceive the great image, in which we live, incapable of understanding the dynamics of developments. You're cultivating, Mr. Mitsotakis, a climate of disaster. You are talking about deadlocks in the government, when it comes to your own dead ends, which you want to hide. You are a split party, you are a party with an identity crisis, and we see this every day. But, above all, because the positive scenario is alive, it is effective. And the implementation of the positive scenario, for which the government works, cancels your own plans for 'left parentheses' and 'right of redress'. The extent of disasters, of course, which have accumulated from the first and second memorandums and the general crisis, is enormous. But we can do it. The course will be difficult, but the great dangers are behind us. After the completion of the evaluation, we will have, Mr Mitsotakis and ladies and gentlemen, three years in front of us to plan our action, to finally implement our own programme together with the commitments we have for the agreement, so that we can respond positively to many of the concerns of the world, many of the problems of the people. You spoke about the system that was sustainable, about insurance. Is that the picture we have for Greece to the crisis? Didn't you say that Mr. Yannisis was right and wrong, that his reform was not implemented, because if the Yannitsi reform were to be implemented, the system would be sustainable? So today, you, the follower of truth, come here to tell us that this insurance system - which had been flooded and wasted so many times in the past, that for many years the fragmentation and clientele of many regulations have made it unsustainable and unreliable - has it become unsustainable because SYRIZA has come to power? And you claim that title of truth? You told us that for its assessment and delay it was the government's fault. But you're the only one who says that. The day before yesterday we read analyses of large foreign houses, such as UBS and others, saying that after one point the delay is due to additional, new demands made by some of the institutions. Did you now become king's king? Yesterday, the Brigell Institute said that two major dilemmas were considered behind the delay of the Greek evaluation, not only in Greece but above us. The first dilemma is whether we will forever continue austerity by shifting the need for growth in the future or by proposing growth and in conditions of development to implement any further fiscal adjustments they need after seven years of austerity. What position are you taking? Do you want to continue the cuts, as you said here, in expenditure? Do you want further new recession cycles? Or should we proceed on the basis of the summer's agreement and the forecasts that enable us to move towards a recovery already in the second half of this year? And the second dilemma is for the debt. I think I heard no word about it in your speech. Aren't you concerned about the debt issue? Do you want to be eternally dependent on the loans of the ESM and the Memorandums? Because when we borrow from institutions, we will have memoranda. Do you not agree with the government's proposal to try to reach a political agreement on debt, which will ensure that Greece can get rid of this comitology and that we can finally borrow from the markets to serve our old loans? You told us we were going to development by reducing taxes. Really? In these circumstances and in this situation? On the contrary, we can promise the people. That through the recovery we can reduce taxes and make them even fairer than the government is trying today. However, I have also heard of targeted expenditure reductions. If they're targeted, tell us which, to do exactly, as I hear, we do. We are preparing - I think it has been mentioned by the Finance Ministers - a review of all expenditure, not to reduce them, but to be able to reorder them. And we will enable any ministry that achieves a reduction in costs to ensure that this additional revenue is used to serve other purposes of the same Ministry or of the wider unity of objectives that these Ministries will have. But you, who are talking about cutting expenditure - and you said it twice - do not feel the obligation to explain both Parliament and the people, what do you mean? Operational expenditure? But even Mr Tomsen said the day before yesterday that the possibilities are few, because the hospitals do not have many times for them to work. You mean wages and pensions of what layers? The judges, the Advocates-General, the civil servants in general or exceed the question of the truth, which I am asking? But you also said something very serious, in my opinion. You said that the third memorandum and the measures we are discussing are a clause of the unreliability of SYRIZA and of that government. So, Mr. Mitsotakis, if we understood well, would you disagree with what Mrs. Lagard said? Mrs. Lagard doesn't say it was this government's fault. Mrs. Lagard says she failed the first memorandum. It's a mistake. And the second memorandum failed and it was never completed and the previous governments failed. Are you, in other words, criticising Mrs Lagard because she doesn't bear all the burdens on SYRIZA? Is that the position you've got? We have now reached it correctly today by Mr Shahinides, a former Minister, in an article in Kathimerini, that the first memorandum led to the second and because of the second - because of his failure and because of the excessive budgetary adjustments and the austerity he has demanded - we have driven - you have led! - to the deadlock with the fifth evaluation. So we arrived here, because we had a crisis before the memorials, but also because the memoranda accumulated huge weights and problems. And we are, today, faced with two crises, with two groups of problems: the ones created by the crisis and the ones you have created, the way you have managed the two previous memos. [[At this point the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President of the Government hits the warning.]] Mr President, I understand the limits of time. I would just like to conclude with a more comprehensive statement, although the speech - I repeat - of the President of the New Democracy is offered for careful study, to see the secret truths that exist in there, but also the many lies, which are also inaccurate. Mr Mitsotakis' speech today confirmed that he has neither an alternative nor a sustainable policy for the country. Firstly, because if he had, he would apply it and his resignation. Secondly, because he is committed to a distorting perception of the crisis and the way out. Mr Mitsotakis still believes in the automation of markets, when the crisis we are experiencing is a crisis of these perceptions. And thirdly, because it adopts a secret - although some elements appear today - a neoliberal agenda, which wants a new cycle of cuts. And don't think we can cut public wages without cutting wages in the private sector too. Those who demand wage cuts in the public sector mean and want other cuts in the private sector. So SYRIZA is the main pole of society's stability and transformation. At the most difficult time, with all the fronts open, SYRIZA stands up, united, ready to recognise and correct shortcomings and weaknesses, to develop the planning of the government's project for the completion of the four-year period. SYRIZA remains and is at the heart of the processes that are taking place throughout Europe, is a catalyst of differentiations that are taking place towards the collapse of the old consensus and towards the formation of new progressive majorities, where this dynamic will manifest itself in our country with the aim and our country to move around and change Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u712	Thank you. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please be quiet! The President of Potamio, Mr Stavros Theodorakis, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u713	Ladies and gentlemen, I had to absent myself for a few hours this morning in Crete on the island which gave ten of the sixteen Members to SYRIZA. I should also inform you, Prime Minister, that you are a member of Heraklion, because you cannot be informed by your MPs because they are not coming down to the island, that at least everyone on the island - who is at least on the streets - is saying scalps about what has happened over the last few months. But do you know why the world is mad at you, gentlemen of SYRIZA and gentlemen of the ANELs? Because you keep lying. And I'm not talking about election lies. I am talking about the current lies, what you said until yesterday, which you said you would not vote for some measures, and now you are bringing them in and voting for them. And because your inability is a proverb, you close the National Garden. Where night after night you denounced the police state, you are now sealing the National Garden. In a few minutes and in the playgrounds, there's a lot of people going on! But let's go to the law that makes you ashamed. The Greek man of work, the mercenary, the farmer, the businessman, on the basis of the law you bring, will share with the state his income. Money falling into Danaides' stench. Money that eats an overcrowded, inefficient and oppressive state. Heavy without any reflection, because nothing in Greece no longer returns as a social provision. No free education, no free health, just to talk about capital. He pays today's worker to cover the holes of a mortal system, without knowing what pension he will receive and if he will receive thirty-five years later. The Prime Minister claims that the contributions for 90% of insured persons are reduced and pensions are not reduced at the same time. But then how does EUR 1.8 billion come about? How does this savings come about? From 10%? Of the three hundred thousand people? Who are we kidding? The lenders or the Greeks? I think the Greeks, because with the lenders, it turns out, there's a deal in numbers. You extract, gentlemen of the government, society with the "dead goat theory". In other words, since you cannot offer goat to those who have promised, you are now telling them that you will kill the neighbor's goat - in insurance, tax and, of course, in education. After the end of the model schools, you meant the end and the successful full-day schools, with the incredible excuse - I heard the Minister of Education - that it is unequal that only a few schools have a strengthening teaching. So let us abolish it everywhere. All downwards, as comrade Madour teaches, the model of your half-ministers. A shipwreck of ideas, a complex of ethnicism with holy light and sharpness!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u714	Please, be quiet, be patient.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u715	Before I continue with the law that makes you ashamed, I would like to ask you another question. Allow me, it's timely, of the days. What is the value of bank ads in the capital control period? What's it worth? The public - pay attention - in the last months of 2015 could only be taken by banks of EUR 60 and the ‘SGEI’ advertised banks. You look at the numbers that the banks gave publicity, the official numbers, and the findings are screaming. “RIZOPASTI”, which has at least twice as much circulation as I can know - takes a total of 60,000 euros in 2015, while the newspaper of the ruling party takes from the banks 500,000 euros in 2015. And it's not just the banks, it's the state. It is also the state, the wider public, the CECE. We see their ads in the party media, but you do not tell us how much you received. Why? It sounds like there's a disagreement with the government. Mr. Drasakis said that the evidence should be provided, Mr. Pappas said that only the bank data should be provided. We say something very simple, gentlemen of the government. Give me all the evidence. Where's public advertising expenditure going? Where does the advertising expenditure of the ECHO go? In other words, to find out how the conflict is being shifted, this is what it is all about. And then there are the Great Week's amendments, on Tuesday, on Wednesday, two new journalists' posts at Mr. Toska's office, two new journalists' posts at Mr. Vernardakis' office, each with a fee of EUR 2,625 per month. Watch out. You're making the Minister's propaganda with more money than a university teacher gets with twenty years of pre-service and two children! A vehicle that cripples in the past is the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. The same tricks as the old one, the old bad forms of the system and the same mistakes. And your law is an intermediate station, except that next station is the collapse. It is an insurance policy that does not guarantee the next generations, it is an insurance that is well ignored by professional funds, those that could offer packages, which would cover the specificities of each industry. It is an insurance that ignores private insurance, i.e. ignores the reality of Europe. It is an insurance policy that is even more burdened with work and entrepreneurship and strengthens - and this is a crime - the departure of Greek businesses abroad. They celebrate some neighbouring countries for our contributions and taxes. Watch out. The figures can be seen - and our MPs have presented them in detail - from all sides. I'm saying this briefly. From 2017 to 2020, the charge on contributions and taxes for the selfemployed will be from 33% to 56% of his income. And since 2021, extermination has been completed, with a charge of 46% to 56% on net income and in some cases 65% if someone manages to have income, about 70,000 a year. You're sending an account to productive Greece while you know he can't afford to pay him. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not just that the numbers are not coming out. It's mostly that the economy doesn't come out with those numbers. You will fail because you undermine production and creation. And unfortunately, and also fortunately - and I am glad to say - the Greeks' business ideas will be implemented abroad by the young scientists who are leaving and by the businesses that are leaving. The sacrifices of the retired and above all of the insured will once again be in vain. And 2010 assured us that the system is sustainable and cut pensions several times, twelve. And now you tell us that the system will be sustainable, as long as we vote for extra-realist contributions. However, they are contributions that will not be collected. Why can an honest worker in Greece work half the hours, half the days, half the months for the waste state? And in a few months, you will say that other measures and new sacrifices will be needed in 2018, in 2019. So you're not ready to put an end to mocking. You perpetuate her. We, who see the deadlocks accumulate in society, do not live in the sterile opposition, do not stay with crossed hands and have a proposal: it is the three-pillar system. That's the river's proposal. First pillar: The main pension to be paid by the State. Secondly, an occupational pension instead of an adjunct to be granted by the professional funds, which can be established by each occupational sector, such as engineers, doctors, journalists, lawyers and farmers. The funds shall be financed by the property of subsidiary and one single. And the third pillar is optional supplementary insurance. In other words, individual savings, with tax and other incentives. They are paid by insurance companies, with the possibility of working with the professional funds. With the proposal made by Potami, we have a direct link between contributions and the main pension. This ensures the coming generations from the arbitrariness of previous generations. Because we have to admit it and it is collectively responsible. We keep having the same story. Contributions are increased and the rates of replacement for the next generation are reduced, so that pensions can be guaranteed and large budgetary holes closed. In particular, there must be flexibility in the level of the contribution it pays for the selfemployed and the self-employed. He should decide what is important to him. Small contributions with low pensions or higher contributions with a higher pension?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u716	Mr. Papadopoulos, Mr. Amyras, don't argue. Listen carefully. Here you go, Mr. Theodorakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u717	Why is there the reasonable question: Who will pay greater contributions from tomorrow in this crisis? When he's even getting - if he gets - low pension. That's a stimulus of evasion. It's not a motive to participate. You say "pay now and you will get a pension tomorrow". The first is certain, however, while the other is uncertain. It is "lived May to eat clover" tailored to proportional science. The river proposal, ladies and gentlemen, puts an end to hypocrisy. It limits the State's liquid promises, and so mainly takes care of the weaker ones, who are always put more than the default of the promises. And be careful, so that you do not think it is a proposal for Greeks only, this system is now being implemented in most European countries, from Denmark and Sweden, to Italy and Poland. A similar three-pillar system was proposed by Parliament's Budget Office and by the Syriza Committee. And, of course, Mr. Katrugalos did not mind. For the main pensions, they will pay, on the basis of this system we say, about half of what they pay today. The rest of the money, I repeat, can be invested, channelled to new professional funds and invested in the real economy. However, occupational insurance will only be compulsory until a point, for example, of 3% contribution. The extra will be optional. One person or industry, however, will be able to pay more and receive more if the investment it makes pays. The money, in other words, will literally be its own, and the reduction in contributions will revitalise the economy, which is also a great concern. That is what should be of interest at the moment in the country and the National Representation: production, economy, exports, words unknown - let me - to the current government, words unknown, as the word unknown is the word 'project'. You only care about the slogans, the food of populism. You became "like the water of Kamateros", as Dionysius Charitopoulos said, and we became a mess. You see ministers and you wonder where they came from and why. Do you know how much the debts are in insurance funds and IRS and you're also in debt? Do you know how much the debts are? It is EUR 86 billion, half of the country's GDP, the largest in Europe. But be careful. 80% of these debts are created by those who owe more than EUR 1 million. What are you going to do with it? What have you been doing for sixteen months? We have proposed from the first day, from the first programmable, independent public prosecutor duty to identify the major debtors, those who currently owe 60 billion to Greek society. So it is chasing the corrupt, justice and productive reconstruction that the country needs. But you once again prove that the 'first time left' is neither radical nor reformist. It is an impotent power coalition, with strong doses of statism, populism, nationalism and partisanism, a conservative governance. You hug, ladies and gentlemen of the government, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, all that went bankrupt the country. That's why you go bankrupt too so quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u718	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u719	Please, Mr President, may I have the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u720	Mr Panagiotis Kammenos, President of the Independent Greeks, has the floor and then the Prime Minister will speak. Mr. Kammene, before you take the floor, a Criss SYRIZA MEP, perhaps the ones he referred to, and the President wants to say something for half a minute. Mr. Igoumenides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u721	Mr President, Mr Theodorakis asked if we dare go to our places without saying no cuts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u722	Please, be quiet. Now, why are you interfering? Please. We'll be closed in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u723	You've got another idea. He didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u724	Mr. Ignace, please. Mr. Igoumenides, please continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u725	You will listen, Mr. Ausgeakis. You'll hear them too. Wait. Let me talk. I was the protagonist of a stunned episode, which, with the camera, is magnifying to its extent and importance. I stated, in response to this episode from this Stepma, that the wrong door was knocked on by those who addressed me. I'm not pushing. I'm not blackmailing. I don't give up on pressure. I'm not afraid.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u726	You're addressing me. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u727	As I have said, the left-wing government has neither compromised nor threatened nor will it be in danger. I would therefore like to say, Mr President, that after this debate in this House, following my position, in the area of the countryside of Heraklion, I was approached by a hundred and fifty new members of the SYRIZA, and today, if we did not have the debate, there would be an event that they planned to do with three hundred people. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] It'll be next weekend if it's not my obligations here. Mr. Theodorakis is welcome to attend the event.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u728	Don't go on, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u729	Even the Prime Minister of the River in Heraklion, Mr. Danellis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u730	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u731	I would also like to speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u732	Everyone's welcome! He wasn't mistaken, nor is it personal. Mr. Theodorakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u733	I'll say a word. Potami in no way plays with violence and does not anger the citizens. I said something else that my colleague probably didn't understand. I said that citizens say 'cutters'. SYRIZA MPs can do whatever they want!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u734	Mr Kammenos, Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u735	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of this dialogue I would like to remind you that there are procedures in democracy. In democracy they do not elect governments, not polluters, not newspapers, canals, blogs or trumpets. In the republics, the Greek people are voting for the democratic government, which they have elected for four years. And this constitutional legitimacy has this government. So those who bet on virtual reality, who are made by their friends, associates and gang executives, who have supported the Migration so far, will be very sad. I have listened with great attention to the Chiefs of Anti-Population and in parallel with the debate, which is being held here in Parliament, I have watched, and I will monitor and invite you to attend a huge campaign, conducted on the Internet by international personalities, by teachers, by universities, by politicians, by economists, by people of culture and letters, to support Greece. It is touching that every minute thousands of signatures go under a text calling on Europe's leaders tomorrow, during the Eurogroup debate, to support Greece. To get Greece out of the chains and all to decide together to let Greece take its own path towards progress. At the same time, therefore, that international personalities from all over the world support Greece, in this Chamber all we have heard so far from the Chiefs of Anti-Population was a debate that moved between the goat by Mr Theodorakis and the cartoons by Arkas Mitsotakis! That's the reality! And this reality, unfortunately, is seen from outside and perceived now, what responsibility each political organization has. We have forgotten about the debate that is taking place and I have heard Vice-Presidents speaking about the measures taken following a tough negotiation that this government is doing. I heard the Chief of Officer County talking about the International Monetary Fund and saying he's right. Sadly, however, the writings remain. I am presenting to Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, and I urge you to take it as a copy and have it with you, the report of the International Monetary Fund under number 14151 of July 2014, before that government takes over. On page 2 you will see that the agreed measures by the PASOK - New Democracy Government are all 15 billion euros for 2015 and 2016. They signed measures of 15 billion euros for 2015 and 2016 for Greece! And today the government brings EUR 5 billion up to 2018. That's the difference and the only truth there is. I am presenting the report of the International Monetary Fund to the House. [[At this point, the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the record the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I say to Mr. Mitsotakis: take it in your hands. You're gonna smash it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u736	Is the war over? Are you back?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u737	Mrs. Vulture, will you smash it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u738	I don't see you in a variation suit!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u739	Mrs. Vulture, please! Don't be ironic. I'm the president. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u740	He addressed to me, Mr President. He's addressed to me. Rescind him in class, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u741	Mrs. Vulture, you wear the cloak! One day you cry as a descendant of the left and then you appear as a Member of the New Democracy. But, let go of the joke, it won't pass anymore! Leave that, Mrs. Vulture, and get serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u742	Don't touch the ancestors in your mouth!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u743	So will you break the document of the International Monetary Fund?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u744	Put on the variant suit!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u745	Do you agree with Mr Mitsotakis, who is in agreement with the International Monetary Fund, or do you agree with the Government? Well, make up your mind! And I would like to ask you another question: last summer during the vote, the then President of the New Democracy, Vangelis Meimarakis, said: "All Members decided that the New Democracy, as a side of responsibility and consistency, supports the country's European prospects and course and votes for the agreement signed by the Government of SYRIZA - Independent Greeks". What, then, is the attitude of the New Democracy today? Is the attitude of the New Democracy responsible and European, as Mr Meymarakis said at the time, or is it irresponsible and non-European, as Mr Mitsotakis follows today? Or is this part of the huge war that Mr. Mitsotakis has opened with whatever he meant to rule Kostas Karamanlis? The attacks on the President of the Republic, the ongoing question of the Karamanlis government's policy on debt and the support of another policy show that the New Democracy is following a path that, of course, will bring alliances not to the left but to neoliberalism. I read in REAL NEWS that you will soon take Mrs. Miranda Xafa with you. Do you agree with Mrs Xhafa that the one-off should be abolished, pensions and salaries cut to 50%? Do you agree with "Action"? Do you agree with the neoliberals? Say it! And say so, that the voters of the New Democracy listen to you, to understand what way you are going! I am making the Meimarakis declaration then on responsibility and European perspective, and let the Greek people compare it to the current position of the New Democracy. [[At this point, the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the record the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I want to remind you of some other things, though. I would like to remind you why we have arrived today in voting for insurance. Who are those responsible for the dissolution of the country's insurance system? Who supported the PSI, Mrs. Vulture? You were screaming at the TVs. Do you know how much the PSI cost?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u746	Let's go again! Why don't you do it, Cougie? Cougie, didn't you say you were going to do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u747	From the Bank of Greece's figures, you charged the funds by 11,597,000 euros to the rest of the PASOK-New Democracy coexistence. This is the image of the country, and so you have dismantled the country, the insurance funds, and you now oblig the Greek people to take such measures! I'm filing it in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u748	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u749	And, of course, you have not only broken up the funds, taking the deposits, turning the properties of universities, hospitals and insurance funds into bonds, and breaking them in the middle, but doing something else. With the policy you have pursued, you have led to the reduction of the revenues from the insurance funds, so that there are revenues of EUR 5.218 000 000 and pensions of EUR 10.840.000. It's the result of your own policy! The Greek people are being called upon today to vote for the 1/3 of the measures that you signed today, and this government is now coming to ask for the vote. And instead of giving your vote and putting your voice together with Greece's voice - where Greece's voice is supported by international personalities - you come here and one speaks of goats and the other speaks of Arkas' cartoons! This is the reality that the Greek people are experiencing and experiencing. I'm presenting to the House and that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u750	The pensions... (It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u751	Would you like to find the way to the Bureau?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u752	Quiet, please! The holidays are not written in the Minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u753	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u754	You'll get the floor later. You should find the way back to the Bureau. Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the Bank of Greece data, the measures taken between 2010 and 2014 by the governments of New Democracy and PASOK total EUR 58.6 billion. It's 58.6 billion euros! And the current measures, between 2016 and 2018, in the three years that this government brings here, are EUR 5 billion at the worst of cases. And while you voted for 58.6 billion euros, while you broke up with the PSI on the insurance funds, while you covered all the crimes committed by the PASOK governments, you are coming here today and instead of talking at all and following a national effort, you are making the retardations and lions that others have done on payment, as I will prove right now. I present to the House the measures taken in the last four years from 2010 to 2014. [[At this point, the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the record the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And you did something else. If one reads the international news, which the Greek media do not reproduce, it will see that somewhere far away, in Mozambique, the International Monetary Fund has left because he has arrested the government for committing a fraud. Who's the protagonist of fraud? Mr. Venizelos' partner, Mr. Safa. So Mr Safa in Mozambique took EUR 1.2 billion for boats and turned them into swaps in order to reduce Mozambique's debt! This gentleman, gentlemen of the New Democracy, brought by Venizelos to Greece and gave him 500 million, acquitted him! You acquitted him by law, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u755	We don't get a bite!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u756	Don't you bite? Mr. Venizelo, don't bite.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u757	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u758	So, Mr Venizelos, you have acquitted him, gentlemen of the New Democracy, you have forgiven him at the same time as an entire country, such as Mozambique, is going through a government crisis for the same deceit that you brought us here. I submit the 'LE MONDE' front page for historical reasons. [[At this point, the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the record the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, what I said before does not appear to be reproduced in the media. And I'm glad that Mr. Theodorakis made a report on the so-called "bundles of bank advertising" for 2015 that were published. Of course, there are funds allocated as advertising expenditure and large media aids were provided. But this is where questions begin. Everything was big media? The media, which took EUR 2 and 3 and 4 million from the banks, how does it happen to be the same media, which seems to owe the same banks and not to pay off their loans? He asked for the river to be checked. I made him a small check, and unfortunately for the Potami and for Mr Theodorakis I found that of the four banks there is also a company which was strengthened by these ads. It is the site ‘protagon.gr’.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u759	When?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u760	In 2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u761	In 2015... (It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u762	Isn't it your 2015 protagon? So I say because you question it - in 2015 it was not your 'protagon', right? - the relevant document from the Media Control Committee that it is still declared in the name of Mr Theodorakis and take the FEK, which says that Mr Theodorakis was the founder of the 'protagon.gr'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u763	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u764	It's still the FEK. The FEK has not changed. So we agree that the complex should be cut off to pay various sites, various websites, various media and monkeys, behind which political parties and politicians are hiding.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u765	Quiet, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u766	And I call on the prosecutor here to take the following lists: bank loans, financing of CEDEFOP, lists revealed by the 'PRESS PROGECT' concerning lifelong learning, and that is where he will see that they are the same instruments and beyond the named instruments, are the means used for extortion by specific political systems. Can you not tell me, ladies and gentlemen, how it is possible for Mr Mavrikos to have been financed by all the banks for the newspaper 'Acropolis', which he was only reading? Who intervened in the banks so that Mr Maurikos could take them? You'll tell me that you have nothing to do with Mr. Mauriko. So I will tell you about one you have an affair with, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. There's a name in four of the five banks, Mr. Panagiotis Zesis. You don't know him? Well, of course you don't know him!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u767	You know him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u768	Because Mr. Panagiotis Zesis, Mrs. Vultoussis...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u769	You know him!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u770	Of course, I know him very well. He's with the guy who was playing Drapetson's dude and swearing the whole world, Mr. Faelo Kranidiot, who you erased him for extreme right-wing behavior.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u771	Look what the Minister of National Defence is doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u772	But the brass of Drapetson took them as a fornicator from the banks to really create the impressions that the complexion wants to create, along with them, a number of extreme sites, the "M@ELEIO.gr", Mr. Chios was paid by the banks to say what he says and other dozens...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u773	The "Honni"?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u774	Mrs. Vuldesis, will you ask all the questions today? Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u775	"HONI"?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u776	Mind the "XONI" you have it, but "XONI" is a budget newspaper, it also pays tax, as other newspapers pay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u777	"XONI" isn't yours?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u778	And I am not referring to the official newspapers, I am referring to the means you use with the various murutes, to create these kinds of trabucism. I'm presenting them to the House, and I'm requesting the intervention of the prosecutor. [[At this point the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And of course, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with all this, a government which no one holds and has the opportunity to strike the conflict to the end. We do not have night amendments to relieve businessmen, as the New Democracy has unfortunately done for the benefit of PASOK's governance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u779	The amendment came to 1.10 yesterday!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u780	We, Safah, won't let him go. The government was imprisoned by those suppliers of the Ministry of Defence who had touched the finger on honey! And be sure...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u781	The direct assignments?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u782	What assignments, Mr. Cryazides? I give you the floor. Stand up and speak. Tell me what assignments?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u783	Mr. Cryazides, what do we do now? That's not a process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u784	I allow the interruption, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u785	Wouldn't you leave because of the assignments?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u786	What assignments, Mr. Cryazides?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u787	The ones Muzalas took.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u788	What assignments?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u789	The direct assignments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u790	Mr. Cryazides, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u791	There's no direct assignment. There's no direct assignment, Mr. Cryazides. That's what you go and you say in your county and you know well that there's not even one chance that it's directly assigned. There have been competitions everywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u792	After the amendment, you brought it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u793	Of course, there is the possibility of a delegation, but there is not even a single award until now! Everywhere there are open competitions and fairs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u794	It's all direct.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u795	Mr. Cryazides, stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u796	From this government direct assignments you won't find.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u797	The matter was clarified, although it was a matter of the previous debate and it had been clarified at that time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u798	Not at all, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u799	Go ahead, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u800	What can we do? They have some contours. Instead of getting out and telling the truth to the Greek people, one deals with sketches, the other about goats and the other about the assignments that do not exist until now. That's the image of counterpopulation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u801	And you with Mozambique!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u802	You're out of competition.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u803	Mr President, please conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u804	Ladies and gentlemen, I will not delay this House any longer and give the floor to the next speaker. But I want it to be quite clear to everyone that this government has been given a popular mandate. This popular mandate is to stop this policy of impoverishment of the Greek people. With a tough negotiation he managed to reduce to one third what you signed. This government managed to take the whole of the European Union with it. This government has managed to mobilise the international political community, the economic community and the people of letters and culture, to move towards a solution to the issue of Greece. And from where Greece was at the corner, this government managed to gain its allies to Europe's strengths. And I am very sorry that the Civic Opposition, as well as the other Opposition, rather than following the example of Vangelis Meimarakis, who in the summer voted for this agreement, giving New Democracy, from where Samaras became 8% and 10%, one 30%, is returning to the policy of sterile confrontation and cooperation with the new-liberal representatives of the International Monetary Fund, Mrs Xafa and the rest. So we will soon proceed to the evaluation. The days coming for the Greek people are much better. And when we go to our constituencies, we'll take you together so you can go out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u805	Thank you. Mr Theodorakis, President of the Potamio, has the floor for a minute to clarify the issue raised by Mr Kammenos, so that there is no shadow left.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u806	A formal clarification I would like to make, because the nights at Porto Hydra's villas, they're probably tired of the Minister. First, I left Protagon in spring 2014. When I decided to enter politics, my business relationship with journalism stopped. And, secondly, I can only take Mr Kammenos's recommendations, who is well known for his 'four, four,' about morality for the Greek Parliament. It's for not the parliamentarians laughing, but the galleries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u807	Mr Kammens has the floor to close the matter, because the Prime Minister will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u808	Mr. Theodorakis must learn that the phrase 'four' had been said by Mr. Samaras to Mr. Nikolaopoulos, when he was his Minister, in order to deal with the troika. It's not my phrase. It's Mr. Samara's. Secondly, Mr Theodorakis, with the 'protagon' how much did you get until 2014 from bank adverts and others? How much did you get from CDC? How much did you probably get from others?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u809	Nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u810	Anything? So what I submitted to you proves that in 2015 you continue to take from the banks what was from 2014. And had been approved since 2014 by the 2015 sponsorships, which I have tabled today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u811	How much?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u812	And then I'm telling you that the VET, which you invoke, never presented. The FEK here says that the term of office of the first board of directors of the company expires on 30-6 2011 and is then renewed without the existence of a new FEK. If you have a new FEK, bring it to us. And if you deny your relationships with "protagon", I'm glad you're doing it now, but the ads until 2014 you got them. So you are not entitled to speak, at least you, about advertising.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u813	Well, the explanations have been given, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u814	I'm glad you're doing it. Now that we're going to an investigation into the parties' loans, put in and put in advertising companies, see how there are advertising companies, which are in the five systemic banks as advertisers, which are on the CEDEFOP list, on the list of Lifelong Learning, with four and five million euros, and by chance these advertising companies have...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u815	Mr. President, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u816	.25% to 45%, not declared anywhere. Let's see who they give them, and if they're behind political faces. I ask you to help the Committee of Inquiry to investigate all these companies and finally find advertisers who are members of thirty-five companies and there is no picture of them on the Internet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u817	All right, Mr Kammenos's speech is seen as an extension of his speech. There is no question of a further extension.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u818	I declare and have declared myself: I do not know if you are hosting other villas which the Greek people obviously do not even know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u819	There aren't any!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u820	Aren't there anywhere?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u821	Mr. Amyras, quietly at this hour.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u822	I remember him in the villa of Simitis that you and Papatonius also be in the restaurant behind Hilton from morning till night. Don't do that!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u823	Come on, please! The incident is deemed to be over. The President and President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Alexis Tsipras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u824	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to the speech of the Chief of Staff, which indeed needs a study. This is because it highlights the strategic deadlock, in which not only the New Democracy party has stumbled, but all those powers, which constituted last year's 'Move Europe' movement, based on a mistaken, totally wrong, as things showed, an estimate of politics that SYRIZA had a secret plan to lead the country out of the European Union, outside the euro area, out of the euro zone. And throughout the previous phase of the tough negotiations, when we had received a folk mandate for this, their strategy was on the one hand to say that we are driving on the rocks of the country, on the other hand to point out that we are retreating towards the requirements of the lenders, a dictator who then also ran the strategy of the parties of Anti-Population and, of course, Mr. Samara's New Democracy at that time. You were completely disproved. Our plan was to claim and bleed, to honor the mandate of the Greek people, for an agreement in the context of the unfavourable ties in the European Union. And, of course, you are coming back today to this strategic gap and the deadlock, because today you obviously cannot count on SYRIZA to have a plan to get out of the euro and, even as a party of the Anti-Population Officer and, indeed, representing a party, which was an entirely government party at the place, I repeat, solidate an alternative proposal. When SYRIZA from a party of 4% rapid increased his election rates and his dynamics in society, you had all the powers that you currently form the main panel of opposition - then government forces - a key criticism: that we cannot become a governance party, because we are a party of protest. In your speech, Mr Mitsotakis, you have demonstrated that you are in danger of making the New Democracy protest party. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] No positive suggestions. I tried to understand what your alternative to insurance is, which you too, I imagine - so you said at least last time - you adopt the assessment that it must be made sustainable. What's your alternative? We have, of course, heard the argument, which I think not a single small child can believe in this place that the country's insurance system has come to an end in the last few months. Of course, you all want to forget that for decades now the insurance funds have been looted by the structured bonds, by the deposits at the Bank of Greece, the Stock Exchange, the destructive PSI, waste and mismanagement. And the insurance policy, because there was a government that said 'we will negotiate hard'. This, however, is the main myth on which you build your arguments a year and a half now, a myth that has been frustrated by the same elements, not predictions. And here's a lot of difference. You compare forecasts. And you know, predictions, sometimes fall in sometime, don't fall in. However, the assessment of the past cannot be controversial and questionable. So Eurostat itself - and not the creative statistics, but Eurostat - is saying that what you were accusing of negotiating, leading to deadlocks and destroying the economy, has finally given us 1% more surplus than the target, when you left in 2014 the country - which you were talking about success story, then - 1.3% outside the target. Money which, of course, you would be invited to pay with new measures. You also told us - if I understood correctly - that the alternative that your party has for insurance reform is the zero-deficit clause, that is, the total reduction in supplementary pensions, the private pillar. And, of course, I wonder if what you are proposing, not only for the insurance but also for the country's exit from the crisis, you have the courage and the courage to say it courageously. Because - if I understood correctly - what you are proposing as an alternative, it is the cost cuts. What do you mean, though, cuts in expenditure? Make it a little more specific. You ask for cost cuts. I obviously don't think you mean ruthless expenditure. So you're talking about wage cuts and pensions - the main pensions, because you've got them written off anyway - and redundancies. It's them. What else? Are there any other cost cuts? You mean that, but you don't dare say it. You blame us for opportunism - you are the ideologist - and that we have no ideology. You're asking for elections. Your right is to ask for elections. However, asking for elections without an alternative proposal or to the extent that your alternative is the continuation of disastrous horizontal cuts in wages and pensions and you have nothing to add, each one of us can understand the reason why you are asking for them. Obviously not to bring something better for the place. Only as a joke can I take today's interview with your Vice-President, Mr. Georgiades, that you will renegotiate, bring an agreement. Bring a deal! Unless you want to convince the Greek people that the best way to negotiate is to accept the views of the hardest of the lenders. So why are you asking for them? Rather because you have a misfortune to save some of your friends who have been persecuted, some struggling publishers, canalarchs, who see their destruction, not the country, but the system of power and interlocutory that they have built for so many years, Mr Mitsotakis. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So you tell us opportunists and without ideology. At the same time, you tell us that we are ideological leftists, who do not want investment, privatisation, the programme to which the country has committed itself. Finally, you have to decide. You cannot tell the single days that we are driving the country outside the euro and even blaming the President of the Republic and the even days that we sign it all and have kneeled down to the lenders. You cannot tell the single days that we are class apostates and the scales of ideal leftists. So to answer you, what we are and what we are doing, we are determined in every way to re-establish Greece on its feet and to break this abscess of interlocutory that has been running the country all these years and which has led him to bankruptcy. We will do that by every means and in every way. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] But, Mr Mitsotakis, you referred to your speech - and I think that this is a point of view against the citizens' democratic choice - with the term 'historic accident' in the rule of the left. And I am talking about a dismantling of the democratic choice of the citizens, the many, who were once here in the House a few months ago, you said 'an impeccable majority'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u825	That's not what it was said, but that's all right. You've confused faces.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u826	All right, Mr. Mitsotakis, you can answer. If you want, you can have a second. You have, however, described a historic accident that the Greek people have made their choice in three elections, along with the European elections within a year and a critical referendum. But what is the poaching that you are constantly committing in your political speech, in your rhetoric? In a magical way you forget the fact that elections took place in September after the agreement. And you always come to compare SYRIZA's election announcements when he asked for a hard deal with the lenders last January. And you don't do it accidentally. Today, indeed, in a revulsion of your speech, you spoke of improper elections in September. Obviously for you it is inappropriate when a political force that has the responsibility of governing the place wants to be honest with the Greek people and the citizens. This is unnecessary, for you have become accustomed to lying and perversion. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We, ladies and gentlemen, have honoured the first mandate, which was the mandate of tough negotiation, to the extent that it did not take. And as soon as we reached an agreement, we had honesty, honesty, democratic equilibrium to say to the Greek people: 'This is what we have achieved. We did, and that's what we did. Come and judge us." And we asked for his approval, his mandate. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Gentlemen of New Democracy, listen to me. Forty-five minutes, your Chief was talking. Too much attention! You may be disturbed, but that's what parliamentary dialogue has. Listen carefully.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u827	Be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u828	So we asked the Greek people's mandate to continue with a great effort with the same objective: to set the country back on its feet, to get away from the comitology that the bankrupt governments of the old political regime have put into us and to get out of the crisis. You keep talking about the language of truth, and I wonder, which government would you dare? We had first elections with'money there', a memorandum. No thoughts of appealing to the People's verdict. The same happened with the second one. We have, however, taken this political option and asked the Greek people to admit that we did not achieve what we would like, but by telling him that we now have an agreement, which, despite the fact that it is difficult, can be implemented for the first time without condemning the economy in the recession and society in a lasting hostage. Our commitment to the Greek people in September, a few months ago, was that we will implement this agreement, but we will not retreat to new irrational requirements, that we will protect, by exploiting the flexibility that this agreement gives us, those social forces that have lifted up for five years alone the burden of the crisis, the pensioners, workers and workers, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized farmers, the unemployed, the young scientists. These are the social forces that we seek to represent. These are the social forces on which we are relying. Our commitments to these social forces, to give budgetary difficulties and negative correlations in Europe, have kept them and will continue to respect them. We have already managed to protect the first home effectively, the borrowers who saw their income depleted during the crisis, and this, despite your initial and on your days - you know it - the persistent position of lenders for complete liberalisation of auctions. This was a position that you accepted at the end of your government and you signed without reservation. We have managed to extend the programme to tackle the humanitarian crisis. We have given free access to health to over two million uninsured fellow citizens. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We have speeded up and extended the programmes to combat unemployment. We have improved the functioning of the control mechanisms, despite the fact that there is an even greater effort needed. We finally let justice breathe and started putting order in the broadcasting landscape, and let us cost this daily political cost, with the extreme attack on lies and the extreme propaganda of the systemic media against us. We dismantled the major infrastructure projects, which for five years spurred debts and new obligations for the Greek State, the major road axes, the metro of Thessaloniki, the TAP pipeline, the expansion of the rail network in the Peloponnese and northern Greece. Today, with the insurance bill, we have a basic commitment to go ahead with this necessary reform for the insurance system, without reducing even EUR 1 in basic pensions and without charging the vast majority of pensioners for a tenth consecutive time. That is what we committed in September, and that is what we achieved after a difficult and hard battle and negotiation. I would remind you that when this bill was tabled, you spoke of unilateral energy, of negotiation of the Baroufakis type, which will lead us to the extremes, precisely because we brought to Parliament a bill that does not reduce pensions. That's your problem! That is your concern that we will not reduce the main pensions. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] There is no one in this country, ladies and gentlemen, who do not know that our Government has not taken up duties in the blanket. To raise the burden of responsibility assigned to us by the Greek people, we had to deal with two sides of one growing from 2010 onwards. First, the state of the economy and society caused by voluntary acceptance by previous governments of aggressive and lasting austerity. Let me remind the House that those who accuse us of storms, tax and tax raids, voted on both arms of a total of EUR 63 billion from 2010 to January 2015! That was the 2010-2014 financial adjustment. In 2014 alone, the year of success and the triumph then of Mr Samaras, the measures implemented were 10 billion euros. 25%, 1/4 i.e. the Gross Domestic Product was lost by the cumulative burden of the measures and the recession. Unemployment in 2009 from 7.5% was launched close to 28%. For young people he touched 60 percent and dared some today, destroying and risking that we destroyed the economy, dismantled the country, dismantled the insurance policy and wondered. Which country did you live in all the previous years from 2010 to 2015? Which governments were you ministers to? To mountain governments, to socialist governments that gave benefits to the people? Like you've already forgotten your criminal choices. But your people remember and know who he really is, who is responsible for what we live to this day. The second aspect of the problem. The fact that beyond the already grim situation there were commitments made by the Greek state signed by the then government of New Democracy - PASOK of Mr Samaras and Mr Venizelos. This has to be made clear: Our government has not only undertaken tasks in an economic and social desert, it has also undertaken tasks in a sedative and undermining field, because it has had to overturn and reverse everything that the PASOK and the New Democracy governments have signed or signed. It had to overturn first of all your commitments to primary surpluses and even stablely 4.5% of GDP. We did that. We have reduced the objectives of the programme and for the first time we have a sustainable perspective. We saved from this 20 billion for the Greek economy within the period 2015-2018, 20 billion, which obviously if we assume both of your proposals and your positions for cuts in expenditure, that is, if you stayed in the governance of the country, they would come out of the taxpayers' pocket, pensions, salaries, redundancies and fall into the debt bucket. You agreed and considered that - I remind you at the time when you were saying that you were working and implementing 10 billion measures - which are effective and sustainable. Because as far as I remember, from this step, the former Prime Minister never stopped talking about debt sustainable, which does not need relief, only a certificate of viability was said at that time. To give us a certificate, to be happy. Especially on the question of insurance, the commitments you made, but commitments that inflamed the country, were painful. They were the commitments of the fifth evaluation - do not forget this infamous fifth evaluation, which has never been carried out - mainly by all the application of the zero deficit clause, which, as I said before, would wipe out all supplementary pensions. So we have come to the need for and the obligation to social and national, to take the chestnuts out of the fire that you have been burning and going up all these years. It is, of course, certain that the insurance system needed a deep incision, because it is an irrational, socially unfair, dashing and customer-friendly system. Only the IKA reminds you that at the moment it has nine hundred different insurance packages, and at the same time it is a system that does not respond to the country's current economic situation. After the recession of the last six years, it is impossible to survive without a deep reform. A reform that you have never made but horizontal cuts. On the contrary, your logic was contagious. Eleven horizontal cuts. Neither one, nor two, nor three, nor the result, obviously, was the massive poverty of pensioners and an unsustainable insurance system. Our political choice lies right on the reverse. The plan that we are voting on today aims to create a system that, on the one hand, will be sustainable and will guarantee pensions for all Greeks and Greeks, for all citizens, and on the other hand, will have a basic principle of social justice, given the difficult economic conditions. We are therefore moving on to reinstate the insurance system on tracks of sustainability, without reducing the main pensions for the tenth time and without affecting the vast majority of the subsidiary. For in the vast majority of pensioners, the fearful people who have seen twelve cuts with the "say, say" and the propaganda's headlines, there has been the impression that another one is coming. But for 92.5%, for two million and a hundred thousand pensioners, one euro is not cut off from their pensions, and this is the great conquest of the negotiating effort we have made. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Do you remember what you were telling us in the election September? Whatever the government is going to be forced, you said, whoever the Minister of Labour is, to cut the horizontal pensions to 30%. Today disprove once again. In fact, in how many controversy you burn, it is a question of course. Because the evidence is vague and proves that the bill provides for better replacement rates for all pensions for those with an average income in their working life of up to EUR 1,000. You're saying it's very little. But do you know that this corresponds to 87% of the employees and about 90% of the self-employed and unfortunately 99% of the farmers? We are therefore bringing about a really necessary reform, trying to divide the burden on those who can bring it up and not on themselves, on the pensioners and on the weak, by creating a single insurance body, the uniform rules for calculating contributions and pensions, the introduction of a national pension to which the payroll will be added. Because I saw you paraphrase what I said in my speech to the parliamentary group. I compared what would happen to the farmer, who, in ten years' time from now, would be entitled to the pension of EUR 0 basic and only the reward and would receive a pension of about EUR 250. I said that the amount of the national pension would be added so that it would have a pension of more than EUR 600. I compared EUR 250 to EUR 620 and said: 'Yes, it can be a decent choice of EUR 620 instead of EUR 250'. So this is a huge attempt here to create conditions of social justice within a difficult, in fact, budgetary policy, which we are forced to do, due to the fact that you have reduced GDP by 1/4, and therefore expenditure as a percentage of GDP for pensions has risen to 17% and when you have 17% of pension expenditure, then you do not have the opportunity to support the social state, the hospitals, health and education. Of course the solution is to produce wealth and regain GDP, which you have lost for the country in the past five years. At the same time as this reform, we harmonise the rules on contributions and benefits between new and old insured persons and the individual funds and restore chronic distortions and long-term injustices between insured persons. There has been a lot of talk about freelance professionals, where in fact there is an increase in income. There is an increase, however, for 10% of the free professions. For 90% that were insured before 1993 and have a net taxable income of up to 13 000 per year, the situation is as follows. Their monthly insurance contributions of up to EUR 150 per month are reduced for both old and new insured persons. The most characteristic example of this case is that with the new system, a free businessman insured from 1-7-2017 who is on the lowest income scale will pay EUR 87 a month instead of EUR 210 a month that would necessarily pay today. Let me give you another example, which concerns the engineering industry, my profession. A new engineer after 1993, for ten years of insurance, with an income of EUR 7,000 today, paid EUR 576 a month. The new system will deliver 232 euros a month. To reach the EUR 576, it must have more than 17 000 net taxable income. Because in all the professions there is the great majority that says a few, because it works in precariousness and in the blocks, and of course there are - I am not saying, they have been pressed - who can bear weight. Otherwise, the pensioners and the weak would pick it up once again. That's our difference. I would also like to refer to special attention to young people who are in the first steps of professional careers. The bill provides for a transitional period for deductions to insurance contributions for the critical period of the first five years of their professional life. Finally, for engineers, doctors and lawyers, this will now apply. By 2021, for income from EUR 7 000 to EUR 13 000, that is to say, 90% of the self-employed, there will be a 50% discount on contributions and therefore a relief in relation to the current contributions, while an income of EUR 30,000 will be provided for a 32% discount. So their indebtedness over today will exist, but it will be small, it will be minimal. Let us not forget, of course, - I mentioned before - the great majority of my colleagues in the new engineers, lawyers, who are often working in these "ladys" offices. Their employers were, of course, the first to protest on the tie. That's good. People went to protest once. It's not bad. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] But be careful. Workers, black-block scientists will only pay 6% of the contribution and 20% of the employers. So let this specula stop in relation to the contributions. The government and the Ministry of Labour have done everything in our power to ensure, I repeat, the majority of scientists and free trades. But of course, when you want the equation to come out and you want to favour the majority, you will unfair the minority. But it is not an ignorant majority in this place, Mr Mitsotakis. He understands who we are working on and who we are trying to favour and facilitate. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] The same rules apply to the tax bill. In addition, there was close cooperation between the Ministries of Finance and Labour, so that the interventions in insurance and taxation could be combined and the final result of taxation and insurance contributions would be favourable to low and medium-income incomes. The tax bill comes to meet the criteria of progressivity and fairer burden-sharing. With our intervention, 98% of taxpayers will have a minimum burden, or even a relief from what has been the case to date. Nine out of ten free professionals will now pay a lower tax. The same applies to 71% of taxpayers with gross income from wages and business activity. It is worth mentioning that there is an attempt to restore to the place and a timeless injustice, and even at a time when we have a huge demographic problem. Because it's become a presumption of having over two children at the place. With our proposal, 61% of the third and polytexts will pay a lower tax than he paid to this day. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to tire you with numbers. But I felt the need for this terrible distortion and propaganda of days to speak with numbers today, just before a critical vote and when the Greek people are watching us. But I will not go through my speech on these, because I think it is time for us to finally talk about the next day. To talk about what will happen after the completion of the evaluation. For the possibilities and prospects that this country has. You know, that's the main issue from now on. Our political opponents will understand that they are wrong, I hope they understand it soon. They are consumed in dangers and catastrophes. We have no reason to follow them. Let us move forward, we have other priorities and let me talk about them, because during the last few months the Greek Government has been working on two fronts. One is the negotiation, for which I have been placed on several occasions, both myself and the ministers. The other thing, however, where we have worked and continue to work, is a plan designed with specific lines of action. A project that has already been implemented and will certainly accelerate its next evaluation. The priority of this project is for Greece to pass through the period of extreme recession in a period of recovery and development. Watch out, though, and here may be another difference we have. Not of any development, because there is that development based on the collapse of work and the social state - and that is the neoliberal plan that you are adopting, Mr Mitsotakis - and there is, of course, development with a social dimension, with support for competitiveness through innovation and quality, with the protection of the work and the conquests of workers. With an increase in wages and Community benefits, the first chance that this will be possible. With the support of the purchasing power of the social majority. This is our plan and this is our political horizon. You wondered how did we manage to catch the surplus of 1% above the target? It was the first time, after five years, that they did not decrease to the place by name, wages and pensions. This shows that the way out of the crisis is to stimulate active demand and not to cut costs, namely wages and pensions, which is your alternative, Mr Mitsotakis. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We will not, however, fall into the same mistake, however, to adopt the perception of the success story, constantly talking about the well-being of the numbers. Because if the welfare of numbers is not in line with the well-being of people, then we have a hole in the water. The development which, based on the Commission's forecasts, comes in a few months' time - second half of 2016 - will have a social value. I'm explaining. Greece is a country that is able to produce new wealth. In order to do this, it must have a strategy which will form an environment which is favourable to both attracting investment and protecting work. The existing development tools must be fully exploited and exploited. We worked on a method when you said we were destroying the economy and we were able for the first time, the country being the first to the absorbance of the NRP, 98% of the available resources last year. In the same direction we will continue this year, with an emphasis on innovation and guided by the knowledge and appetite of thousands of young people who attempt to be inclined to work, their appetite for creation. At the same time, we have close cooperation with the European institutions to make use of the Juncker package and to specialise in the actions of the European Investment Bank. Also for the first time after a decade, the European Development and Reconstruction Bank, EBRD, will return to Greece in order to contribute to the recovery effort. A few days ago the draft of the new development law, which has already been put into consultation, was announced, a law that shapes the framework for an investment activity on solid foundations. It is favourable for the great investment that the Greek economy and our main concern for attracting them at the moment, it is to read, listen to the pursuits of businesses and investors. The conclusion is that what constitutes the basis for a firm investment project is something beyond the Greek lined-up, that is, the reduction in both labour costs and the tax rates of large companies. What is of top importance and is a matter, is the stable tax environment and that is what companies are asking for. That is why with the new development we are proposing to introduce a fixed tax rate for twelve years to those who make investments of more than 20 million. I think that such moves may send a message to those who see Greece as an important investment opportunity, not to speculate but to create infrastructure, which the country so needs and of course to reduce unemployment. This is some indicative of the preparation and dialogue, which must also be launched in Parliament for the new era and the next period. I think they will offer good service to the place, those who are really interested in making suggestions, thoughts and improvements in the course of things the next day. I would like to say at this point that we must insist on the way in which wealth and jobs are produced, rather than retracting bankrupt positions, such as the one to which the International Monetary Fund has repeatedly referred, but also here in Greece and the New Democracy and BSE. Because if the solution is redundancies, that is to say, a hundred and eighty thousand civil servants are fired and the state should be charged with several billion for compensation, and if this is a strategy to attract investment, then something is wrong. What's wrong with it, and it's not right, it's obsessed. I am not referring, of course, to the need to rationalise the functioning of the state, its structures, its employees. I am referring to a neoliberal obsession for redundancies, which has never been beneficial to any development effort. On the contrary. The redundancies are making the unemployment burden even greater. So let us put aside the obsessions and see the real challenges and suggestions that we have at the table for the next day. Because the streamlining of the state that will contribute to the development of the Greek economy is not achieved either by adjectives or by failed neoliberal recipes and redundancies. We have received a state that is certainly not our creation. It was a creation of your governments, Mr. Mitsotakis. Of course he needs a reform plan. He wants to erupt the abscesses of corruption, he wants hard treatment for those who operate as the Trojan Horses of interests within the state structure, he wants to use the new technologies, simplify the procedures. In other words, it wants a redefinition of the principles of functionality and respect for the citizen. To go ahead, however, this plan is a basic condition. Who will prepare it and who will implement it. What leadership is it that can take on this case. Here I think there's another difference beyond our ideological ideology. In order to be able to proceed with such a project and implement it, we need an honest relationship with the citizens, a relationship of confidence. This relationship of confidence cannot have the old political system, which has unearthed both the corruption and the complexity of the state and the inefficiency of contact with the citizen. You can blame us for a lot, even for not having the experience. But you can't blame us for one thing. That we are the ones who created all of this, that we are the ones that incubated the relationship between corruption and interlocutory. You cannot blame us for the inequality of our intentions, to bring about a substantial change in this place. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So our aim is now that we go through the hardest cavo, look at tomorrow. And, as the poet says: 'the future will not come from itself like this, neto stead'. We need to work, plan, vision tomorrow of memorial Greece. The next day it wants stability, security and social justice, but it also wants determination for large sectors in the economy, in the state. And let me say that this is neither a neutral nor a moderate political approach. It's a radical, Dimitris, and a left approach. Because in today's difficult conditions, left and radical, it is not to fantasize an ideal society, which you know is no matter how much you fight it, it is not easy to come, but to bleed to create, even slowly but firmly, the conditions in which changes in the protection of the rights of the many can thrive. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Politicians who will open streets for the forces of work. But there can be no way for the forces of work if there is no work at the place. This is why a left-wing, progressive policy nowadays is the one struggling to create jobs and to share the burdens and the benefits of expected growth fairly. I want to close, ladies and gentlemen, with a reference to what is happening these days, these days: most economic analysts say that the Greek economy can be like the spring that has been compressed six years and now it is ready to eject. But we all know that's not a simple thing. It is a function of restoring the climate of confidence of investors, markets and citizens themselves to the Greek economy. This restoration inevitably goes through courageous decisions and with regard to the debt issue. So I would like to say, today with caution and without great words and drumming, because a very complex and difficult negotiation is under way, just to say that tomorrow is a very important day. After six years of European institutions constantly convening to discuss the Greek crisis and discuss only austerity measures, tomorrow Eurogroup will meet on a daily agenda and the relief of the Greek debt. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] What has been a promise for so many years, tomorrow, is officially on the agenda. Honestly, I do not know - I say this sincerely, Mr Mitsotakis - what the Anti-Population proposals and yours are on this crucial issue. I'm open, if you like, to meet, to talk. Perhaps it would be worthwhile, instead of keeping such a contradictory and miserable attitude, to tell us your suggestion of this crucial subject. What I know, however, is that it is a good thing for the country that this debate begins and the government line is not what the previous government had, Mr Samaras, with Mr Venizelos, namely that the debt is sustainable and all we need is a certificate of viability. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I do not want to talk at this point about a number of important statements by European officials who have shaped an unprecedented climate of support for Greek positions in recent years. What I said proves this, that this is the first time since the crisis started, since 2010, when Greece seems to have so strong alliances in Europe and that the Greek positions have so strong supporters. However, I would just like to refer to a statement, because I believe that it is of special interest, because it is not a declaration by a Portuguese, French, it is a statement by a German and not by the opposition, by a high official, by the Vice-Chancellor of the German Government, by Mr Gabriel, who said yesterday in 'REUTERS' that he must finally break - and now is the time - this vicious circle. He said that Greece needs debt relief and that since we know that it is going to happen at some point, it makes no sense to avoid it. He also stated that it is a great mistake to ask Greece to meet its needs with new austerity measures, especially now that it has achieved better economic growth than one could expect. I hope and hope that this constructive position and attitude will be taken tomorrow at the Eurogroup and Germany's Finance Minister, Mr Symble. In any case, however, we have an important opportunity before us both for the country to break this vicious circle, finally to enter the virtuous circle and for Europe to demonstrate the courage and courage needed to close a deep wound and finally to begin the final exit from the crisis not only for Greece but for the whole of Europe. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] He needs boldness and braveness like the one he shows today and the majority of our National Representation will show. We started a course to get the country out of the deadlock in which prior governments convicted it. We raised our head, we loudly called the right of our people. Now that it is time to see that this trouble, this struggle has not gone lost, it is time to continue with more confidence. We are at the most critical point. We stand up, protect the weakest, pass the difficult cavo, come out in calm waters and we all start the great struggle together, rebuild on solid foundations of social justice and advancement tomorrow of our country, tomorrow of the Greek people. I am sure, ladies and gentlemen, that we will succeed. Better days come and they deserve our place and our people!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u829	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Mr. Mitsotakis wants to make an intervention. Mr President, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u830	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u831	Mr President, I could not begin this brief speech without making a reference to the initial position of Mr Drasakis. Mr. Vice President, obviously you are so unknown about the meaning of the truth that you have been forced to "gogle" to see its real definition, because you have not been serving it through your policy for years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u832	Don't be alarmed, so you can listen with caution.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u833	You know, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I, too, 'gogle' SYRIZA and the Thessaloniki programme came to my attention. Strange things happen! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You have used, Prime Minister, the term "surgery" and you have wondered what in our political speech is a smuggling. So let me tell you what is a smuggling, Mr. Tsipras. Smuggling is to provoke a referendum in defence of the "OH" and three days later to turn and fight for "NEI". This is a poaching! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It is a slap to promise farmers a few weeks ago that you will not tax subsidies and bring an amendment to the last minute, with which to tax them. This is a smuggling, Mr. Tsipras. Smuggling is to promise a tax-free 12 000 euros, when you received it on 9,500 euros, to introduce a tax-free 9,100 euros and then come after - again with last-minute legislation - to get it down to 8,600 euros. This, Mr. Tsipras, is a smuggling. To be quite clear and not to be involved with definitions. Mr Tsipras, I was surprised - and you are an engineer, I imagine you have a good familiarity with mathematics - but some of the things you said today do not make much sense. You said that '98% of taxpayers will have no extra tax burden'. But at the same time you will also get EUR 1.5 billion from direct taxes, and I wonder. What exactly math are these? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You have obviously forgotten about the permanentisation of the special levy, which you have already added to the income scale, which you have not said a word about, and you are forgetting of the indirect taxes, for which you have not said anything at all today. It's the new package of measures, which you'll be bringing soon to the National Representation. The indirect taxes you know very well that they are primarily burdening the weakest, those who you are supposedly defending with your own policy. I now come to the issues relating to the insurance system. You said, Mr Tsipras, that you 'increased the rate of replacement with the arrangements you entered'. Here, in fact, I am surprised that I am reading the letter sent by Mr Tsakalotos to the Eurogroup, which he says: 'Reform of pensions currently under discussion is radically confronting the viability of the system, offering the same rules for all pensioners and reducing the rates of replacement'. So what's going on, Mr. Tsipras? Will you make it clear to us, please? Since you have also referred to the red loans and the protection you provide in the first place, I would again remind you of what Mr Tsakalotos writes in the letter, which he sends to his counterparts. I read: 'The latter include opening up the market as a whole' - take note of the market as a whole - 'non-performing loans, NPLS, except for some temporary protection of loans related to first residence'. Decide, Mr Tsipras, when you say the truth, if you say the truth in this Chamber, or if you say the truth, when you communicate with your European partners. I wonder. You have today made strong criticism of the free traders, who seem in some magical way not to understand everything you say to them. Why is all these people on the way? Are they all big businessmen, mechanics? Why have you succeeded and put all the free professionals across from you, if what you say is true, will the vast majority of the free professionals not go further?I would ask you to answer that, because unfortunately, the facts do not support what you are saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u834	Mr President, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u835	I shall conclude, Mr President, don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u836	Why two minutes, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u837	Don't complain, please. The two minutes I added them after the end of the first three minutes. You don't see well. It wasn't just two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u838	You also made a reference to discounts for new freelance professionals. But you're kidding, it seems! A cash facility that will be called to pay with interest, will you come and sell it as a great service? Nisafi now! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You also spoke of the primary surplus and of the government's great success in achieving a primary surplus, in contrast to the primary surplus that we have achieved. Let me make it clear to you, then, that the primary surplus that we achieved, Mr Tsipras, in 2013 and 2014, have achieved by reducing the due amount, by reducing the tax rates, and we have achieved it by granting a significant amount to support humanitarian aid. You have achieved a primary surplus, increasing dues, increasing taxes and limiting the social dividend for social policy. This is, indeed, the big difference in the way in which you and we have achieved the primary surplus. You have again referred to the budgetary objectives and the fact that you have reduced the objective of primary surpluses. Mr Tsipras, what is missing from you is the fact that in the two years, in 2015 and 2016, we have lost as a country as a whole with your policy of EUR 21 billion in GDP. The more we are in a growth orbit, the easier the primary surplus is achieved. Proof of what I'm saying, is that you need measures of 12 billion to achieve a primary surplus smaller, while we needed a little more than a billion to achieve a greater primary surplus. This is our big difference, Mr Tsipras, but this economic reality seems not to be understood. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I shall close, Mr President, so that I do not get far. Debt, indeed. You said that, for the first time, the debt issue is on the agenda of the European debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u839	Promise.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u840	You're not telling the truth. I read a communiqué on 12 July 2015 of the Summit: "The Euro Summit recalls that the Member States of the Eurozone have adopted a remarkable package of measures in support of the sustainability of Greece's debts, which has smoothed the path of debt service in Greece and significantly reduced the cost". The promise of a debt reduction has been made since November 2012. This promise is coming and you are buying it by eight billion meters. This is the big difference, Mr Tsipras. You come and buy something very expensive which, unfortunately, already existed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u841	Be quiet, please, so we can finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u842	I come to the last point, which concerns the sustainability of the debt. Mr. Tsipras, the debt has become unsustainable by your regrettable failures, and that is something...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u843	Amazing!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u844	Don't rush, ladies and gentlemen, wait for you to listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u845	Please be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u846	Mr Tsipras, I will present to you - Mr President, listen to this, because it is important - what you said in June 2015, the official text of the Greek Government. It is your text, Mr Tsipras. "It is clear that the insufficient implementation of the policy and the uncertainties of the last few months" - this June 2015 - "have made the achievement of the 2012 objectives impossible in any case. The main factors which led to the deterioration of the debt sustainability analysis are the reduction in economic growth,..." - you have caused it! - "The revised course of the primary balance,..." - You caused it! '... the lower revenues from privatisations and possible additional financial needs of the banking sector'. You yourself, the same as the text you have tabled, have confessed that the debt has not been made viable! You yourself made the debt unsustainable! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u847	Mr President-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u848	Mr. Mitsotakis, it really is worth discussing and exchanging arguments but I think that when the Chief of Officerial Opposition comes to the House to convince the Greek people that a government that went the debt from 124% in 2009 to 180% in 2014 and an insurance system which was looted for forty years is not the fault of a few months because it was negotiated, Mr. Mitsotakis, not even the magician Houdini could do such tactics and say such things to the Greek people. Solve credibility with what you're saying. Solve credibility. I really want to give you substantial answers to what you have said, because I think that these arguments do not stand either in an audience debate, which does not need to have an image from the economy or from the statistics. Mr. Mitsotakis, you implemented a policy that charged the Greek people 1/4 of the Gross Domestic Product. You ruined it. You looted it. The measures you have taken were EUR 63 billion and you voted for them over the last few years with PASOK. You are talking about the measures that we take. In fact, in a difficult negotiations, we have reached a border point. We had a compromise and we made a deal. It is an agreement, however, that can give prospects of exiting the crisis. This agreement is being implemented and we have EUR 5.4 billion in front of us for the three-year period and not EUR 12 billion, as you say, who obviously do not hide your desire and your joy, to add the preventive measures that the International Monetary Fund wants to impose. Obviously we have an unprecedented support from all Europeans, and unfortunately not from you. You're constantly referring to this number. You're talking about the primary surplus. The primary surplus, Mr. Mitsotakis, which we managed, in conditions of economic destruction and dismantling, was 1% above the target. You left 2014 with a deficit. You had an obligation to reach 1.5% and it was 0.3%. This means that the country would have the obligation not only to meet the commitments for primary surpluses of 3.5% and 4.5%, which are less, but according to everything that has been seen in the light of publicity and which was about the negotiation and positions of lenders - which would certainly not be more dire, if you continued - to speak of unspecified measures of EUR 5.7 billion for 2015-2016, plus EUR 2.2 billion of the deficit than the surplus that you did not achieve. But because it does not really make sense to shoot the citizens with numbers, we must finally turn to a page and look at reality. The country has a chance of getting out of the crisis. The possibility of the country getting out of the crisis is to leave this vicious fiscal cycle, to start producing, to stop treating the Ministry of Finance as more important, but the Ministry of Development and Economy, and that requires a solution and a positive decision on the debt issue. Mr. Mitsotakis, don't disguise yourself. I said before that this is the first time that after a long time we entered the agenda, the agenda, the debt debate and you came to tell me 'no, we made a promise in November 2012'. Question one. So since you made that promise, why didn't you make it and did not implement it? Why were we left in the promise, the promise, the promise and the debate did not finally come to the table? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Question two. So since you have had this promise and which you would 'utilize', as would growth, as you would have brought surpluses, which you did not bring, why did Mr Samaras then keep saying that debt is sustainable? So he was canceling the promise you made. That is why the promise has never been made. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Mr Mitsotakis, in my speech I gave you an opportunity to talk about the crucial issue, not to identify yourself with extreme views and positions in Europe, which they say never to discuss this critical issue and to support a national effort. I have already invited you, if you wish, because these issues are crucial and delicate, to speak together. But you are insisting on a miserable opposition, a opposition rhetoric of the protest. It's not worth turning it into a protest party, Mr. Mitsotakis. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I conclude by saying this: All this time there is an unprecedented attempt to create the feeling that SYRIZA, the SYRIZA Government - ANEL, I personally, the ministers are not telling the truth. Why? Obviously because you compare the election period of “15, when we asked for a tough negotiation. You can blame us for fraudulents, not that we did not honour the order and we lied, Mr Mitsotakis, and you blame us by comparing the January 2015 to 2016. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Mitsotakis, gentlemen of the counterpopulation, listen up. It's not bad to hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u849	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u850	You're constantly bringing these comparisons over and over again. You forget, however, that the Greek people judged both our agreement and our effort and our honesty. We went to the elections having at the table in September this agreement. Since you cannot omit this fact, you are constantly doing a creative accounting with misleading figures. Now that's what you're doing. You came here to tell me that I am speaking more to the House and more to the Minister of Finance in his letter to the Eurogroup, because I spoke about the increase in the rate of replacement, speaking of the national pension, and Mr Tsakalotos spoke about the reduction in the percentage for the payroll. If you add the replacement rate to the national pension, it is 38.4% and 46%, it goes to 84% cumulative. 84% as a replacement rate is one of the biggest today in Europe, Mr Mitsotakis. [[Noise - protests in the Chamber]] One of the largest today in the whole of Europe.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u851	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u852	I know that's what bothers you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u853	You double the national pension! Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u854	I know that's what bothers you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u855	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u856	Double count! Good!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u857	So I close by telling you this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u858	You don't even understand what you're being written!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u859	Be quiet. Don't revolt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u860	I'm closing, telling you this. If there is even one in this Chamber, who can substantiately prove that it could bring better insurance reform and, above all, better for weak popular strata, for pensioners, for low-paid people, for those with low incomes, than the one we brought today, to come and prove it. Here we are, talking about numbers by tomorrow. When you're obligated to put the insurance system back on the tracks of sustainability, you have to choose where to share the burdens. We have therefore chosen not to divide the burdens on those who in the last six years have suffered twelve continuous horizontal reductions in their pensions. So we chose to do something that, when I asked you for a consensus, Mr Mitsotakis, was not you, Mr Plakkatakis - many people told me that what I want really is to square the cycle. But, today, we are bringing about an insurance reform, without square the cycle, which does not have a single reduction in the main pensions and which does not have a single reduction in the vast majority of supplementary pensions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u861	Please! Be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u862	I'm closing, telling you this. The primary surplus that we brought, Mr. Mitsotakis, is over 1% of the target - because some people speak here and say "the NSA, what happens with the NSA".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u863	It's 10% to 30% C.E.S.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u864	Don't be in a hurry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u865	Stop the interactive function!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u866	The primary surplus, namely EUR 1.7 billion - because that means 1% above the target - is not just a few figures. Of course they are numbers, but these figures show that we have the possibility of this 1,7, not giving it as you did, which you gave at the time 300 million to serve your clienteles in a certain proportion of citizens, but that in order for the CSCE, which will gradually eradicate until 2018, should be replaced by the minimum guaranteed income and social policy, which will continue through the humanitarian crisis. That is where the surplus money will go, which we have achieved and not to make a customer strategy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u867	Good. Thank you. For the economy, I should like to tell you three things, colleagues. They spoke a hundred colleagues this weekend and fifteen Ministers, Deputys, Vice-President, etc. Now I would suggest that Mr Michaloliacos should speak. I would ask you to incorporate the time - that is, to speak more - Mr Panayotarou, to speak for six minutes and to close Mr Katrugalos for eight to ten minutes. Thank you very much. Just a minute, Mr. Michaeliakos, until those who are to leave, and then you have the floor. You're very welcome, you short-live. Those who are to leave and those who are to stay in the Hall. Well, the President of the People's Association - Golden Dawn has the floor for twenty minutes, as well as taking Mr Panayotarou's time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u868	Maybe I don't need him. I guess I wouldn't even need a minute, but because the Greek people are watching us, so I feel obliged to speak alone. I would first like to say that I have followed the speeches of the Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, and Mr Mitsotakis and heard voices, but I have not seen any concern about the application of the Code of Conduct for Members. It would be more honorable, then, to call this Code of Conduct, "Code of Conduct for Golden Dawn only", for the Golden Dawn that on May 6 - two days ago we had 6 May - 2012 the channels of "pimps" - which you have not yet managed to control - had spread a veil of sorrow, because the Golden Dawn was in the House. You've been fighting for four whole years all parties, all channels, all fliers to stop the Golden Dawn. But the Golden Dawn is here, whether you like it or not, because the Greek people want it. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] I would also like to respond to demonisation in an elegant way, as much as possible, on nationalism and the Golden Dawn. You're all coming from a party. One is the party, which Georgios Papandreou, honored in the House, had called "a party of crime and treason". You also have a room in which you tour the students, the room "VENIZELOS". You do the trouble of giving them, sharing the law with them the peculiar name Venizelos had done for the communists. But that's not what you want to hear. Also once the party was not one, it became two. Most of the people of SYRIZA come from the so-called Indoor CCD, where they had their seat in a very democratic country in 1968, in Romania, in Tsaucescu, where children were dying in the hotbeds because they were closing electricity! Of course all of this can be omitted and represented by the ultra-democrats. You managed to enter the House Hall for the restoration of order men of the Security Corps. Watch out, as you do, if men of the Armed Forces enter. Because that is where your inconsistent and inconsistent policy leads. Storm storms and you may reap storms. In essence, with today's insurance bill, you are doing nothing but repeat the previous government's commitment to the lenders, to the troika, in view of the meeting tomorrow, Monday. More specifically, according to the figures of your former colleague and Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Metropoulou, from the UNHCR, this automatic budgetary cut has already been voted on, namely the law we are debating today, has already been passed. It's in particular the n. 4270/2014, which even provided for the implementation of this precisely this month, in May 2016. So why do you bring the same thing back? For a very simple reason. For the reason that the lenders also want to take the assurance from you that you will respect what has been agreed with the troika. So you're genuine all the time as far as the Memorandum is concerned. The Prime Minister also said earlier that pensions are not cut. According to the official figures of the General Accounting Office of the State and its No. 141/16/2016 report, it launches the actual pension cuts for the three-year period 2016-2019 to the sum of EUR 8.2 billion, while in the agreement - as you called the third memorandum, you called it an agreement for crop reasons obviously - 1.8 billion cuts for the insurance system had been foreseen. Therefore, it is not a negotiation but a fourth memorandum in substance and as in all the memoranda, so the Golden Dawn will vote "NOV" and resist in the name of the Greek nation. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Mr Mitsotakis, before addressing the Prime Minister and the Government, said 'Let you leave immediately for the unnecessary measures'. No objections. But as far as 'necessary measures' are concerned, I think that the whole policy of his party does not necessarily consider them to be unnecessary. On the contrary, he has voted for them and supported them. Furthermore, we do not forget in August 2015 in this Chamber, when the New Democracy voted your memorial with warmth and with the phrase "go the deal in order not to leave the euro", they claimed, "your own account the measures". Still Mr. Tsipras, addressing Mr. Mitsotakis, said: "What do you want? Cost cuts? Dismissals?’ Finally, the left in the client state is not innocent. It has been co-governing essentially since 1974. Through local government bodies and by means of acquaintances and by infiltration, admission, if you like, of incomeism, to use the trotsky language in PASOK, many had also been appointed from the left.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u869	And of those who are upstairs, half of them!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u870	Please, Mr. Kegeroglu!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u871	I don't disagree, dear. It is a fact, as Mr Kegeroglu said, that you are becoming more and more PASOK. That's a fact. This enlargement is not only about your policy, since you have strongly embraced social democracy with the patriarch of this gallery, Mr Schultz, where you are also taking part in the meetings of the Socialist International parties. So cost cuts. Should we fire civil servants? Have the courage, gentlemen of the New Democracy, to say things by their name. In 1994, there was a law, the ASA, the Pepponi Law. From 1994 to 2016, twenty-two years have passed and have been unlawfully appointed hundreds of thousands of party subordinates of PASOK, New Democracy and the Left, as I told you. They found the way, had the means, found open doors to both New Democracy and PASOK and were appointed. This would be very important in order to remedy the economic problem of the country. It is a strife between Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Tsipras on debt relief if Mr Mitsotakis does not want the relief that Mr Tsipras wants. In essence, no one wants relief, no Europeans want it. Relief can only mean one thing: it is the haircut, which we accept. We accept debt write-offs, appeals to international courts, and it is that of the Golden Dawn. But Christine Lagard herself and leading players in European policy were very clear. They don't talk about haircuts, they're talking about prolongation. To understand what prolongation is, a historical example: The debts of the race, the debts we received in 1821, we paid off in 1970. By analogy, you may also consider it economic success to succeed in elongating the Greek people's debt and paying for a hundred and fifty more years. "The state is not our creation," said Mr. Tsipras. No, it is also your creation and the fact that it is your creation - Mr Kegeroglou's intervention was very topical - is shown by the fact that you have reached the point of tabling a special amendment in order to keep a trade unionist known for his struggles at PASOK, who is now in SYRIZA. You've also inherited executives and SYRIZA's election client, and look at how you'll take care of them. That's the reality. Don't pretend to be the rebels you supposedly came to hurt the old-fashioned. You're always genuine. As far as his nationalism and demonization are concerned, because I like to speak with lyrics, especially those you have disappeared from school books, I will remind you of Kostis Palamas "Wolves". "Bossians in the yard. The wolves! The wolves! Calamari and municipality and Bolsheviks. For the sake of empty and desolate use of vegetarian works.' If Palamas lived today, you would call him fascist, you would call him a golden man, for he had the courage to say these things and speak directly. But let's say a few words about how we got here. Because it is a given fact that this insurance bill, which is fully in line with the whole philosophy of the memorandum, is the end of the social state. Social state! If I tell you who did the eighth hour you will tell me: 'But he was a fascist, he was a dictator'. Uh, yes, John Metaxas did. He did the eight hours, he did the leave, he did the Sunday holiday. What can we do? He did it. So the social state, which has the task of helping the helpless, ends it with the following logic: what you give, what you get. How is it possible for the funds, however, to be given when the client state of those forty years plundered them and allowed these funds? I will give you an example. The reserves of all the insurance funds went to the Bank of Greece at 0% interest, at the same time as banks received for consumer loans and for the famous plastic money interest rates of 30%, thus being the banks with the highest profits throughout Europe. Can we talk about the Stock Exchange? EUR 143 billion was lost on Mr. Simitis' Stock Exchange, selected partners of which are very close to SYRIZA. Rejoice them. But in New Democracy, some are approaching. Looks like it's a very powerful club. Generally there are strong clubs in Greece. Today's Prime Minister, for example, is from the Communist Youth of Greece. The last one was American college. Next, if New Democracy comes first and forms a government, it will be from American college. Finally, it seems that Prime Ministers in this country are coming out of the American college and the CNN from nowhere else. We also had the Stock Exchange, for which, of course, it is not just the PASOK. The advisor and close associate of former Prime Minister Antonis Samaras, Chrysanthos Lazarides, who was writing and saying that the Exchange will reach the seven thousand units. Today it's about five hundred so many. He'd reached all four hundred and fifty. All together, they were eaten on the Stock Exchange, and that is why the Stock Exchange was never raised. Should we talk about 2004, where Greece had become a whole construction site? Can we talk about the black spots then, in all these works and foreigners, but also Greeks and super-profits? Every MP of that period had appointed up to his last nephew at the Athens 2004 Agency with salaries of 3,000-4,000 euros. So why wonder how did we go bankrupt? The final nail in the bankruptcy coffin was the PSI, which did not bother the previous government, to exclude the insurance funds - it was about EUR 27-28 billion from the haircut and to say that this is workers' money and you should not touch them. As it did not exclude, of course, the microbiologists, whom it literally smashed, people who had put their life savings in the healthiest, in a national, state bond. An irreversible state, which recognises the right of the speculator from City of London or Wall Street, to not be a haircut to his counterpart, but does not recognise this right to Greek microbiologies, who have already appealed to the European Court of Justice and are sure to be entitled. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have a lot of information here to say about the extermination, the literality, which is being done to the free traders, to small and medium-sized enterprises. Two hundred and fifty thousand small and medium-sized enterprises have been closed in the years of the memorandum. What else do you want to understand that the memorandum is death for Greece? It's the tombstone of our national economy. On the other hand, you of SYRIZA are complaining. You think you're still opposition? Didn't you realize that you've been a government for sixteen months? You denounced the New Democracy because it made the law with which it deported those bankers from their criminal responsibilities for party loans. Why haven't you changed the law for sixteen months? Why didn't you change a word from the so-called Memorandum, which you would abolish, toss it, toss it, to pieces it, to send it to the unspoken? As we are going, therefore, a solution within the given economic situation and with these crows of the international financial system, there is no one. In August 2015, I said clearly that if the dilemma is "euro or Greece", we clearly say "Greece" - and repeat it. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] I would also like to say that in the years of the memorandum, we have seen less and less euros become in the enclaves of the Greeks and less and less Greece within the Greek state. That is why we will vote against the insurance bill. That is why we will be opposed to the ethnic policy of the memoranda, which you continue as a genuine continuation of old-fashionedism and the customer state of forty years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u872	Mr Michalolikakos, I am obliged to respond to the historic restoration because thousands of people and especially younger people are possibly listening to us. You understand and you know that neither of my position nor of course we have any ideological controversy. I would like to tell you, however, that the leadership of the Inner KEI, fighting against fascism and the junta - and there are names and books, if you don't have to see them - was half of the first days, with the three trials of the RIEGA, in prisons and then with the trial of the respective leadership of Drakopoulos, Parcalidis, Philine, also in prisons and the other in the islands and illegality. This was the headquarters of the Interior JRC and I am very sorry that in her name, obviously, you have also referred to verbs from Papandreou and so on. And I'm telling you, I don't want to make an ideological, general controversy. Uncircumcisedly you mentioned that the seat was in Romania in Chuchescu.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u873	Let me give you a reply. Of course some of this party also found - and I honour their struggles and sacrifices - in exile, but the headquarters of the Interior JRC and that power supported by the Interior JRC was Tsauscu's Romania. You can't question that. He had friendly relationships.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u874	I question it directly. And here I would ask you to stop this conversation in the name of many thousands of people who have fought against fascism, the dictatorship, the junta. Tomorrow we also have the anniversaries for Europe's liberation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u875	Forty years you've been selling this. That's enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u876	Sell what, Mr. Michallachus? Read books, at least, if you have not experienced them, even though you know them, you are not young.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u877	I've lived through them, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u878	You've lived it, yes. It may be your ideas with the dictatorship, but that doesn't play any role. It's your political position.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u879	Didn't I live the dictatorship? I'm born in December 1957.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u880	You can't say about those who struggled that they had their seat outside. It's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u881	But that's where they went. When the break-up took place there, they went.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u882	They didn't go. The division took place in Western Europe.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u883	In Tashkent...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u884	In Western Europe. What Tashkent? You've been messing with me forty years ago. Let's not have this conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u885	If I have flaws in the history of communism, forgive me. I'll be trained accordingly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u886	Please. At least study your best and dissatisfaction to influence it on historical elements.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u887	Palamas, Papandreou and Venizelos had said that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u888	I said we wouldn't make that confrontation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u889	Good. Your wish is respected.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u890	Because we have followed a civil and our duty here is that there should be neither social nor civil policy in the future.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u891	I fully agree, but you are not following it right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u892	After the sayings you said, a civil society followed. Greek history isn't annoying. You know that very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u893	It's a big conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u894	Mr. Poppa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u895	It is a great debate, but at the funeral of Palamas the Athenian people were gathered and listened to Angelos Sicilianos saying that "in this coffin Greece is touching". And then the slogans against the Nazis and the Germans broke out. That is the indiscriminate historical truth and we cannot falsify it. Democracy is big-hearted, it is tolerable and must always show its reflexes, protect historical memory and not let new generations be poisoned by fascism's poison. I'm starting from here. I shall be very brief and thank the Bureau for the opportunity. I want to stand up very briefly to a very important distortion that the New Democracy, which is about the full day's school, does, as is customary, make. The New Democracy has claimed that we are abolishing it. Not at all. We're generalizing it. All primary schools will go to school at 13.15' and then, at noon, in all schools will be available this week, which are enriched with an optional, open program, as is currently the case where piloted, until 16.00', for all students who, in our understanding, are no more than customers of the system. I'd like a minute for matters of my competence. We are ready, ladies and gentlemen, to initiate the tender procedure for television licences. The consultation procedure with the notice has been completed and many ideas have been heard, which are incorporated into the notice. Very soon, then, Greece will have a new television scenery. Very brief reference, as I have to say, will be made to some legislative interventions that we are taking into account the consultation procedure. First, the price of each licence may be paid in three equal instalments. This is clear that it will facilitate participation and increase the final price. And secondly, the implementation of international accounting standards will begin on 1 January 2018, because of course we have not mobilised the existing stations at all, but we are taking every care, so that they are not wronged in relation to potential new entrants. There are also two important interventions, which, in my broad sense, relate to my own competence, but mainly to the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. For the first time, a bar code is entered in newspapers and magazines. Knowledge of the place that this will give a very important opportunity, so that there are no grey zones in circulation. Secondly, everyone is obliged to provide information on the cost of tenders, which are contained in the newspapers, and I think we all understand what this is all about. I think that a very important effort should be made to put the debate in a context. And I say this because in order to follow the argument of the New Democracy, it must have a very short memory. To have the oblivion, not the truth. Forget the September elections. To forget the New Democracy's commitments, as they emerged not from their programming speech, but from its signatures in the fifth evaluation. To forget that the relevant Head of Division said that this agreement ends supplementary pensions and mainly forget - and I will be very brief - the September elections. Why should the September elections be forgotten? For they highlight the structural difference of our party from New Democracy, which was elected by the "Zappeia" and dealt with the "no sinless" and the Memorandums. We, for what we have achieved, asked for the approval of the Greek people. We asked the Gentile negotiating mandate and in September we asked the people to decide on the outcome of this negotiation and to choose the government with which it will go. It must have another gift for anyone who tries to decodify the strategy and the policy of the New Democracy. And this gift is to be able to explain magic, because the New Democracy claims to have fewer measures, while it had agreed more than 20 billion. Let me conclude, Mr President, by saying this: the Greek people have realised from the tons of confrontation that another agreement would have a New Democracy government, another agreement has with a SYRIZA - ANEL government. And this will be realised by those who have uploaded the machines and who work on them in the ful and they will burn in the heat, because they did not calculate when they pressed the gas that the evaluation is closed, that the Greek people will realize that by negotiation you can claim and win and that the period when Greece was slain and uragos in Europe and I was just begging. Greece currently has alliances, it causes developments and forms the conditions for the formation of the Europe of the next day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u896	Last speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u897	No, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u898	There is no 'no', Mr Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u899	It recommends an amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u900	What amendment? He recommended it. You've been given since yesterday morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u901	We have intervention in this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u902	You did. Three times you've spoken. Because Mr. Pappas wasn't here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u903	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u904	So?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u905	He speaks politically...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u906	It's good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u907	...and opens a new round of discussions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u908	No, he didn't open anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u909	New round of conversations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u910	No new round of discussions. On the other hand, there is no round of discussions. Mr. Katrugalos has the floor to close.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u911	We're not closing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u912	We'll close. Why don't we shut down?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u913	We have issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u914	Don't vote for it. So, what happened? You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u915	I'll make two second speeches before my main body of dentistry. I would point out that a word has been received, the word'mediate' after the word 'equivalent' in the amendment we tabled and numbered 73A. Please fill in. May I add to what the President of Parliament and the previous speaker, Nikos Papapas, said about Palama, who was, indeed, a popular and national poet. You know that Nikos Zachariadis with pencil wrote a literary criticism entitled "The true Palamas". In fact, however, Palamas had written this verse 'coffees and goats and bolsheviks'. However, Varlanes answered him with a less well-known verse, referring to the 'lyrics' of the previous verse of the same poem. He writes, then, Varnalis: "Save of the saliva was shattering the baby poets the wolves." But let us now move on to less poetic and pedestrian things. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS KREMASTINOS, takes over the President's seat.]] I will not go into all the inaccuracies which have been heard, some of them without intention. From the JRC, for example, I have heard that we are reducing the percentage of state funding from 17% to 6.5%. The truth is that 17% is the total of social security expenditure, including contributions. On the contrary, with the Reppa Act, only 1% are foreseen as a State obligation in the context of the tripartite state funding. We 1% are doing this 6.5% for national pensions and with the overall guarantee provided for in Article 2 we also cover deficits, which, as I said before, are, unfortunately, still at giant levels. Other reviews in the bill were not well - placed. I heard things that from a simple reading of the bill it turns out that it is not the case. For example, I have heard that we are reducing disability pensions, while all we do is keep the status quo exactly as it is recorded, so that we can change the legislative framework within this year through the committee's legislative work, in which both the ESDP and other representatives of the disabled will participate. I heard a continuation of the saga that we did not submit proportionate studies, and I have also tabled the proportional viewpoint and the other studies already in the committee. I have heard, for example, again this lamentation of the death of the small grocery store and small café, while I have repeated many times that, under Article 40(3) of the bill, we have retained the same conditions as before in the OGA insurance for small-scale owners in these shops. I could go on. One last example, however, I will say. Comparisons are made with the minimum pension of EUR 486, with the national pension that we are introducing. Let me tell you first - firstly - that the national pension would not be EUR 486, but because it corresponds to the fifteen days of the unskilled worker, and that you have already greatly reduced it in the first four years, it is EUR 392. Secondly, national pensions do not play a minimum role. It is never paid individually, on which the rest of the pension is built. That is why what the Prime Minister said, namely, that when we talk about replacement rates, we should not only refer to the payroll but to the total sum of the national as a reward. Furthermore, even the basic pension provided for by Law 38632010 would not have been as it was heard 360 euros but through the remodelling-adjustment mechanism provided for by this law, it would already be 341 euros, much below what we are planning, therefore, for the fifteen years of insurance. The point is, however, that we are attempting a major change, contrary to the general trends that exist in Europe, of neoliberal logic which introduces either a capitalist directly or an identifiable capitalist system, but with an emphasis in any case on economic criteria and not a social dimension. They asked us if we were satisfied with the EUR 384 in national pension. Of course we are not satisfied. That is what we can give, but today, given the poorening of Greek society, given that the national wealth has been lost and given that we have received a dissolved insurance system. EUR 384 today is the poverty line. What we can do right now is share in a fairer way a smaller pension pie. And obviously there are responsibilities for poverty. It's not a result of natural disaster. Indeed, the responsibilities are multiple and do not only concern the conclusion of wage earners and pensioners with EUR 37 billion over the period 2000-2013 or the short-term conclusion of the funds with the mismanagement of the reserves and the final hit with the PSI. The responsibilities of the old-fashioned political system are much wider and heavier, because through this peculiar state-owned and climatic capitalism we reached the 2010 crisis or at least greatly aggravated the consequences of the international crisis for our country of 2008. Of course, we heard the claim from both New Democracy and PASOK that as SYRIZA made the debt unsustainable, and SYRIZA made the insurance unsustainable. I don't have to remind you of all the numbers here. For example, in 2010, as I said, 6% of GDP was deficits. They increased by 50% between 2010 and 2014 to 9%. I don't have to tell you these. As long as I ask you this, gentlemen of the counterpopulation. Mr. Brutsis and Mr. Loverdos assure us that the system had become sustainable, due to the 2010 reform. Mr. Yannissi, who didn't call him but the river said exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u916	But you accepted him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u917	Who do you believe in? And here there is a difference between the style of Mr Mitsotakis' position today and the one we heard in the pre-dated debate on insurance. There, wanting to introduce a reformist and self-criticist, he even referred to the cover of Mr Yannissis' book, wanting to accept the professor's claim, with which I do not share his view on how the system should be reformed, because our reform has the social dimension that was missing from his proposal, but his knowledge of the real economic size is undeniable. I would like to say to you that it is not a symptom that the President of the New Democracy is differentiating. The tactical dualism, which the Prime Minister spoke about, actually reflects in a duplication of ideological, a soul-set in the New Democracy. The New Democracy is like a 'Jan', the one person of whom is purely neoliberal, such as its new leader, the other person is old-fashioned, what I described earlier as bearing responsibility for the crisis. It is precisely the reluctance of the new President of the New Democracy which of the two persons to raise, that proves this internal contradiction. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Give me two minutes, Mr. President. But I think that the neoliberal character of the New Democracy's proposal is seen by this statement about a 'true majority' that its President did on 29 March 2016 and which I also noted to mention independently of the Prime Minister's hint in it. I am also sure that Mr Mitsotakis does not remember this statement, because it is purely fascist lapsus, that is, a phrase that escapes the conscious control of what makes it, precisely because he is incriminating him. It reveals a hidden thought of him. And what's Mr. Mitsotakis' hidden thought? The one who told us about the class hate that has been hidden and the protection of the weak, in fact the protection of the majority of the Greek people. If we match the fact that he considers class hatred the fact that we are protecting the blocks and not their grandchildren, that he considers class hatred to protect the majority of the Greek people, since he considers it to be an improper majority, we understand the essence of the political conflict between our own social perception and the perception of neoliberalism. We're with the many, the ones with the few. The ones with the elites, the ones with the people. In the face of this not only are we in Greece, we are also in Europe. We are at the moment institutions of a different perspective for Europe as a whole, where we have forced the European social democracy to be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u918	Mr President, the Minister has spoken a hundred times!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u919	You may know that there is already an expression in Brussels' s arc and in the books of political science, 'pasokification'. What does this expression mean? Do we remember the song Red Hot Chili Peppers 'Californication'? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, "Pasokicification" - "POSOKIation" is what happens to a social democratic party when it is absolutely identical to neoliberalism.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u920	Minister, please speak to the bill!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u921	He's on his way out. At the moment, the prospects of social democracy in Europe, as we see in Portugal, show that there may be a different orientation of social democracy if it does not want to have the fate of PASOK. Finally, at the moment with this reform, we are changing the insurance system in Greece, bringing about a decades-long intersection that the country needed. And at the same time, we are making our contribution to how a country can be a social country in a social Europe. Two last things, because I want to put them in the Minutes. Apart from general policy, we are also interested in the management of micro-reality, micro-corruption in insurance systems.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u922	Minister, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u923	I shall conclude, Mr President. So I'm making two check orders. [[At this point, the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr Georgios Katrugalos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] These two control commands, therefore, concern corruption in the country's insurance system. Financial control is still under way, so I can't speak for sure about scandals. One investigation, however, concerns micro-corruption, one single one which was either given in order that did not correspond to the priority or to beneficiaries who did not have the right to do so. The other survey concerns the debts of shipowners at the NAT. The total of the two cases is EUR tens of million. This is as a sample that we are not only intending to change the architecture of the system - we in Europe are trying to insist on social and redistributive nature, indeed ensuring the highest rates of replacement - but also on micro-management, we will try to have a clean system, what the pensioner needs and what the pensioner deserves. Finally, I would like to make a reference to staff in the reference to the President of the New Democracy again in my professional activity. And last year, the President of the New Democracy accused me of the same reason, of my professional activity as a lawyer, which I had previously taken active political responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u924	Did she lie? It wasn't an accusation! He said the reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u925	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u926	Last year he blamed me for the very opposite thing, namely that I served through my ministry's policy the interests of my clients, now blames me for the fact that I supported different opinions. Both are completely inaccurate. I've always been on the side of the weak, and I've never been in my writings. What I defended at that time is what I am now defending rules for the welfare state and not rules such as those which your own reform had introduced.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u927	Please, Minister, complete your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u928	I present in the Minutes the copy of the newspaper "THE VIMA" admits that the slander for me contained inaccurate and untrue. [[At this point, the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr Georgios Katrugalos presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[TAKE PAGE 607a]] [[TAKE PAGE 609a]] [[TAKE PAGE 611a]] [[TAKE PAGE 612a]] And as I say to you, we must have politicians who are self-creators, renowned in professional space, not just to have politicians who are the origins of great political dynasty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u929	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u930	Mr President, I protest!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u931	Mr. Loverdo, what's going on?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u932	Mr President, following the debate now at the level of the Prime Minister's party leaders, the debate has made sense to the extent that Mr Papapas is proposing an amendment - right and we have to say to him, if he can do one or two interventions in his amendment - and to the extent that the Minister responsible is taking action in his draft law. The political debate on the major issues has been completed and reopens it in a way that goes without saying. Mr President, equality of arms is your responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u933	What do you want, Mr. Loverdo?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u934	It's your responsibility to equalise arms. I would like to draw the inappropriate attitude of the Minister responsible for social security and ask you, since there is a corrigendum to the Pappa report, to close with it. But not to open a new cycle of controversy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u935	Good, I agree. The debate is then declared in principle, on the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: "The Single Social Security System, Reformation of an insurance- pension system, Income Tax and Gambling Regulations and other provisions" and their vote will be taken separately. An application for a roll-call vote by Members of the New Democracy Parliament has been submitted for the vote of the bill on the principle, the text of which is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u936	I will also read out the list of signatories to request a roll-call vote in order to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Ioannis Brutsis. Abstentions. Mr. Vassilios Economou. Here you go. Mr. Athanasios Bouras. Here you go. Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazides. Here you go. Mr. Emmanuel Consolas. Here you go. Mr. Georgios Georgios. Here you go. Mr. Apostle Vessiropoulos. Here you go. Mr. Christos Bukouros. Here you go. Mr. Evangelos Bassiakos. Here you go. Mr. George Kumoutsakos. Here you go. Mr. George Vlach. Here you go. Mr. George Vagionas. Here you go. Mr. Dimitrios Stamattis. Here you go. Mrs. Lightning Arabaji. Here. Mr. George Stylus. Here you go. Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos. Here you go. Mr. Theodores Fortsakis. Here you go. Mr. Stergios Giannakis. Here you go. Mr. Ioannis Antoniadis. Here you go. Mr. Andreas Katsaniotis. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for the roll-call vote of Members of the New Democracy. A request has also been made for a roll-call vote in principle, on Articles 4, 7, 16, 22, 39, 40, 95, and on Amendment No 421 and a special 16 by Members of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, the text of which reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u937	I will read out the list of signatories for a roll-call vote to see if the number required by the Rules of Procedure is available. Mr. Nikolaos Michaloliacos. Here you go. Mr. Ioannis Aivatidis. Here you go. Mrs. Salvation Vlacho. Here. Mr. George Germenis. Here you go. Mr. Antonio Gregos. Here you go. Mrs. Helen Zaroulia. Here. Mr. Panagiotis Iliopoulos. Here you go. Mr. Evangelos Karakostas. Here you go. Mr. Elias Cassidy. Here you go. Mr. Nikolaos Kouzilos. Here you go. Mr. Dimitrios Koukoutsis. Here you go. Mr. Ioannis Rabbit. Here you go. Mr. Nikolaos Michos. Here you go. Mr. Constantine Barbarousis. Here you go. Mr. Ilias Panagiotaros. Here you go. Mr. Christos Pappas. Here you go. Mr. Ioannis Shahinides. Here you go. Mr. Christos Hadjisavvas. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure to request a roll-call vote of members of the People's Association - Golden Dawn. Also, for the vote on the bill on the principle, a request has been made for a roll-call vote by Members of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR, Potamos, as well as by the Independent MEP Leonida Gregorakos, whose text reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u938	I will also read out the list of signatories, in order to determine whether there is the number required by the Regulation for its submission. Mrs. Christophilopoulou. Here. Mr. Jelephus Michael. Here you go. Mr. Maniotis John. Here you go. Mr. Arvanitides Georgios. Here you go. Mr. Koutsoukos Yiannis. Here you go. Mr. Kegeroglu Vasiliou. Here you go. Mr. Kremastinos Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Loverdos Andreas. Here you go. Mrs. Kefalidou Hara. Here. Mr. Constantopoulos Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Pssarian Gregory. Here you go. Mr. Gregorakos Leonidas. Here you go. Mr. Venizelos Evangelos. Here you go. Mr. Barriots Constantine. Here you go. Mr. Papatheodoros Theodore. Here you go. Mr. Ahmet Ilhan. Here you go. Mr. Constantinople Odysseus. Here you go. Mr. Scandalidis Konstantinos. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for the roll-call vote of Members of the PASOK - DIMAR, the River, and Mr Leonida Gregorakos. Also to vote in principle on Articles 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 14, 27, 28, 29, 35, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 44, 48, 51, 56, 74, 75, 84, 92, 94, 96, 97, 98 and 113 and on Amendment No 421 and a special 16 has been applied for a roll-call vote by Members of the Communist Party of Greece, the text of which is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u939	I will then read out the list of signatories to request a roll-call vote to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Koutsoubas Dimitrios. Here you go. Mrs. Papapaiga Alexandra. Here. Mr. Bardale Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Giokas John. Here you go. Mr. Delis John. Here you go. Mrs. Canelle Liana. Here. Mr. Karathanasopoulos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Katsotis Christos. Here you go. Mr. Lambroulis George. Here you go. Mrs. Manolaku Diamond. Here. Mr. Moraitis Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Paphis Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Steerios Constantine. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote of Members of the Communist Party of Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept to compress the roll-call votes on one, so that we can finish faster?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u940	We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u941	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. There will be a roll-call vote in principle on Articles 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 14, 16, 22, 27, 29, 35, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 48, 51, 56, 74, 75, 84, 92, 94, 96, 97, 98 and 113 and on Amendment No 421 and on Amendment No 16 of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: "The Single Social Security System - Reform of insurance - pension system - Reform of income taxation and gambling and other provisions". They accept the principle of the draft law, the articles and the amendment are 'WHEN'. Those who fail to accept the principle of the draft law, the articles and the amendment say 'OH'. The voters say 'PARON'. Mrs Anastasia Gara is on the list by SYRIZA and Mr.Ioannis Kefaliannis from New Democracy. I would also like to inform you that fax (fax) colleagues have come to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, which makes their vote known in principle, on the articles of the bill and the amendment. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u942	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters, which were sent to the Bureau by colleagues, under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, are recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u943	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters from my fellow Members, Mr Nicholas Michou, Mr Constantine Vlassi, Mr Fofis Generations, expressing the intention of voting, have been recorded in the Minutes of today's sitting, but are not counted on the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u944	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned, and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and the result. [[COMMUNICATION]] Until the count is completed, we shall proceed to vote on the remaining articles and amendments. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u945	Acceptable, accepted
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u946	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u947	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u948	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u949	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u950	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u951	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u952	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 2 has been put into roll-call vote. Can Article 3, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u953	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u954	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u955	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u956	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u957	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u958	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u959	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u960	Article 3 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 4 has been put into roll-call vote. Article 5 has been put into roll-call vote. Article 6 has been put into roll-call vote. Article 7 has been put into roll-call vote. Article 8 has been put in roll-call votes. Article 9 has been put into roll-call vote. Article 10 has been put into roll-call vote. Article 11 has been put into roll-call vote. Article 12 has been put into roll-call vote. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u961	Acceptable, accepted
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u962	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u963	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u964	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u965	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u966	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u967	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u968	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Rule 14 has been put in roll-call vote. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u969	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u970	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u971	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u972	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u973	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u974	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u975	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u976	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 16 has been put into roll-call vote. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u977	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u978	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u979	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u980	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u981	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u982	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u983	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u984	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u985	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u986	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u987	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u988	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u989	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u990	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u991	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u992	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u993	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u994	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u995	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u996	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u997	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u998	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u999	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1000	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1001	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1002	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1003	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1004	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1005	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1006	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1007	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1008	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1009	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1010	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1011	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1012	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1013	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1014	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1015	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1016	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 22 has been put into roll-call vote. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1017	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1018	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1019	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1020	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1021	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1022	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1023	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1024	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1025	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1026	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1027	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1028	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1029	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1030	Article 24 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1031	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1032	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1033	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1034	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1035	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1036	Article 25 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1037	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1038	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1039	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1040	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1041	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1042	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1043	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1044	Article 26 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 27 has been put into roll-call vote. Article 28 has been put into roll-call vote. Article 29 has been put into roll-call vote. Does this House accept Rule 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1045	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1046	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1047	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1048	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1049	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1050	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1051	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1052	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 31 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1053	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1054	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1055	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1056	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1057	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1058	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1059	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1060	Article 31 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1061	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1062	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1063	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1064	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1065	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1066	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1067	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1068	Article 32 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 33 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1069	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1070	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1071	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1072	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1073	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1074	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1075	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1076	Article 33 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1077	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1078	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1079	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1080	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1081	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1082	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1083	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1084	Article 34 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 35 has been put into roll-call vote. Will Rule 36 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1085	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1086	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1087	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1088	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1089	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1090	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1091	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1092	Article 36 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 37 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1093	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1094	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1095	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1096	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1097	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1098	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1099	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1100	Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Rule 38 has been put in roll-call votes. Rule 39 has been put in roll-call vote. Rule 40 has been put in roll-call vote. Rule 41 has been put in roll-call vote. Article 42 has been put into roll-call vote. Rule 43 has been put in roll-call vote. Rule 44 has been put in roll-call vote. Does this House accept Rule 45 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1101	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1102	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1103	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1104	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1105	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1106	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1107	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1108	Article 45 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 46 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1109	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1110	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1111	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1112	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1113	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1114	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1115	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1116	Article 46 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 47 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1117	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1118	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1119	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1120	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1121	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1122	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1123	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1124	Article 47 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Rule 48 has been put in roll-call votes. Does this House accept Rule 49 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1125	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1126	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1127	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1128	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1129	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1130	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1131	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1132	Article 49 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 50 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1133	Mr President, Rule 50 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1134	He's not retired, Mr. Katsotis. It appears here that the Minister has amended it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1135	If it has not been withdrawn, I shall vote 'NAI'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1136	'NAH' do you vote? Article 50, as amended by the Minister, has not been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1137	However, it has completely extinguished the responsibility of the shareholders, Mr President. It's completely erased! And what he says is for the Committee. The Committee has nothing to do with the shareholders responsible for the demands of workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1138	But we need to see this from the Minutes. Modified, Mr. Katsotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1139	Then, Mr President, I should like to give an explanation of the Minutes. Because in my view, in Article 50 concerning the responsibility of shareholders for the requirements of workers, it has been deleted and the ESC note which has nothing to do with the original article. That is why I say that after this has been withdrawn, we do not vote for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1140	Mr President, that's it. The article has been amended!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1141	It's been modified. But Mr Katsotis insists. If you do not vote, Mr Katsotis, there is no problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1142	We are not voting for it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1143	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Rule 50. Will Rule 50 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1144	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1145	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1146	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1147	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1148	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1149	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1150	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1151	Article 50 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Rule 51 has been put in roll-call votes. Will Rule 52 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1152	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1153	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1154	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1155	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1156	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1157	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1158	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1159	Article 52 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 53 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1160	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1161	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1162	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1163	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1164	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1165	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1166	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1167	Article 53 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 54 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1168	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1169	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1170	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1171	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1172	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1173	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1174	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1175	Article 54 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 55 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1176	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1177	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1178	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1179	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1180	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1181	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1182	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1183	Article 55 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 56 has been put into roll-call vote. Will Rule 57 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1184	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1185	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1186	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1187	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1188	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1189	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1190	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1191	Article 57 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 58 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1192	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1193	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1194	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1195	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1196	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1197	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1198	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1199	Article 58 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 59 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1200	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1201	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1202	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1203	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1204	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1205	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1206	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1207	Article 59 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 60 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1208	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1209	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1210	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1211	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1212	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1213	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1214	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1215	Article 60 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 61 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1216	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1217	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1218	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1219	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1220	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1221	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1222	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1223	Article 61 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 62 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1224	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1225	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1226	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1227	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1228	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1229	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1230	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1231	Article 62 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 63 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1232	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1233	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1234	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1235	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1236	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1237	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1238	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1239	Article 63 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 64 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1240	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1241	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1242	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1243	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1244	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1245	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1246	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1247	Article 64 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 65 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1248	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1249	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1250	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1251	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1252	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1253	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1254	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1255	Article 65 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 66 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1256	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1257	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1258	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1259	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1260	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1261	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1262	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1263	Article 66 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 67 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1264	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1265	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1266	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1267	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1268	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1269	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1270	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1271	Article 67 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 68 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1272	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1273	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1274	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1275	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1276	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1277	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1278	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1279	Article 68 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 69 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1280	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1281	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1282	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1283	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1284	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1285	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1286	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1287	Article 69 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 70 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1288	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1289	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1290	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1291	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1292	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1293	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1294	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1295	Article 70 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 71 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1296	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1297	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1298	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1299	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1300	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1301	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1302	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1303	Article 71 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 72 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1304	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1305	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1306	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1307	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1308	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1309	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1310	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1311	Article 72 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 73 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1312	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1313	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1314	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1315	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1316	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1317	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1318	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1319	Article 73 has therefore been accepted as majority. Rule 74 has been put in roll-call vote. Article 75 has been put into roll-call vote. Does this House accept Rule 76 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1320	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1321	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1322	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1323	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1324	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1325	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1326	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1327	Article 76 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 77 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1328	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1329	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1330	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1331	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1332	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1333	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1334	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1335	Article 77 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 78 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1336	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1337	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1338	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1339	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1340	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1341	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1342	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1343	Article 78 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 79 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1344	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1345	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1346	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1347	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1348	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1349	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1350	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1351	Article 79 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 80 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1352	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1353	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1354	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1355	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1356	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1357	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1358	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1359	Article 80 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 81 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1360	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1361	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1362	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1363	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1364	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1365	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1366	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1367	Article 81 was therefore accepted as majority. Will Rule 82 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1368	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1369	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1370	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1371	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1372	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1373	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1374	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1375	Article 82 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 83 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1376	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1377	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1378	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1379	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1380	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1381	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1382	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1383	Article 83 was therefore accepted as a majority. Rule 84 has been put in roll-call vote. Does this House accept Rule 85 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1384	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1385	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1386	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1387	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1388	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1389	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1390	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1391	Article 85 was therefore accepted as majority. Will Rule 86 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1392	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1393	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1394	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1395	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1396	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1397	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1398	Article 86 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 87 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1399	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1400	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1401	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1402	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1403	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1404	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1405	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1406	Article 87 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 88 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1407	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1408	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1409	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1410	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1411	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1412	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1413	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1414	Article 88 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 89 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1415	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1416	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1417	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1418	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1419	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1420	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1421	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1422	Article 89 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 90 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1423	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1424	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1425	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1426	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1427	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1428	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1429	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1430	Article 90 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 91 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1431	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1432	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1433	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1434	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1435	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1436	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1437	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1438	Article 91 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 92 has been put into roll-call vote. Will Rule 93 as such be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1439	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1440	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1441	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1442	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1443	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1444	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1445	Article 93 was therefore accepted as a majority. Rule 94 has been put into roll-call vote. Article 95 has been put into roll-call vote. Article 96 has been put into roll-call vote. Article 97 has been put into roll-call vote. Rule 98 has been put into roll-call vote. Does this House accept Rule 99 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1446	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1447	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1448	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1449	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1450	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1451	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1452	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1453	Article 99 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 100 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1454	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1455	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1456	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1457	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1458	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1459	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1460	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1461	Article 100 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 101 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1462	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1463	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1464	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1465	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1466	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1467	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1468	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1469	Article 101 was therefore accepted as a majority. Can Rule 102, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1470	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1471	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1472	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1473	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1474	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1475	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1476	Article 102 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 103 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1477	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1478	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1479	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1480	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1481	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1482	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1483	Article 103 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 104 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1484	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1485	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1486	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1487	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1488	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1489	Article 104 was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Will Rule 105 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1490	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1491	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1492	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1493	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1494	Article 105 was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Will Rule 106 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1495	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1496	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1497	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1498	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1499	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1500	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1501	Article 106 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 107 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1502	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1503	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1504	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1505	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1506	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1507	Article 107 was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 108 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1508	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1509	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1510	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1511	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1512	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1513	Article 108 was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 109 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1514	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1515	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1516	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1517	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1518	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1519	Article 109 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 110 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1520	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1521	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1522	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1523	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1524	Article 110 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 111 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1525	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1526	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1527	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1528	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1529	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1530	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1531	Article 111 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 112 was withdrawn by the Minister. Can Rule 113, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1532	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1533	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1534	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1535	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1536	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1537	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1538	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1539	Article 113 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of Nos 418 and 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1540	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1541	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1542	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1543	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1544	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1545	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1546	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1547	Therefore, the amendment of a general figure of 418 and a special 13 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 419 and a special number 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1548	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1549	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1550	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1551	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1552	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1553	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1554	The amendment, by a general figure of 419 and a special of 14, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of 420 and a special number of 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1555	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1556	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1557	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1558	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1559	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1560	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1561	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 420 and a special 15 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment under a general number 422 and a special 17 as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1562	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1563	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1564	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1565	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1566	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1567	Therefore, Amendment No 422 and Special 17 were accepted, as amended by the Minister by a majority vote, and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment under a general number 423 and a special 18 as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1568	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1569	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1570	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1571	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1572	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1573	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1574	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1575	The amendment under general number 423 and a special 18 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister by a majority vote, and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 398 and a special 2 as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1576	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1577	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1578	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1579	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1580	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 398 and a special 2 was accepted, as amended by the Minister by a majority vote, and is covered by Articles 7, 9, 27, 29 and 35. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of 402 and a special number 3 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1581	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1582	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1583	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1584	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1585	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1586	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 402 and a special 3 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 407 and a special number 6 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1587	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1588	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1589	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1590	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1591	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1592	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1593	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 407 and a special 6 was accepted as it is majority and is part of a special article in the draft law. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 408 and a special number 7 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1594	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1595	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1596	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1597	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1598	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1599	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1600	Therefore, the amendment of a general number of 408 and a special 7 was accepted as it is majority and is part of Articles 7.9 and 27 of the bill. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 411 and a special number 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1601	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1602	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1603	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1604	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1605	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1606	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 411 and a special 8 was accepted as it is majority and is part of Article 102 of the draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1607	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. A total of 296 Members voted at the beginning of the bill. In favour of the principle of the draft law, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against the start of the bill, i.e. 'NO', 143 Members voted. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: "The Single Social Security System - Reformation of an insurance - pension scheme - Income tax arrangements and other provisions" was accepted in the first place by a majority. Article 2 adopted a total of 296 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, 143 Members voted against. So Article 2 as it has been accepted as it is by a majority. A total of 296 Members voted on Article 4. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, 143 Members voted against. Article 4 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 5 has adopted a total of 296 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, 143 Members voted against. Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 6 has adopted a total of 296 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, 143 Members voted against. Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 7 has adopted a total of 296 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, 143 Members voted against. Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. A total of 296 Members voted on Article 8. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, 143 Members voted against. Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. A total of 296 Members voted on Article 9. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, 143 Members voted against. Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 10 has adopted a total of 296 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, 143 Members voted against. Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 11 has adopted a total of 296 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, 143 Members voted against. Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. A total of 296 Members voted on Article 12. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, 143 Members voted against. Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. A total of 296 Members voted on Article 14. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, 143 Members voted against. Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. A total of 296 Members voted on Article 16. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, 143 Members voted against. Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. A total of 296 Members voted on Article 22. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, 143 Members voted against. Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. A total of 296 Members voted on Article 27. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, 143 Members voted against. Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 28 has adopted a total of 296 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, 143 Members voted against. Article 28 was therefore accepted as being majority. A total of 296 Members voted on Article 29. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, 143 Members voted against. Article 29 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 35 has adopted a total of 296 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, 143 Members voted against. Article 35 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 38 has adopted a total of 296 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, 70 Members voted against. (Parliament adopted the resolution) Article 38 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 39 has adopted a total of 296 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, 143 Members voted against. Article 39 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 40 has adopted a total of 296 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, 143 Members voted against. Article 40 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 41 has adopted a total of 296 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, 143 Members voted against. Article 41 has therefore been accepted as majority. A total of 296 Members voted on Article 42. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, 143 Members voted against. Article 42 was therefore accepted as a majority. A total of 296 Members voted on Article 43. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, 143 Members voted against. Article 43 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 44 has adopted a total of 296 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, 143 Members voted against. Article 44 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 48 has adopted a total of 296 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, 143 Members voted against. Article 48 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 51 has adopted a total of 296 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, 143 Members voted against. Article 51 was therefore accepted as being majority. A total of 296 Members voted on Article 56. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, 143 Members voted against. Article 56 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 74 passed a total of 296 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, 143 Members voted against. Article 74 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 75 has adopted a total of 296 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, 143 Members voted against. Article 75 has therefore been accepted as majority. A total of 296 Members voted on Article 84. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, 143 Members voted against. Article 84 has therefore been accepted as majority. A total of 296 Members voted on Article 92. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, 143 Members voted against. Article 92 was therefore accepted as a majority. A total of 296 Members voted on Article 94. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, 143 Members voted against. Article 94 was therefore accepted as a majority. A total of 296 Members voted on Article 96. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, 143 Members voted against. Article 96 was therefore accepted as being by a majority of the members of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. A total of 296 Members voted on Article 97. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, 143 Members voted against. Article 97 was therefore accepted as being by a majority of the members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. A total of 296 Members voted on Article 98. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, 143 Members voted against. Article 98 was therefore accepted as being by a majority of the members of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. A total of 296 Members voted on Rule 113. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, 143 Members voted against. Article 113 has therefore been accepted as majority. On Amendment No 421 and on Amendment No 16, a total of 296 Members voted. In addition to the amendment 'NAI', 153 Members voted. On the amendment, i.e. 'NO', 143 Members voted. Therefore, the amendment under a general number 421 and a special 16 were accepted as it is by a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1608	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1609	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1610	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1611	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1612	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1613	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1614	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1615	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1616	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the Law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: "The Single Social Security System - Reformation of an insurance - pension scheme - Income tax arrangements and other provisions" was accepted at the outset and on the articles. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept here that we shall vote on the bill as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1617	Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1618	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1619	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1620	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1621	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1622	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1623	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1624	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1625	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: ‘The Single Social Security System - Reformation of an insurance - pension scheme - Income tax arrangements and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle, Articles and all of them and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1626	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1627	Therefore, the House granted the requested authorisation. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-08-S1-commons.u1628	With the consent of the House at 1.29' the sitting on Monday, May 9, 2016, at 18.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny, is closed.
