ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction: "National Register of Executives of Public Administration, Gradual Structure of Positions, Systems of Evaluation, Promotion and Selection of Heads (transparency - merit and effectiveness of Public Administration)". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 19 February 2016 to discuss the draft law in two meetings. The draft law will be discussed in the sitting at the beginning. The debate will take place tomorrow on the articles and amendments. Minister, would you like to take the floor at first or after hearing some speakers?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u2	After the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u3	So we are now starting with the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Papaliou. Mr. Papaliou, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u4	How the debate is to be held, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u5	We did. Unfortunately, you didn't listen. It's going to be two meetings. Today, at the outset and tomorrow, on the articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u6	Until what time?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u7	Don't expect me to tell you until what time. So don't waste time. Here, Mr. Papaliou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a common place that public administration in our country suffers to the extent that the great patient in the Greek state is considered. It is also a common place that the rebuilding of public administration is a sine qua non condition for civil service and development. Because, in the face of the neoliberal perception that the public administration must facilitate the private initiative by simply applying what it requires, the public administration must, by the Constitution and also by exercising its effective regulatory role, facilitate private initiative within the framework of the laws and the service of the public interest. The passive structural features of the organisation, the creation and functioning of the public administration in our country, as is admitted over time, are the hydrocephalosis of public services, the functional introversion, the irrational and unequivocal distribution of public administration officials, the centralisation of structures and decision making, bureaucracy, namely a grid of polynomialism, ambiguity, parallel levels and administrative and co-responsibility procedures, which also leads to responsibilities. It is also the lack of qualified staff who meet the current needs, the lack of human resources management policy, customer relations, the partitioning with the strong to the suffocating presence of the political, party class - that is, the great weight of the latter in relation to the misfortune of the administrative mechanism - the partitioning and therefore the favourable treatment of the "days", of our "our own children" and, respectively, the unfavourable treatment of political opponents, resulting in institutional and labour distribution throughout the public sector. In addition, passive structural features of the functioning of the public administration are the creation of a parallel administrative mechanism against the administrative hierarchy, by aggregation of post-engineering officials, the absence of a spirit of civil service and commitment to it, with an introverted spirit, as well as corruption phenomena. In recent years, with the prevalence of neoliberal perceptions and the position of the country under comitology, all of them have been added to the reduction of the institutional powers of the State, its structure and functional degradation as a guarantor of the public interest, the delegation of powers to the private sector, irrational, abusive and even illegal policies to reduce the number of civil servants and their wages, resulting in the expansion of the pathogens of organisational and administrative functions, which have been transformed into a structural crisis of public administration. All of this leads to the conclusion that the public administration needs rebuilding on other bases, in order to get rid of the suffocating embrace of the respective party that assumes governance and self-determination by designing, implementing and controlling administrative policy, is understood in the context of choices of the government concerned. It is obvious that the main pathogenous feature that agitates the public administration is its partying, its suffocating riding by the political-party subsystem, resulting in its conversion into a heated and dry bureaucratic structure without professionalism, social responsibility and motivation. Therefore, any relevant reform cannot produce results if it does not address the problem of partyisation, unless there is a rescheduling of the balance of the political - party element in relation to the administrative, which is in favour of the latter. Only the real reorganisation and rebuilding of public administration can make it a friendly, true servant of the citizen and transform it into an organisational and operational lever of development and progress. Having realised that the country needs a comprehensive, long-term, enforceable and reliable administrative reorganisation plan contributing to the efficient functioning of the public administration as an essential condition for development, the Government has put forward this draft law. The bill meets the constitutional principles of objectivity, dignity, proportionality, efficiency, equality, transparency and participation, as defined in the Constitution. In this context - on the basis of these principles - the following areas are introduced - reforms and new institutional instruments are introduced. First of all, the creation of the National Register of Public Administration Executives from which the members of the Public Administration will be drawn up that will cover positions of responsibility. The National Register of Public Administration Administrators shall include regular civil servants with high qualifications, permanent and private staff of an indefinite class of IP and TE with grade I, with an assessment of at least seventy-five points, of doctoral or postgraduate students or graduates of the National School of Public Administration or head of Directorates-General for at least three years or heads of directors for at least ten years. Others, too, are highly qualified teachers of HEIs, TEIs, researchers, scientific staff of independent authorities and retired persons, graduates of the High School of Interclinic War and the High School of War. The seats of Secretary-General, Special Secretaries and Governors, Presidents of Administrative Councils, Lawyers of Public Law, or of private-law legal persons whose administration is chosen by the Government will be covered by the tank of the National Register of Public Administration Executives. In particular, in this way, the position of the Secretary-General - and I would say that this is a real revolution - is transformed by purely political policy - to date rather party with the role of promoting the party state - to be a leader of the administrative structure, which links the government's political leadership to the administrative hierarchy. Thus, it promotes the emancipation of public administration, the demand and a project of both political forces and the public administration itself. The National Registry shall draw up managers for positions of responsibility, be carried out in a non-binding manner, since the selection shall be done by objective procedures by the Special Selection Board under the auspices of the AACC. Secondly, the section, ladies and gentlemen, introduced by this bill is the new evaluation system. A set of provisions is regulated in a uniform, coherent, equitable, rational and meritable way, both the structures and the work of the public administration and the staff, which is a prerequisite for its proper and democratic functioning. This system provides for an objective and two-way evaluation of civil servants in a way that takes into account both formal qualifications - in particular studies, training and experience/service - and the individuality of the person assessed. The evaluation shall be carried out by the two hierarchical heads, both for the heads and for all their direct subordinates. The evaluation and participation of civil servants in the process of setting targets and in general the functioning of the public administration are aimed at improving the performance of both the public service and the civil servant themselves individually. The imported objective evaluation system, combined with the targeting and objective, worthwhile selection of executives, can make a decisive change in the culture of public administration and its executives with the fight against nepotism and customer relations. The new system is not punishable and is not a pretext for redundancies, as has been done in the recent past. In this context, the consultative interview consisting of a debate between its assessor and his immediate head of authority on how to improve his performance plays an important role. The evaluation criteria are commonly accepted, measurable, objectively and controlled in terms of their implementation, with the sole aim of upgrading public services. This method, in conjunction with the clearly predicted way of classifying the criteria, describes the image of each employee individually and fully illustrates the personal abilities in relation to the tasks to be undertaken. As a consequence, the evaluation is carried out in a way that its results correspond to the principles of equality, objectivity, meritability, in the light of the curriculum of candidates, their formal qualifications, scientific and research work, in keeping with the requirements and tasks of the post, as well as their general personality. The third axis - the section of the bill is the graduation and the promotion system. The rating is an essential organisational element directly linked to the adequacy and effective functioning of the public administration. The current rating has proved stiffer, much more so since it has resulted in a substantial deprivation of the right to raise all staff, a lack of dubious constitutionality. In addition, dependence on client networks and the quota system on stagnation had a catalytic effect, as the new employees were seated in the lower rating categories. Indeed, because of the ineffective construction of this system, in order to maintain the number of officials entitled to apply for a judgment in a position of responsibility were also granted to officials, for example, with grade B, with the result that they would have lowered their ranks. The result was the general decomposition of the country's administrative mechanism. It is therefore proposed that a rating linked to the evaluation system, since, for two years, excellent performance leads to a more rapid development and acquisition of Grade A, which is prerequisite for participation in the crisis of heads, as well as for inclusion in the National Register of Officials. Thus, the public service body regains the organisational basis that corresponds to the aptitude system for the development of civil servants. The system of selection of heads was a timeless field of competition and controversy, since in this field the political system was vague with the Public Administration. On the basis of this unorthodox contact, the administrative services lacked quality, they dominated customers and other networks, culminating in space, which led to the degradation of the credibility of the public administration to the citizens. The time of administrative experience as a criterion for selecting heads gave the option to select a certain number of heads who served in this area for many years, perhaps without special skills. This criterion, with the support of the customer networks, led to the reproduction of specific personnel with specific, outdated mode of action and management of various situations. This bill is replaced by the traditional way of choosing heads from a modern, rational, merited system that enables young and gifted scientists, in particular, to acquire and carry out specific tasks. The criteria for selecting heads are divided into four groups, depending on the level of administration concerned, i.e. standard qualifications, work experience, evaluation and structured interview. Each group of criteria shall bear a specific weight factor in order to assess to a fair, objective and balanced extent. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need two minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u9	Two minutes is a lot, Mr. Papaliou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u10	In particular, for the structured interview and because in the past interviews were a vehicle of favorableness and anxiety, it should be noted that it has nothing to do with the interviews of the past. The system of selection of heads ensures the selection of the most worthy and able to bear the burden of a different public administration. As a consequence, the promotion system is introduced in such a way as to allow for the promotion of younger and more gifted. The fourth and main pillar of the bill is participation and social accountability. The participation of the officials themselves shall be carried out through the convening of the plenary session of the departments and the addresses in which the progress in achieving the objectives to be achieved and set by the Heads in the context of the strategic objectives set by the Minister or the management body is assessed. The participation of users of the public administration and society services is carried out through the hearing of social actors and citizens identifying problems of proper operation or maladministration, through electronic or non-inquiry with which citizens assess the services provided, through the Public Administration Observatory scientifically monitoring the administrative operation and coordination of evaluation procedures. These tools and methods ensure the participation of the officials themselves in the process of planning and implementing the objectives of the public administration, as well as social accountability towards users of the public administration and society services. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill represents an important step towards the institutional reconstruction of the country, which together...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Papaliou, both minutes have passed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u12	...with productive reconstruction, a step has been announced and implemented by the government. The opposition parties are invited to support it, since it is known that the public administration is the great "patient" of the Greek state but also the necessary lever for the development that can and must be cured. We are therefore voting for the bill and we also call on the opposition to vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, too. Mr. Georgios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Transparency, dignity and efficiency in public administration. We must admit that in the titles of the draft laws the government actually marks its intentions. Sadly, though, reading the text of the law does not always lead to this and, unfortunately, lately, it never leads to any necessary elements, in which we all agree that public administration should be governed. Minister, three meetings were held, except for the hearing of the bodies. There has been a substantial debate and issues have been raised. I really think that the parties - all parties - with each other's political head office and ideology have been able to contribute to this. The New Democracy since the first moment - the innovative element of this bill -, which is basically the register of Executive Officers, showed with a sincere mood for cooperation and convergence, so that we can really take a step further to public administration. We told you. We agree to a certain extent on the fact that there is at least a term of office in the public administration, at least in many of them, because we had a disagreement on the position of the Secretary-General. However, we have two very important objections, which we consider necessary to resolve on your own initiative, so that we can move on to the details of the draft law and perhaps get a universal acceptance by Parliament. The first issue, which we have raised and which has to do with your real intentions, was the question of the implementation of this draft law. We cannot say that it is an incision to public administration to select officials from civil servants with a mandate from a nine-member committee, from a selection board, where it has the greatest role to play in the CSCE and this register to establish and start with it to fulfil the government's vacant posts from 31-7-2016 and to become fully operational in the summer of 2018. Why, Minister, if it is a good law, do you not want to start its implementation from now, to start its implementation immediately, gradually, in the next few months? Why, if, in this way, we will have a dismantling of public administration, that leaving it to the next, whoever they are? Why not decide to apply it now? In a month's time, Minister, and disprove me, if I am mistaken, the vacancy of hospital governors and deputy governors will be paid. We're talking about a hundred fifty positions. Why should these positions not be paid through the procedure - with the points we are going to make in the course, as we consider to be the right ones - from this register? Why should the summer of 2018 begin its implementation when one of the terms and conditions for participation in this register is the good evaluation of these officials for two consecutive years? What years? For the years 2016-2017. They will then come, in 2018, the officials who will be assessed in the specific way provided for in the bill to claim these posts. I also asked you a question, in which the truth is that you have frankly answered that, unfortunately, the results are not positive for your Government. The question was this: Can you tell me, Minister, in these twelve months, which you have effectively exercised the country's rule, how many members of the public administration have you chosen on the basis of the conditions, as you put them in this draft law? How many of them are in public administration? How many have they got this grade? How many have these specific degrees? How many have this service time? Tell me how many people have entered the legal persons of public law, the legal persons of private law, the bodies to which the public is responsible. A hundred, two hundred, a thousand executives? I want you to tell me a strain - one, I challenge you - which you have chosen. While you had the option in a bill, which started to be in consultation since December 2015, so in your thoughts it was much earlier - in between you guys covered the vacancy in public directly and while you had the possibility, without the draft law being put into effect, to choose executives from the public administration. No one deprived you of that right. Anyone who wanted to, could actually choose for a final position a member from the public administration. I challenge you again and tell me one you chose from the public administration! Secondly, we have raised a second objection. Why, Minister, can we rule out why we're basically blocking the register...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u15	Tell us where you put it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u16	Minister, you'll get the floor later, I imagine. If he's in the two or one and this will be evaluated. I wait and challenge to listen! Starts December 2015 entered consultation, much earlier it was in your mind and I imagine there were competent officials from the public administration to choose for these posts. The second important issue is this: why exclude the private sector? In my opinion, Mr Minister, I have the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee. I think it is the most documented view on the bill, which has helped all the members of the committee and all the Members of Parliament to assess this bill. There were very good thoughts - the thoughts of the Economic and Social Committee were analysed - which happened to be almost identical to the positions of the new Republic, which had been mentioned in the first debate, which had been preceded. Why do you not take into account the fact that executives from the private sector cannot be excluded? We didn't say it was just from the private sector. But why would it be just public administration? Why cannot this balance be established and this committee can assess, depending on the profile of each position, the qualifications of each individual, whether private or public, and select him for this final position? Why is this possibility only the LPI members, the scientific staff of some independent authorities or some retired persons? Why don't we open it? What are we afraid of? Why would this idea exist? Why not have private sector officials along with public administration officials in a register or in two parallel registers? Why is this committee, in which we have confidence - we all say so, because it is a nine-member committee, which is basically composed of three members of the AACC and in any case has the authority of the AACC - to be unable to choose from this mixed register? These two objections, which have been raised from the outset, with regard to the exclusion of the private sector and the timing of the implementation of this bill, Minister, are objections which have unfortunately not been accepted by you and which do not allow us to have a positive attitude towards the bill. There is also a third observation on the register, which has to do with the person of the Secretary-General: here there is a perception, which is intersectional, let us say because of the ideological view of everyone. We see in Article 6, which describes the duties of the Secretary-General, that it is essentially within the roles of the Secretary-General to oversee the implementation of government policy by the public administration. But this characterization by itself states that Secretary-General is a political person! So we believe - and we put it in this public debate - that only the Secretary-General should be the choice of the government, the Minister's choice. It is the person, which is essentially the link between the government and the public administration, precisely for monitoring and implementing government policy and that he is the only person to follow the Minister. Of course, the arguments about the institutional memory of the public administration in the person of the Secretary-General, we think, are lame. We know where there is an institutional memory in public administration. Minister, in relation to the other parts of the draft law on evaluation, the rating and selection of heads, I do not think any of them present in the Chamber, none of them who participated in this debate in the sense and the impression that we are going one step ahead. We're not going one step ahead. Essentially, we are going back to the presidential decree 318/1992 and at the same time we have new inventions of your own, both in our evaluation and rating and in the list and in the selection of heads, which cannot be assessed effectively by us. For example, this about full-time address and department, which will assess themselves for the work of those who place, I cannot understand, I cannot follow it. I do not understand his practice, his manner of implementation and the purpose he serves. In any case, what has to be understood is that we in the previous bill, which you are effectively abolishing, have given substance importance rather than formal qualifications. The written test and the structured interview, with the conditions we described and had established, thought that they were very much better served by having an image of each employee's qualifications and the possibility or not of serving a particular post. Unfortunately, this attempt was canceled at its beginning. We believe that on the basis of the evaluation system, as you bring it, we will have all the civil servants excellence again, but at the same time we will have a public one, for which the citizens know very well that it is indeed not excellent for the services it offers to the citizens. But what is of great interest, Mr Minister, is the so-called 'other provisions'. Can I say something? It is a pity that, until now, we have only five ministerial amendments that we are talking about. I think it is your negative record with positive, of course, a sign for us and we hope during the debate until tomorrow that we do not have an increase in that figure. However, what has not been done with the amendments to this bill has been done with the other provisions relating to Articles 32 to 55. Unfortunately, these other provisions, which have not been consulted, concern issues that have not been assessed by the General Accounting Office of the State, precisely because, as he notes, the Ministry has not provided sufficient data to enable the assessment of the impact on the budget, and at the same time the Scientific Committee has made many comments on these drafts, which I think at least need to be carried out. I am obliged within the short time to refer to three of these articles. In Article 32 - to which, fortunately, you have made a substantial change, because otherwise it would be really unacceptable - for the first time, the Minister is given a new opportunity to move, to withdraw, without any time limit, without any special reason whatsoever being given to anyone in his ministry or in his legal persons and to place him where he thinks, luckily at the request of the official, which can also hide any understanding. The original text said 'at the initiative of the agency'. If possible at the initiative of the agency, without the consent of the official, without the staff member's request being able to move anywhere! Fortunately, there is only 'at the request of the official', but we still have an unacceptable intervention in a moving system, which is institutionalised, legislated on the basis of specific elements and rules, and now you are violating it. But where there really is one initiative of your own - and I wonder how you have dared and brought it to Parliament - it is in Article 36. In accordance with Article 36, any of the staff members who were to retire for thirty-five years or for the completion of the age limit may request to remain for the following years. And what is the paradox, what is unacceptable? Whether or not the official who is normally retired will remain in his service for one year and then with a second renewal for another year or a third renewal for another year, and only the Minister decides for another year! - on the basis of the official needs, as stated in the opinion and after an opinion - no agreement or reasoned opinion - with the simple opinion of the Staff Board, which was added, was not in the original text. So the Minister will come and decide which of the employees, which of the managers to be retired will remain and who will not.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u17	You haven't read it well!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u18	Minister, you are being held hostage by the officials in this way, yes or no? Do you have the exclusive right to choose those who will remain, yes or no? Are you the one who decides who's going to retire and who's not?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u19	Have a good reading. It's corrected.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u20	Minister, you will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u21	I have read it a lot and you must apologise to Parliament. It's you, every Minister, who decides who will retire and who will not. Where did this unacceptable sound? Shall we go forth or back with something like that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u22	Let's see at the end who's gonna be indisputable!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u23	And, of course, I think - I shall end, Mr President - that you have a last chance - and Mr Vorides pointed it out to you in the previous debates - that you withdraw Rule 48, which is an impediment to judicial proceedings, to disciplinary proceedings. It is a raw intervention without sufficient justification, which leaves you morally unambiguous. You have one last chance to drop it. Ladies and gentlemen, one last word. I'm from the Goddess of Kilkis. Right now, Eduned becomes a symbol of incompetence, irresponsibility and non-responsibility for too many months of immigration policy by this government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Georgioda, please. Your time's up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u25	Don't get upset!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u26	I would like to believe that you will immediately give a solution to this issue which you have created.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, thirteen students and students and three educational sessions from Karousadon University Corfu. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Aivatidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today a draft law on public administration, presented by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL as a rhetoric and innovative, mainly because of the establishment of the National Register of Officials of Public Administration. An evaluation system, a staff rating structure and a selection system shall be introduced, which shall in any case be sufficiently similar to the existing one. The accompanying explanatory statement exaggerates and supports the hydro-heading of public services, functional introverticity, corruption phenomena and partisanisation of the choices of human resources management. Having served as a coroner at the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, always in a battle position, in three different medical services in the country, a total of seventeen consecutive years, I assure you that, by transferring my personal service experience, all of this applies to an overly positive degree. In this explanatory statement, the decisively negative impact of the Memorandum of Understanding on State Services in recent years on their operating costs and on the extermination of the wage reductions of civil servants and officials, who have indirectly affected the service performance due to the problems of the daily life arising from the SYRIZA ANEL Memorandum, which has immersed in frustration and scepticism, even the fanatical voters of the two parties of Congress. A member of staff is not only an employee. He is at the same time an active citizen, with social and family obligations, to whom he cannot respond precisely because of the Memorandum of Understanding policy. The general features of this bill are not left-handed, as is stated by the Co-government, but provide a poorly understood and neoliberal Conservative character and confirm the well-known report of the hermaphrodite honesty of SYRIZA-ANEL's policy of co-government. The implementation of a targeting and accountability system marks developments in which the already targeted average employee will be more targeted and accountable further. In other words, the euphemism of the left-wing government, which is obediently referring to the vulnerability of the so-called "institutions", will exert terrible, unbearable pressure on the government official and employee with the parallel assessments of doubtful impartiality and solvency, with the aim of making him through flexible punishment provisions that are subject to the bill, hostage and persuasive instrument of the government concerned and, by extension, creditors. On the other hand, the official and employee will be controlled by the Public Administration Observatory, where citizens will report on the quality of the services they have used. I believe that this institution and various citizens with a 'hidden' incentive will become poorly understood informants of the respective coexistence or government, targeting persons and not a level of service provided. The modus operandi of the public administration, as described in that bill, does not betray progressiveity and a left-hand sign. It is only an extremist memorial appearance, which is the sole target of the state official and official as supposedly sole responsible for the sufferings of the public administration and the state machine, which is under the sole responsibility of the post-government governments. With regard to the rotten memorial times that we are proclaiming, the ultimate responsibility lies with the brigade of the memorial policies imposed by international loan sharks and their domestic associates. In this period of time it is solely the SYRIZA ANEL Government, which arbitrarily turned the people's courageous 'no' into a 'yes' coward by destroying popular sovereignty. Gentlemen of the co-government, we tell you that we respect the recent popular verdict of the September elections with which the people gave SYRIZA - ANEL a second chance. We demand, however, that all political actors and the media respect the will of the people and that the voice of the Golden Dawn, of nationalism be heard without interference of the type of political defamation and slander from known political and parapolitical circles. The government has given it this second opportunity, unfortunately, for the benefit of the international loan sharks, to carry out and complete its monumental, destructive, ethnic and anti-linguistic work. I predict that a third chance will not be given by the people, who feel betrayed and deceived by the right-wing co-government with the hermaphrodite political signal. It turns out that the worst nightmare of unscrupulous loan-to-slappers is happening. The Golden Dawn, loyal to the ideals of the nation, is targeted at the good of the country's homeland and the sovereign Greek people, which suffers a peculiar genocide due to the memorial measures, is resisted and gnawed, despite the hybridist and innocenced political behaviour of the amoralist, supposedly constitutional political arch and the intertwined media of the mass clashes of the Golden Dawn. In conclusion, we are voting against the bill in principle. We believe in ethnic patriotism, conscientiousness and the charitableness of the awakened Greek state minister and employee, who is not responsible for the fate of the state machine, for which full and exclusive responsibility bears the corrupt post-political status of our country and its party leaders. Not at all, this political establishment is fighting rampantly and unfairly on Golden Dawn, the only genuine nationalist voice in and out of Parliament. Golden Dawn will resist any resurrected Memorandum measure, such as this bill, which makes the state minister and employee hostage in the context of the implementation of the Memorandumary Practices. He will resist until the final victory, the victory of the simple Greek who will break the monumental bonds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, too. Mr. Papatheodorou has the floor, but he's missing from the Chamber, as I can see. Let us move on to the next one, who is Mr. Delis from the JRC. Here, Mr. Delis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the bill which we discussed in the committees before us, we are debating today in plenary today, it seems that opposition traditions for such bills are not respected too closely. I am talking about the noise of the state that was accompanied by such legislation in previous years, the noise of communism, a noise in which, of course, our party never participated. Of course, your old opposition habits are not completely missing for a bill attempting a number of changes in public administration, but the climate is clearly different. If one excludes what one has heard and is likely to hear, such as the koruna for post-call officials or for individual provisions, otherwise for the main axes of the bill and its central direction, there is a consensus and a very constructive dialogue between you. In our view, two are the main reasons for explaining this position. The first is that the bill under discussion is a natural development and follow-up to the previous legislation - monumental and non-relevant - of all the previous governments and governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, in the well-known direction of reactionary changes to the public established by the European Union for the overall needs of capital. And this bill moves in the same track and goes in the same direction. It is in line with all the relevant legislations of the former, which it confesses to many times in its own articles. This is what you all confess when you speak - elegantly, it is the truth - to safeguard the institutional memory of the state administration. The second reason is that today's bill - not to forget, that is - is a prerequisite and commitment to the third Memorandum, the Tsipras Memorandum, which was voted on by all of you, namely SYRIZA, the ANEL, the New Democracy, the PASOK, the Potami. Therefore, its risk and anti-gravity are given data for both public workers and the people. The next time, according to governmental lips, and other similar interventions for the public administration, of course always in the same direction. What are you doing with this bill? Under the pretext of fighting communism, waste, various scandals and bad services - there are, of course, problems to one or the other - you also promote restructuring to serve the aims and needs of the ruling class, the true state owner in every class society. What does the ruling class want? What's he looking for? In fact, it does not fail to point it out at every opportunity, as does all the communications, for example, of BSE, but other associations of capital. Agon and pressure you on modernising the state administration so that it, in a more effective way, serves the general needs of capital and capitalist development, in particular, now, in conditions of capitalist crisis and severe competition. This also comes to reply to this bill with the changes it is promoting. What can these restructurings and changes have to do with the people's real needs? Absolutely none. They are being reversed, because there is no neutral state, there is no state standing outside or above social, class opposition. And if this is not so distinctive in times of capitalist development, it is evident in times of capitalist crisis. Is there even one law, since the economic crisis broke out, which does not have a class stamp in favour of capital and against the people? Is that not the memorial tombs, the unpopular state budgets, the strangled social expenditure on health, education, welfare, the savage cuts in wages and pensions, taxation, the abolition of collective agreements, the release of redundancies and so many others? What can we say now? What about the crumbs you fly to the people to keep him wise and subjugated? Part of this policy is today's public administration bill. They surpass the verbal acronyms and use quite misleading concepts that generally have a positive content. But according to the explanatory statement and your positions so far, you consider and want - and we think you are honest with it - the state administrative development lever system. What development? But, of course, capitalist growth, which means the growth of capital gains. And these profits, you know, come only from the intensity of workers' exploitation. And so that the slightest doubt about this remains, you cynically admit it in the report itself, and you are proud of its pragmatic nature, saying that it is in line with the generally socio-political conditions, in other words, capitalist barbarism. The fact that you are, of course, in harmony with this barbarity, did not require this bill to prove it. You prove it every day with your policy. What now is the anti-scientific you say in this report and which you write in the explanatory statement, that it is the passivity of the state administrative mechanism that is responsible for the crisis? Well, don't you know that the cause of the crises is always the overcompensation of capital, profits, that is, that is, they're ponding and not invested due to a lack of expectation of young, bigger profits? The overshadowed chests of pluralism in Switzerland call it! The bad system of selecting government leaders is responsible for the qualitative delay of public administration services, as you say, or the class nature of the urban state standing in the demands of capital, while at the same time awaiting the popular social needs in health, education and elsewhere? Whatever that state gave the people under the pressure of the people's struggles and the effect, of course, of the labour conquests of the countries of socialist construction, now take it back and you, along with the former ones. This state wants to shield, reorganise, modernise, for the interests of the few, the capitalists and their system and not for the many, the popular majority, which you devastate in the taxes, the carpets, the work to the deep ageing with all the laws you are voting on. You're talking about areas, about merit, about colonization, about efficiency. Let's take a look at them: A simple reading to do in the bill easily first finds that it is fully in line with the public service code that has been in force since 2007 and the Disciplinary Law. Reactively both. Enter the National Register of Officials of Public Administration and claim that this is the objective of the selection of state administrations. Except that the Special Administration Selection Board you recommend for this purpose simply proposes and the Minister finally makes the choice. And because that is not enough for you, you also put a commitment agreement on top, to further tie the implementation of anti-grassroots policy to this application of state officials. And as "no witness is missing from any Maracist", so BSE and other employers and from this Special Selection Council are not lacking, so that they too have a say and a picture of the public administration. As for the interview of the candidates present in the bill, either as an advisory or as structured, it cannot be objective especially when examining the individuality of the candidates. Not to say about what is written on efficiency in crisis management that comes back to the text as a key assessment and efficiency criterion. What do you mean when you talk about crisis management? Natural disasters? And if so, why don't you specifically mention it and leave it vaguely? We're waiting for another answer. Lifting you do in the previous review. I say this 'assess' to get together, because it is a reactionary state control of civil servants. This assessment that has encountered so many fair reactions is reintroduced by the packaging of the targeting and is directly linked to the effectiveness of the public administration and the grading, therefore, wage developments of civil servants. But who sets the targets? The bill's answering. The objectives are defined by the Ministry by the respective Ministers and specialise from above to below in all areas and services of the Ministries for all members, for all officials. In addition, the relevant Observatory for better control of the implementation of these objectives is also established. However, the basic question is another and it is very crucial. What can be these goals? Are these objectives not set by the general government policy, by the European Union's general anti-popular strategy? An anti-Hallian policy and strategy can only set state administration targets. When, for example, you have the objective of self-financed hospitals to make sure that you do not give them a single euro from the state budget, then the evaluation of health officials will be judged mainly by how hard they are working on the business of public hospitals, despite their availability and their heroic efforts to help patients. Does the aim of increasing the collection in the Ministry of Finance not mean intensity of fraud, hunting for the collection of characters? Does the aim of the State budget not mean reduced costs of health, education, welfare? Does the aim in addition to the balanced budgets of the municipalities mean less and more expensive kindergartens, food and foul? Efficacy for whom, then, does it work? For the people and their needs? Of course not! Just the chapter! To be able to perpetuate unobtrusively everywhere, to rock the state budget by fighting the people. That is the financing of the development you are talking about, that is, the financing of capital. This is what this evaluation serves through targeting. As for the level of civil servants you bring, workers are even more categorised and the low wages of compulsory education are particularly affected. Here we must, ladies and gentlemen, make a clarification. We, of course, when criticising the changes and the functioning of the state mechanism, do not defend the public sector that exists today, nor do we close our eyes to existing corruption phenomena, nor do we care about the necessary functional modernisations of that state relating to the people's needs, nor do we ignore the valuable and heroic efforts of workers in the public on a daily basis who are in contact with the people, whom we do not recognise with the anti-popular nature and the mission of the urban state for which we do not have the slightest delusion. What we want to defend is their dignity at work, their rights and their obligations that stem from this dignity. What we want to show, in the end, to the people is the deep classic, anti-grassroots character of this state, regardless of the manager or political form, which it takes over time as a body of sovereignty, of the sovereign order. The essence of the problem in the public sector is not the lack of evaluation. It is about the direction that this public sector has, with the fact that he serves the strategic goals of the ruling class rather than politi-politi-politi-politi-politi-politi-politi-politi-politi-politi-politis. With the bill you are promoting in the structures, services and civil servants, you do not aim to satisfy the widespread people's needs, to provide quality social services. Besides, your overall policy every day breaks all this. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. Workers in the public and private sectors, all the popular strata, of course, have an interest and need in a state administration that is essential to serve a development for the benefit of the people. However, it is a prerequisite for power to change hands and order. It is a prerequisite for the working of the people. On the basis of all the above, we are voting against the proposed draft law in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, too. MP Konstantinos Karamanlis seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad for Tuesday 23 February 2016 and Wednesday 24 February 2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u32	The House approved the requested permission. Mr. Papatheodorou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, I apologise for the instant absence. Minister, I think that the ambition of every Minister for Administrative Reform in his area of responsibility would be to be able to promote administrative reform with a progressive figure, on the other hand to have the consent of the highest possible proportion of this House, as well as of the workers and the public administration, and finally to achieve the foundations for its implementation. In these three elements, in the progressive preamble to the reform - the real reform - the consensus - which we have supported in many respects and made proposals for - and also the possibility of implementing, I think, Mr Minister, that there are very large gaps in this draft law. The government, in its draft of the law under discussion, appears to discover and find out the great diseases of public administration and, of course, attempt to cure them. The assumptions of the chronic problems of the public administration, as they are recorded in the explanatory statement, are extremely interesting. At the same time, however, these assumptions obviously contradict the Government's final choices and weaken the credibility of its choices. According to the Government, public administration suffers from undignification, intense intervention by the political subsystem in the administrative subsystem, bureaucracy, centralisation, the absence of culture of public good service, pluralism and evil, as well as the domination of a parallel administration by postmanagement associates of Ministers, who eventually come to exercise real administration and real power over the responsible formal administration. That is what the explanatory statement says. I am sure, Minister, that this assumption, and only in the explanatory statement, should have led you to different options, namely those that have the potential to eliminate these pathogens, or at least to lay the basis for their elimination. I think that this last assumption of the parallel administration of political authorities and officials is a public self-criticism about how all kinds of post-call co-workers of Ministers and other political persons of the government, who are being scandalally multiplied lately with a view to substituting, guiding and manipulating public administration. Of course, criticism and self-criticism are welcome when the purpose is to promote substantial reforms. I think that we need to give an answer today. Indeed, the party in public administration negatively affects the quality of democracy and offends respect for the citizen and the protection of legal goods and rights. Partisanism makes the citizen powerless toward the state, hostage to the state and the administration, a hostage to the parallel mechanisms that downgrade the content of the services provided, create customer dependencies that abolish any sense of worthiness. If we agree on this, we should see where this bill is trying to eliminate this phenomenon. This kind of pathogen also fuels and feeds from the pluralism and the maliciousness of the formal laws - I have to make a point at the end of this - as well as the regulatory regulations, the sloppiness of legislative interventions, and sometimes very visible interests. This is what Eleftherios Venizelos described as "decrease in the morality of the state", a problem which crosses the function of the institutions over the last hundred years in our country. And this is time, finally to change. The crisis in which all the functions of the state are today makes it necessary to re-establish the rules governing public administration and also to establish transparency in public service so that we can seek the recovery of credibility in the public service. In this direction, the PASOK governments - and you know it - have promoted major reforms, such as the establishment of the IAS as the Independent Authority, the "HUMANY" as a key tool for transparency and social control of management decisions, such as the operation of the National School of Public Administration and the operation of JEPs, the control of public procurement and procurement for public works or even the evaluation of public administration. The quality of democracy and the protection of citizens' rights are directly linked to transparency in the day-to-day functioning of the administration. The foundations for extremism and transparency, which have been set up in the past, are now the framework for extending legislative initiatives in this direction, but on the condition that these initiatives do not give rise to the temptation of a new management guided by public administration with the stipulation of decommissioning and flat-line transparency. In this temptation, I think you have suffered, Minister. I am referring to the above, because despite the declaratory analyses in the explanatory statement, the government with the arrangements of this draft law, chooses to adapt, stick to its own system of partisanism, by switching the application of substantial arrangements in this draft law to the next government, to those who will probably come to implement it or if it does not interest them, to change it. An example is the maintenance of all the general and special secretaries during this Government and the prediction that the system will be fully implemented from 2018 onwards. You probably think you'll still be there. But you may not be. If you really think that partisanism should be struck now, if you really believe that the clientele should disappear or shrink, then why do you not consent to immediate application? And if you do not consent to the immediate implementation, why do you not agree to a short schedule for the implementation of these regulations that you propose, especially for the general and special secretaries, presidents and vice-presidents of the legal persons governed by public law? We have tabled concrete proposals for both the register and the method of selection, but also for the timing of implementation. And in these proposals, Minister, if you were prepared and willing, there could be the consent of this House. We believe that the establishment of a National Register of Public Administration Executives - we have proposed it for the Secretary-General with office - could be a positive step towards ensuring the principle of transparency, the continuity of the state, the credibility and the dismantling of public administration. However, after setting up - without any assessment of party criteria - completely party criteria, such as the system today, as general and special secretaries of ministries, presidents and governors, advisors to legal persons of public law, the government has the right to protect them, over time the choice of young people from the next term of office. Why is that? Also, if, Minister, do you want to make a real cut in the upper tiles of the public administration, then why are you limiting the possibility of nomination for the register for the relevant posts in civil servants of high qualifications, teachers of HEIs, TEIs and EDPS researchers from the first and second levels, and do you not extend the circle of candidates and to people from the private sector, from society, but also from the self-government of high-qualified counterparts? There are clear contradictions in the logic and way of legislating. You provide, among other things, in Article 2, for the inclusion in the National Registry of regular civil servants and IDAC, graduates - and rightly so - of the National School of Public Administration, as well as of retired officers who have made certain schools, but you are at the same time excluding the representatives of local government, who have, I am sure, done, taken over and who have been part of the wider public administration. You have also excluded lawyers, members of the Legal Council of the State, and people from the social area who are aware of experience and know-how. This exclusion is also unreasonable and unreasonable, and it deprives public administration, perhaps, of very serious and competent executives. We are telling you that we are in favour of joining the national register and of people, in addition to what you are proposing, from the private and social sectors, as well as from people from local authorities. We are in favour of the application of the provisions of this law with a specific timetable so that we can move directly on to the fight against clienteles and the partitioning of the state. In the relevant national register provisions a number of arrangements, such as the exception from the Register of the Securities Committee, the CFS and other bodies you have chosen, as well as the notice only of vacant posts since the end of almost 2016. Minister, too - and I think that you can give an answer now - you have not avoided any legislative gaps. The term of office of the Secretary-General, according to your rules, is determined in four years - quite rightly - with the right to renewal - quite rightly - for another decade. It does not, however, stipulate that neither on which criteria nor on whom the appointment of some will be renewed. How are we going to be refreshed? Or should we come back to legislate later? We also note that these positions of responsibility are not explicitly involved in the targeting process, which creates an inconsistency in linking the achievement and evaluation to the renewal of the mandate. Because they are evaluated and evaluated by the Minister. Furthermore, the establishment and operation of the register will require significant financial costs - we all know that - which has not been budgeted today, as the important, almost exclusively, employment of a large number of officials and committees in the Ministry and in the AACC will also be required, which entails the risk of great delays and inefficiency of the whole project. With regard to the procedure for selecting the Secretary-General and the Special Secretary-General, the Minister's political intervention remains present to the extent that it is ultimately the one who chooses from the list of the three most predominant candidates and finally appoints. This element of political subjectivity is contrary to us, since the procedure has been fully entrusted to the AACC and is under its guarantee. Finally, on these provisions we have already pointed out that the acquired experience and know-how of those executives return to their post after the end of their term of office, as well as that the entry into service of the national registry from 31-7-2016 should be followed by a concrete and short schedule for the call and filling of all the posts mentioned and not just the gaps. This will ensure the real and visible prospect of decommissioning the public administration without the admissible maintenance of the persons appointed to date under political criteria. I will not speak today about Chapters II, III and IV, because we will examine them in the debate on the articles. But there are issues which we are now being asked a lot of questions. Questions which, Minister, have to do with the other provisions. I am not talking about the amendments, because we will talk tomorrow and there is really a very big field. The other provisions, apart from the fact that every time we read a provision, we really undone and what the legislator wants us to say, we should, Minister, undone who the legislator wants to say it. Because the problem in too many of these provisions is a problem of good legislation. Minister, this ministry should give lessons of good legislature and not only does it not give them, but in too many cases other provisions, it legislates ad personam rather than in rem. It is legislation on individuality, not in the general interest, and that is the problem. When we read, for example, in Article 32, that the Minister can transfer even at the request of anyone where he wants, what would it matter that legal certainty exists within a public administration, which is so bad that there is a council and which we would support? But you know, it seems that in the end your targeting is not to protect public administration, and there is the problem of reform, which has nothing but the service of a party political interest. For example, in the provision referred to in Article 36, we will discuss it in detail and tomorrow - where you want to allow a number of officials to return from retirement, who will complete their service until 67 years, why do you not identify it and combine it with the pension bill so that everyone gets out on the set date? That question is worth it. Finally, Minister - I do not want to exceed time, I owe the President - I told you last time that the article on the Open University was passed. It was voted yesterday. You should have withdrew it, because in addition to the votes in this House, we will see dubious votes and, you know, a draft administrative reform bill is not a title of honour. I would therefore tell you that we are starting with reservation. We made concrete proposals to you. We have made concrete proposals to you, which you could have accepted. In this form we are voting against the bill in principle, and we do indeed believe that no other opportunity should be lost for reform in public administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u35	Mr President, may I make a comment?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u36	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Papatheodorou, the article on the Open University has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u38	Has he retired?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u39	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u40	Has he shared?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u41	Yeah. He's retired.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u42	When?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u43	He's retired. So is Article 32.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u44	When we talk, we stand up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u45	Okay, it's over. Next time, you'll be up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u46	You've thrown it all together!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u47	Why that concern? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u48	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u49	Get back in front of you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u50	I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Darkness. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u52	Apologise! And be written in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u53	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u54	You're cut off for the Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u55	Mr President, I apologise because I wanted to say a word, I did not want to speak. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u56	Mr President, may I have the floor for thirty seconds?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u57	No, Mr. Papatheodorou, you don't have the floor, not for two.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u58	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Lightla, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u60	Tell us which articles have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u61	Didn't you hear them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u62	To share, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u63	All right, let them share. At this point we will give the floor to the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Xydakis, who has an urgent departure problem. You have the floor for a while, Mr Xydakis, to support the amendment that my colleagues have before them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for giving me the opportunity to support this amendment. This is an amendment to practical utility, to facilitate the operation of the administration, but also to serve the national economy, in particular the tourist economy. Last year there was a change in the method of issuing tourist visas - Visa - for which the administrative mechanism had to be adapted, namely the consular authorities issuing tourist visas for non-Schengen countries. The new visa system - VIS - includes a multitude of biometric elements and a cross-check with European databases. We therefore had to adapt the whole system of general consular services and we have noted that there would be a lack of staff. We have funds for some years from the ISF Visa European Fund, which finances both the purchase of equipment and the cost of telecommunications charges and a part of a field workers, i.e. workers on the ground, and therefore we could start with quite good omens, at least in financial security and not have a burden on the state budget. The point to which the consent of the legislature is needed is what we are now introducing: to allow the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with an amendment to its organisation to hire seasonal workers to meet the seasonal needs in visas for tourist visas. There was no possibility. We are introducing an amendment to this House which is somewhat relevant to the substance and content of the very substantial and ambitious draft law. And I think that this legislative intervention by the Ministry of Administrative Reform will leave a story. It has been distributed to you, I am at the disposal of anyone for clarification. No expense. On the contrary, I can tell you that with the sixty, eighty, 100 or hundred or fifty Maximums - which we are providing for in the amendment - seasonal people will produce a direct income of several million euros for the Greek state. Above all, we will be able to be ready to provide our services mainly to Russia, where there is an estimate that we will have an increased flow of tourists. It is around four to five million Russian tourists, who are almost certain that they will not be directed towards Turkey and Egypt and will seek other destinations. Greece is a friendly destination for Russian tourists. I believe that we are ready to give them this service, to make a timely visa, to come to Greece and to strengthen national income through tourism. That is the essence and spirit of the amendment. Please for your attention and the consent of this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u65	Mr President, may I ask the Minister a question about the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u66	Not now. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-three students and students and four educational sessions from the 2nd High School of Rhodes "Kazoulio". The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Fotillas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would like to begin with two comments on topical and urgent subjects. The first concerns your statement a few days ago in committee that the separatism of private media is a path to democracy. In addition to the huge problems in the economy caused by your Government, however much you are trying to hide it, you know that the amendment you have brought for the channels is a badly unconstitutional one. You are told not only by experienced lawyers from the Council of State, but also by persons of unknown prestige, such as the constitutionalist Mr Kasimatis. You know, it's not a river, it's a left. So let divisive terminology and unprecedented theories and see how you can fix the problem. The second observation concerns the arrest as an extortionist of the newspaper with two journalists. I would not comment on it, but because we know each other in this place, the same publisher was often presented by the public channel as a valid source of information, and you even advertised the newspaper to him. The people tell us in these cases "show me your friend, tell you who you are". I now come to the bill we are discussing today. Ladies and gentlemen, "the Greek public administration is too extensive, mispaid and discouraged. I have never seen a public administrative structure which is due to incompetence and inefficiency so unacceptable. I am absolutely convinced that no improvement in the country's finances will be possible if the main problem of the failure of the state machine is not solved." You know, these words do not belong to a current studyer of the problem of public administration. They belong to Kyriakos Varvaressos, former Governor of the Bank of Greece and Minister of Finance, and are only part of the findings he made in his famous report in 1952 on the economic problem of Greece since 1952. Since then, he has pointed out, firstly, the excessive number of civil servants in certain services - some of them unqualified - and the lack of others. Secondly, the problem with senior management is not to stand up to the circumstances that are changing to the organs of the party pursuits. Then came the period of post-population that under normality conditions would have to deal with the problem. This period has two faces, I'd say. On the one hand, it was characterised by the creation of important structures for the administration of public administration, such as the National School of Public Administration in 1983 or the AACC for recruitment on the basis of objective criteria of civil servants in 1996. Unfortunately, however, its dominant element was its failure to resolve the major issue of the party state. On the contrary, he giganticized it, starting from 1981 to 1985, where the number of civil servants increased by 35%. Efforts were made in the 1990s to bring the country into the core of the European Union. However, despite the success of the country's entry into EMU, institutional and, above all, administrative insufficiency remained unresolved. Instead of the country starting to see its entry into EMU for reforms in order to limit the party state and corruption, the situation deteriorated. At the height of this relaxation, the rule of Karamanlis, where not only was the party state limited, but was enlarged with new recruitments of hundreds of thousands of civil servants, permanent and non-organized by the current President of the Republic and then the Minister of Interior Mr Prokopis Pavlopoulopoulos. The account or, as they say in the popularity, sad came in 2008 with the derailment of the economy as a result of the global economic crisis. Shortly thereafter, the bankruptcy of the Greek state will be apparent. The country is subject to a Memorandum Status. The only option was to ensure that payments are not made. It is true that efforts have been made within the six years of the 2010-2016 crisis towards addressing the malfunction of the public administration. Transparency and opengov, for example, contributed to a more modern operation of the state. But, again, the political system and much of society - it is true - reacted and strongly reacted to any attempt to change, following stereotyping behaviour. Many changes were made under the pressure of the lenders, and they should have been made by us. I shall mention, in order not to frame the issue of the census of civil servants. To know, like, how many people and who he's paying for. It is a shame that strangers should have come to us to dictate their realization and not be done by us already. We, the Potami, ladies and gentlemen, knowing the deadlocks that I described to you, set as the main objective of our programme the radical reform of the state and public administration. It was necessary to recognise that it was the conflict with all its pathogens, first and worst in its full-cost composting. The current SYRIZA - ANLL government had taken the lead in voting against all the reforms proposed to modernise public administration in the previous period. Today she brings a bill that recognizes the words she denounced before. Look at her explanatory statement. So does this bill respond to the demands for radical and in-depth changes that we need as a country? We claim that not, ladies and gentlemen, despite his great declarations. It is not an overall plan for the restoration of public administration. But let us look at its main points and we will discuss them in detail tomorrow. The first Chapter, Articles 1-13, concerns the selection of public administration staff, the establishment of a national register and the selection procedure for those under the supervision of the IAS. You are, however, postponing its implementation after two evaluation periods, namely after two years, with the transitional provisions of Article 13. You are well aware that it was a constant tactic for the old parties to bring transitional provisions so that they could apply the relevant laws at any time. You go on with it, too. The old bad legacy culture. You are part of the old regime, no matter how big you speak to you about supposedly changing. You have seen the comments in the consultation. Even your people note that "yes, it's an interesting idea to register, but I wish it would go ahead" or "Let's hope it's implemented", because they know very well that, with these transitional provisions, you will apply it after you put it into the seats of the secretaries and directors of everyone you wish to see. If the provision of Article 13 with the exclusion from the register of private sector officials is combined, it is obvious that you want to have a closed system of executives to cover positions in public administration, because of your obsessions against the private sector. We, confronted with these obsessions and the porch you are trying to create, argue that it is perfectly possible within a very short period of time to create an overall digital establishment plan for the public, in which the structure and staffing of all the public-funded bodies and agencies will be fully reflected. The establishment plan will include all the organic units and all the publicly paid and will be able to always, precisely and fully capture the structure of the entire public administration until the level of each individual. In addition, transparency, which is one of the main demands, is achieved by the purity of the structure. If the establishment plan is combined with the census of civil servants, the register you propose can be arranged easily. Also, the co-legislative Ministries will have a full picture of the structures and persons they serve, so that they can carry out a proper planning of the actions of the Ministries and, for example, leave no one-faced sections or single-point addresses to operate. With the data on this establishment plan, together with a register of private sector officials, you could easily determine which positions you need. You could still define - and rightly so, I would say - that in some places you would like to be staffed exclusively by public officials or others and by the private sector, with specific criteria. But that's not what you want. You want a completely controlled pool of government officials. The party state will continue, left-handed now. We, as a Potami Parliamentary Group, tabled an amendment to the Chohatzopoulos Act and a reduction in post-mortem officials, with whom the government then filled the political offices of the Ministers and State Secretarys by joining the public. But you too do follow the same practice, the logic of party appointments. Truly, yesterday you announced a new President of the Grand Music, again one of your friends. With the second chapter of the bill, Articles 14 to 24, a system of evaluation is introduced for some categories of civil servants. We have expressed our disappointment here for two reasons. The first is because the evaluation does not result from a coherent positional profile, which would have been very easy if you had made progress in the creation of the digital establishment plan referred to above, but you are also following the degree, pre-service time and then the position for which the staff member needs, in order to assess it. We insist on this issue, ladies and gentlemen, because, if we do not proceed with clear line of positions, the assessment with the sole criterion of targeting will be an empty letter. Finally, in order for the public to function properly, in order to use its full potential, we must place the right people in the right positions and, of course, the number of officials to go hand in hand with the number of responsibilities of each position. The second issue which raises us, reasonably, questions is the provisions concerning those officials who will be assessed as inappropriate. There was a detailed discussion in committee, in which we amazed the Minister to tell us that in any case and zero to get through ongoing assessments in public, you will not have any impact. We do not recommend a vengeance policy towards civil servants, because we do not agree with such a policy, but, once again, those who are assessed negatively for two consecutive times and cannot be improved either after they have been placed in another position or after they have been retrained, we believe that they cannot be placed in the public domain. What is the point of building scales with a specific rating if there are no relevant consequences? Yes, we must proceed to a constitutional review, and in this area too, because we cannot keep people who prove themselves unable to serve and contribute to the service of citizens. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] The third chapter on grading developments and the promotion system does not make any substantial changes to the existing system. We only have a few comments to make in the debate on the articles. The only thing that we wanted to raise, and which we think is the need for legislative improvement, is the possibility of a state guard being placed in detention stores after a choice from the board of directors. There is no liability allowance in this respect, and the position itself is necessary, so that someone can get after the sergeant's responsibility. In the fourth chapter, what I said about the evaluation of executives also applies to the selection of heads, namely the need for clear positional profiles. But since we're talking about selecting heads, let's see where you supported the creation of forty-nine directors, forty-nine directors - divisions in ERT, forty-nine directors - departments, Minister, with imaginable titles, so that you can cover the whole family. Here's an example. The Directorate-General for Young Media will now have four Heads: Original Content, Digital Publications, Current and Creative Design. In other words, another chief will be following the RES and reporters, another will ask the reporters for exclusive topics, another will also have the design of digital versions, another lead will also be there for television advertising and another for mutual advertising. The good old Greek public! You don't understand anything, or you probably do, but you don't want to change. I come to the fifth and final chapter of the draft law, which is, in fact, the reason for voting against the bill, in complete contrast with your declarations of need for regulation, which will not be rhetorical. I could say a lot about Article 32, for example. Now I hear he's retired. Nothing is withdrawn unless you bring it here to see it, Minister. "In the words I build upper and lower." I could therefore say a lot about Article 32, which in anti-constitutional terms you are giving the Minister power to make transfers and secondments, or about Article 36, which, unlike Article 43, is decided by the Minister rather than by the Staff Council. See, they're fifteen thousand employees. There's a lot of votes, Christopher. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Two minutes, Mr. President. I am going to give two small examples, because in greater detail I will see you in the debate. Under the provision of Article 35 you arrange two journalists at the Ministry of the Interior, because, as mentioned in the explanatory statement, the two ministries, internal and administrative reform have been merged. But, Minister, we told you in committee too, that's why you did it. You did so, we did not merging the ministries to reduce operating costs, not to double them. The second example is Article 45 for the Greek Open University in Patras, which creates three new seats of Vice-Presidents, exempting them from teaching tasks and which come from other universities. We don't need a day-to-day settlement, Minister. We need arrangements to promote the self-reliance of the Open University in Patras. Finally, Article 48 will be discussed in detail tomorrow. Today I only have to say: "Bernardakis is buying, Katrugalos drink." [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] With the above considerations and opinions I have developed, it is clear that this is a bill below the circumstances, which is why we are voting against at first instance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all good evening. The list of the two remaining special speakers will be closed, Mr. Kokalis and Mr. Georgiadis. Then we will start alternately five Members of Parliament, a parliamentary representative. The Minister is self-evident that he will speak, just let me know in time, a quarter before, when you want to make your speech. I have asked the Government Secretariat to send me a list of the ministers, because it has not been sent up until now, to make the distribution, not to fall off all of us tomorrow or tonight. I think they will want to, but it cannot be 'annul'. We will go to at least 12 o'clock at midnight and those on the list will continue all the material tomorrow morning. Of course, it goes without saying that the parliamentary representatives are speaking today and tomorrow and the rapporteurs and special speakers are speaking. So don't waste time. Just, Minister, I would like to ask you - and that is why you are doing well and do not speak immediately after the special speakers - when you take the floor, to give you two minutes more, to tell us which amendments you are accepting, to know what colleagues from tonight, at least from the so far tabled, because I hear that others are coming tomorrow. Are you laughing? Yes, sir. Mr. Vassilis Coke has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the diseases of the Greek administrative system have been highlighted for decades. In this context, the necessary reforms were proposed several times, which would modernise the public administration and make the state effective, but none was actually implemented. The exit from the crisis dictates a number of reforms relating to the organisation and functioning of the public administration. The reform of the Greek public administration, through a flexible and efficient system of organisation and operation, will necessarily help to get out of the crisis. If nothing else, public administration plays a decisive role in speeding up the Greek economy, rationalising expenditure and increasing competitiveness. The Greek crisis and the recession from it have put forward a more pressing need for reform in the areas of neuro-algics, whose effective functioning could contribute to reducing public debt and deficit. Besides, those countries that are under undertakings have as a prerequisite radical change and in the way in which public administration organises and operates. Of course, the ultimate objective is economic growth, strengthening employment, competitiveness and improving investment. Unfortunately, to date, the multitude of structures and people, the fragmentation of responsibilities, the lack of political planning and the management of human and material resources have been attributes to the way in which public administration organises and operates. Today Greece is invited to carry out the planning, coordination, implementation and monitoring of a series of such reforms. However, the past shows the lack of organisation and functioning of the public administration. Unfortunately, the Greek public administration relied on dissatisfaction and miserable reform interventions. The domination of the client system in recruitment and appointments was the inverted image of political life. At the heart of all the Greek governments with regard to the plan to exit the crisis, reforms were proposed at a large level. More specifically: First, in the updated Greek Stability and Development Programme of the Ministry of Finance and, secondly, in the National Reform Programme 2011-2014 of the Ministry of Finance. In an OECD report, the apparent inability of the successive Greek governments to implement measures adopted can be found in significant permanent weaknesses in the functioning of the public administration. The Greek central administration is characterised by ineffective structures, insufficient access to information and a lack, above all, of coordination. These problems were characteristic of the Greek administrative system long before the economic crisis, at a significant cost to the Greek economy and society. The low profitability and the low quality of services provided to citizens highlight the immediate need for modernisation and full evaluation of all-tier civil servants. A relevant response to the crisis tried to provide with the Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policy, May 2010, as supplemented by the Memorandum of Understanding on the specific conditions of economic policy in February 2012. As he points out, reforms in public administration are orphan reforms, as no one in the political sphere expressly opposes them, but no one supports them strongly. The main objectives of this draft law are: Firstly, a flexible system by improving the efficiency, accountability, the integrity of the administration and simplifying procedures for decision-making. Secondly, the creation of a strong decision-making centre and the communication of services between them. Each competence will be clearly separated and in advance entrusted with clear objectives, in order to avoid the intrusion of past practice, i.e. the regulation of the same or similar sectors by many. The existence of a central coordination body in this case is also crucial. The collection, processing and analysis of data and information on the whole administrative action entails decision-making and policy-making that will produce positive results with a view to continuously improving and effectively addressing the issues raised. e-government can also be used to plan operational resources, manage relations with the citizen and with electronic public procurement. At the same time, the targeting, systematic analysis and monitoring of reforms are the guarantees of greater credibility in the public administration. Supervision, control and the ongoing assessment of civil servants were, however, a constant and pressing request, but none at all did everything at times. In fact, the strengthening of high-ranking executives beside the political executives and the exploitation of competences through unavoidable selection procedures are undoubtedly moving in the right direction. The creation of an administrative elite in the Greek public administration will constitute an impediment to the customer system in order to ensure autonomy and continuity of the administration during the rotation of parties in the government. Also, the participation of society in this project, through electronic observations and proposals, is an innovative idea, the practical value of which is considered to be a major one. And the judges are judged. The need for standardisation and simplification of administrative procedures gives great value to the use of participatory evaluation tools, operating a permanent consultation body with the participation of citizens. At the same time, transparency and accountability are strengthened through compulsory publication on the Internet of all management decisions. Social control and removal of political intervention in public administration with regard to appointed directors and their advisers, as well as to cover all positions through imprecise procedures under the auspices of the AACC, are the main pillars of administrative modernisation. There is no doubt that these are areas whose reform should have already been carried out in the context of the efficient organisation and operation of the public administration. Modern socio-economic conditions make it more imperative than ever to adopt those measures that will stimulate Greek administration to drive a lever to exit the crisis. The success of the reform project appears as a one-way path in the case of the Greek public administration, taking into account the catalytic role it can play in strengthening competitiveness, improving the business environment and, unfortunately, strengthening the confidence of the citizens - who have been lost - in the state. The prerequisites for the success and effectiveness of administrative reforms are founded both on the international environment and, above all, on the national, political, organisational and social level. The proposal of this Government is to implement immediately the measures to be adopted, which will help increase competitiveness and growth. We need immediate reforms and long-term ones. Ladies and gentlemen, the public administration and, in particular, the issues relating to its human resources have, over time, been an excellent subject of reform. Fair and well-meaning targets very often resulted in a continuous change in the rules on the establishment and organisation of human resources - whether they were recruitment or promotion - which led the administration itself to an introvert, that is to say, in its involvement with its internal issues, in increasing its administrative burden, both for itself and for the traders. These changes did not have the time to implement - they had very limited time - to be evaluated before being replaced by another reform. Public administration - and this is very important - is an area in which the stability of the rules is important in order to adopt the framework in which their executives are active, with a clear view of their prospects of development, which also act as an incentive to plan their careers. On the contrary, the constant change of "by-mobilizes" and favours opportunistic behaviour and searches of other kinds of stable, such as party support. This draft law serves the principle of this stability and continuity of public administration. Above all, the principle of transparency and dignity is being served. The opposition parties are invited to vote for something that all Greeks, all Greek women shout out, that we did not have a worthwhile public administration. There are too many in this Chamber who agree with the provisions of this bill. We call on you to vote easily, unequivocally, legally, what has already been done for years and is being implemented by the present government. What led public administration to this stagnation, this current government reverses them. And we urge you, too, to contribute to this effort, to modernising public administration and instability in democracy. That is why we are voting for this draft law in principle. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u70	And I, Mr. Red, for giving us five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u71	Mr President, a communication on legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u72	Yeah. The Minister has the floor for a minute to submit the legislative improvements. Do you need to read them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u73	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u74	Just report that you're filing them in the Minutes and then distributed. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u75	That's right. I will present to you these legislative improvements to the draft law along with the explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u76	If there's anything essential, the Minister will tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u77	They're pretty substantial. It's Article 32, which I'm going to talk about, and Article 48, but also the various things you're going to see.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u78	Article 48?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u79	No way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u80	After all, it is preferable, Mr Voridis, within ten minutes, to have been distributed and have them before you to read them. The Minister will necessarily be closing the House this evening with the President-in-Office. This will be by 12 o'clock. So there's no question. Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening, too. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, good evening. Before I begin with today's issue on the forthcoming bill, I would like to table something important in the Minutes of this House. In my previous speech, I made a point to you that, if last year - I had said - you were reducing the annual grant - of the insurance funds, the OTE and the PPC, by about 8%, you would solve the homeless problem. Some of you doubted that last year you predicted to give EUR 1.1 billion for the insurance funds in question, and you ran for the time to write some things in a newspaper of friends of government, namely that I had come unreadable for the parallel programme. I was not at all inconceivable, ladies and gentlemen, and I quote in the minutes the controversial publication of the newspaper 'THE VIMA', which concerns Mr Skourletis, the former Minister for Labour and Social Security. This document was sent to the House by him and published in all forms and electronics last April. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] If you question him, gentlemen of SYRIZA, and the Minister himself, with your pleasure! If, on the other hand, you really want to hear my proposal and take it into account, make sure you find some tens of millions of euros in order to solve the homeless problem, you can also do that. We suggest that you cut off a small sum from the TECs subsidies. You can now find some other solution, such as, for example, not giving these 50, 100 euros to government officials for the current year. Decision and act accordingly. If, on the other hand, you think it is right in Athens, which is the epitome of culture and discovered culture, you can see homeless wrapped in a blanket on the streets and we can all drink - including myself, I will say - our warm coffee in Parliament, you can ignore me. Today you should be outside and providing shelter, food, heating, services and care to these people. We are talking about a cultural issue and not a political issue, gentlemen. I'm waiting for your actions immediately. But I didn't mean, when I said cut some subsidies, cut them off from all the ECHO funds, because there are also some OGA funds, which farmers, as you can see at the moment, are on the way, they're on the block and you see what's going on. As I mentioned the farmers, I would like to say this. I have a solution for how you can get through the roadblocks. Right now, once the Triumph opens, since they come and Halloween, you can come out and buy masks from the president...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u82	Enough! Enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u83	You're not shy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u84	A little more polite!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u85	I'm being nice to talk to you. I'm not embarrassed at all. You can take masks from the president...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u86	It is forbidden to dialogue with colleagues from the Chamber, Mr Georgiadis. Continue your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u87	But I'm interrupted, Mr. President. I don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u88	Okay, but, if you want, you can join the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u89	Of course, I'll be in the bill in a minute. The farmers yesterday were very hot, as we returned from Yannina and we stopped at Evros, and what they said, if I say it, you will not like it at all and you will say that I am provoking it. There is also video of how farmers treated us in Eugene and how they treated your colleague who went out on "KRIT TV". Let's also come to this bill since it's considered... [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] What am I saying? There aren't any...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u90	From the Step of the House! Congratulations!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, calm down! We're wasting time. Let him finish and you'll answer when the time comes by yourself to write in the Minutes what you're about to say. Be sure to give an answer. Go on, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u92	Looks like you want to hear what farmers said about you, don't you? You're causing me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u93	Who's causing?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u94	Mr. Georgiade, please continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u95	Well, let's go on with this bill, 'cause it's going to ring the bell and tell me that my time isn't enough. Public administration, therefore, has been afflicted over the years by numerous cases of anxieties, wages and customer perception. Every government in recent years has considered it an extension of itself. For this reason, the administrations of public bodies change like shirts. Even in critical areas, such as education, we see just as often changes in the administrative leadership. We, ladies and gentlemen, say that there is a need for political stability in some things. Even if you do not want to go to a government of wide-ranging cooperation, as we propose - and the Chief of Officerial Opposition yesterday was in favour of it, but you do not want to make a coalition government - you must at least admit that areas such as education and foreign policy must be run by people of wide cross-party acceptance, namely technocrats, who are aware of the subject. Otherwise, a country is not viable. You cannot experiment with everything as if you were apprentice magicians. In other words, you're telling us that you want an assessment. This word, in fact, is dominant in the bill at issue. But you're interpreting the evaluation with an entirely rationale of yours. The entire bill as evaluators is defined as the hierarchical top management of the organisation concerned. You say, in other words, that the public, as it is today, can be refined from within, that it can cleanse itself in a few words, that is, the healthy parts of public administration are at the moment in public and indeed in a dominant position there too, from the position of power, they will be able to exalt the minority of their bad subordinates. I'm sorry, gentlemen, with all due respect, but that's a mockery. All these years, with the orgy that has taken place in the client state, the Greek State does not need a few touches of improvement. This is a system of clear symposiums. The majority of them are not about the last wheels of the carriage, but about the managers of each body, which you consider to be responsible for evaluating the work of civil servants. Let me get you a hunching example, Article 17(12). There it is stated that even through this sound evaluation system, if any public official is assessed under 60, it must be documented with facts and objective evidence. The same happens if someone is assessed with a bare higher than 90 degrees. On no other scale there is no such explicit labelling. So you're urging evaluators to score between 60 and 90 degrees. Thus, they will not go into any suffering to find detailed evidence to submit it or to carry out the other procedures. Excellent patent. That's very inventive. It's deserving of admiration. And then some of you disturbed my expression of 'cosa nostra'. Obviously, it is an Italian wording, which you do not like. I call it back through the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u96	But can you talk about a criminal organization?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u97	I'm revoking her, I told you. I understand it and I re-print it. You want to treat the public as your own shop, and that's what you're up to and building right now through this bill. So to understand the people that are watching, the evaluation system will include...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u98	Tell us a civil servant who came in.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u99	Come on, you're a scholar now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u100	You will have your word.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u101	But to speak, Mr President, about 'cosa nostra' within the Greek Parliament?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u102	I told you I was withdrawing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u103	Families are talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u104	Mr. Darkness!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u105	He knows about families...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u106	Go on, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Your evaluation system will, therefore, include an assessment by the public authorities themselves. The scales will, in fact, be, as I have said, the majority specified. Is there any reason for an evaluator to put more than 90 or less of 60? Is there any reason for him to put himself in this whole process right now? What public employee would want to get into this trouble? Let me give you a reply. Nobody! The special evaluation committee provided for in Article 21 will only deal with these cases. And to throw us ashes in our eyes, you find another patent. In Article 24 you have a heavy title on accountability and social control. There you say that social operators and citizens will be able to express their opinion on the quality of the provision of public services, but also to formulate proposals for the better functioning of the public service. These proposals and the procedure envisaged and by technological means, I would like you to tell me where it is intended. The greatest thing you say is that it will be taken into account for future legislative adaptations and interventions. Do you really consider us indigenous and all the citizens who are watching us get buried by the biscuits? The opinion of the citizen served by a public service must be taken into account as a first assessor, as is the case in the private sector: If a private person does not receive a good service, he is accountable both for the private employee and for the company providing that service. But you want to create a 'bundle of complaints', possibly online, to show that you care about the opinion of the citizen. No, you just don't care, but on the contrary you're mocking them all. Coming to the end of today's speech, I would like to mention something else which I am impressed about. I shall refer to Rule 40. In Article 40, you mention that people who had been released under law in 2013 are being brought back to the public. In these people, then, the time of availability will be taken - you say - into account as a normal working time, which will count both for the wage and for the graduation of each employee. And I say to you: let's admit that they were unjustly made available. Let's take this injustice and hire them again. How is it possible, ladies and gentlemen, for these three years to be regarded as a normal working time, so that we can develop them along with graduation? So they may return as heads of some service, for which they will really have forgotten about its functions. So you're telling us that from their home these three years people have been able to return to chiefs...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u108	They've already been hired.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u109	Yeah, they've already been hired, but three years they were on holiday and availability. That's what you're telling us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u110	I guess you don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u111	Apparently, I don't know anything. We don't know anything about you. Anyway, we won't continue the dialogue. Do you want to reward for the injustice that has been done to these people all these years? Give the bonuses. Give them another gift. You cannot rate them out, because this is against the rest of the civil servants who have been in their posts all these years and have actually produced work. Public evaluation and the resolution of public administration are not done in this way. And so we can't talk about self-cleaning. If you really want evaluation, there are world-famous, international scientific ways in the literature you can find, converging that each evaluation needs to assist external scientific actors of unknown prestige, in short, technocrats, both from the domestic as well as from the international scientific community. There are specialist scientists to do this job. Apart from that, we also need active evaluation by the individual recipients of a service, not just as you anticipate, but essentially. We do not see you moving in this direction, unfortunately. You're obviously not interested in evaluation or sound public. Just continue your predecessor's pathogens. We are voting against this bill in principle, because we believe that this is simply a set-up, not an effective administrative reform, and we will be placing ourselves on the articles in tomorrow's debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u112	Good. We're done with the boys, and we're gonna go in, like we said, first of all, the first...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u113	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u114	What do you want, Mr. Igoumenides? I covered it, and I'll cover it better.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u115	This statement must be made, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u116	Wait a minute. I'll be on behalf of the whole House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u117	Let's hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u118	Regardless of what might have happened or should have happened, the House must, if not in its entirety, but in its overwhelming majority not rejoice, but condemn pre-conflicts of colleagues for expressing their opinion. Sometimes people may like that view, sometimes they don't like it. Sometimes it's not right, sometimes it's not right. However, we cannot deal with pre-conflicts, and that concerns all colleagues from all sides. This must be our line, no matter what may have happened. I think we should think about it. Mr Antony Balomeni has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u119	Good evening. Ladies and gentlemen, with this draft law Greece finally leaves behind in the 19th century in terms of public administration. It ends with a type of administration, built with the political descendants of the jubes, continued with the children and grandchildren of the victors of the Civil War, who constituted the political elite after-war and later the famous new fireplaces of PASOK. From now on, and thanks to this legislation, origin and political identity will cease to be the passport to the top of the administrative hierarchy. The government is happy to innovate, not only promises, but also commits that through fundamental democratic reform, which is currently being introduced, the administration will gain continuity and effectiveness, attributes required in the current circumstances. Greece is indeed entering the category of modern states. Independence by the Central Government shall be ensured in a simple and perfect way, by establishing a National Register of Executive Officers, established in a transparent, equal and democratic manner, with a specific mandate and criteria for scientific adequacy and professional morality. It is an original structure for the Greek society and it will soon prove to be the basis for the success of the reform project as a whole. At least we all admit in the words that it is partisanism, which is the main inhibitor for a modern administration. It is precisely this innovation that puts a definitive end to the long-term resilient and self-produced phenomenon of party hug of public administration. Because all the parties to this day's power was, in fact, at the heart of the current situation, which allowed their parties easy and almost universal access to the administrative machine, no individual administrative reform was able to achieve despite in some cases sincere intentions and efforts. The reason was obviously that they could not and did not want to sever the umbilical cord of public administration from the party. I would briefly and briefly like to mention what a new ambition is to bring about, of course, the new institution of the national register. Firstly, the new government staffing methodology will be able to make use of modern tools for selecting people. As you know, the criteria and selection methodologies have long been the subject of scientific research which can also be used in our country. Secondly, because the reference made by the senior official to society rather than to the party, the sense of social responsibility of senior and senior management will be developed. Thirdly, the realisation of the government's political choices will be better and more reliable. Fourthly, the administrative system will make a significant contribution to productive development if an objective and not a favourable assessment system for investment proposals is established. Fifthly, citizens' confidence in the administration, choices and suggestions will increase. Sixthly, the forces of work in public administration will be revived. Of course, it does not miss us that no system can be perfect at first instance. Above all, it does not miss us that there will be reactions and undermining, for which we have to warn the legitimate citizen, at the same time that we are committed to preventing and combating them. It is certain that the old political system will react. Especially the traditional party establishment, which maintains - and for as long as it maintains - regressions to power is certain to undermine this system, precisely because it knows that its establishment will directly threaten the foundations of its own existence. Also, all kinds of political colouring will react, intertwining state-runners. For us to overcome the reactions is the second big bet. The treatment of these rectifying resonances will take place with the consolidation of the new institution and, when it has proved in practice its great value. And, of course, the immunisation of the reforms - together with a democratic dialogue - must also involve possible future constitutional revision. With this draft law, ladies and gentlemen, there is literally one of the favourite arguments of Opposition: The argument about SYRIZA's allegedly relapse in the state with a view to the partitioning of the administration. What will those who, judging by their own, see conspiracy everywhere, bishops and invasions of children of the party tube? I wondered what the various political forces would say these days. It was not difficult to imagine that the New Democracy colleagues would find something bleak and dark, moving within the logic of what they would do themselves. And the rapporteur of the New Democracy confirmed that, in fact, moving between a skin criticism, a nostalgia for a system that he otherwise confessed to being a failure and, of course, a projection of the private sector's advantages, which I believe is a special response to tomorrow's positions. However, the reaction of the well-thought-out and usually open to democratic and modernising colleagues, which will be what? Will they take the courage to recognise that a deep democratic incision is being proposed, that this draft law opens the way for a genuinely new type of public administration with deep democratic features? Specific proposals are expected. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that this draft law does not simply highlight the time-consuming deep democratic spirit of our prolongation, which, with such a slightness, some people here are trying to degrade. We are proving our sense of responsibility to the future of this place. This and the rest of our choices are slowly building up and will continue to build what we guaranteed from the beginning, that at the end of the four-year period we will deliver another better Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u120	I interrupt the interesting interactive tetex - a - Nikos Voutsi and Maki Voridis. Mr. Voridis, please come to Stepma. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, very interesting improvements have been made. Article 32 shall be deleted; Article 41 shall be deleted; Article 45 shall be deleted; Article 48 shall be deleted; Good thing you stopped there. There's hope for something left of the rest of the bill. Of course, when a explanatory statement starts, which says: "Public administration in our country today incorporates a malfunctioning, bureaucratic and inefficient mechanism, depreciating its productive human resources, without modern staffing policies, without modern socially responsible and functionally productive management tools, a mechanism that is weak to process and carry out public policies and generally to carry out its public tasks". And suddenly I started feeling SYRIZA! For I say 'what a good thing is said in this explanatory statement'? Mr Colleague, unfortunately it did not last long!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u122	You have no fear. Don't be afraid!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u123	Why didn't it last long? Because then I read some very interesting provisions, which I think are precisely in the spirit of the explanatory statement. One of these was, for example, the withdrawn Article 32, as well as Article 35, ladies and gentlemen. The Press Office of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction is recommended retrospectively - in the context of modern and operational management, I imagine - from 23-9-2015 to two additional posts of journalists in private-law employment, in the context of the new government, published in this bill. But also in Article 36, which has now been reshaped, because this has been recast - there remains a criterion for the employees who have now been made redundant and their return - what? - the Minister's decision, because it does not matter what the Staff Board says, in the context of the elaboration and elaboration of the administration. Those of us who like them come back, but we have a simple opinion of the Staff Board. And take note of the fundamental contradiction: in four articles below, there is, of course, no Minister's decision. Right there! There is only the decision of the Board of Directors. Why has this not been done, so that we can go to the administration's rationalisation? Of course, after all this was the conclusion of what was withdrawn, Article 48. Where's Mr. Lappas? He's gone. It is a pity, because the man has been fanatically defending Article 48 in committee, with extensive legal arguments, with great analyses, with references to the texts of Mr Samuel's Rules of Procedure, in a nice classic book we have on appeal. There, then, one is taught - I tell the younger SYRIZA colleagues - to take care of what he stands for his government, because often the MPs, breaking their clothes into an inspiration for defence of the Government, end up listening to their Government saying 'Let it go back, I take it back, forget it'. This was the case here in the context of the scandalous Article 48, which essentially "opened a window" of mass simulations in cases in which illegal recruitment, illegal placements and there had been legal means to remain civil servants, who should not remain in these positions by contracts, which were completely airborne. There it was deducted - that was Article 48 - the obligation to appeal to those legal persons, namely the local authorities, to the municipalities to whom these appeals were due. And - worse! - What was provided for in Article 48? He predicted that in outstanding persecutions for those who had made such positions, in violation of their duty, he intervened and gave them the impunity. Luckily, he's retired! Both Articles 32 and 48 New Democracy - SYRIZA are 2-0, thankfully for the country! Fortunately these withdrawals were made, because exactly these were scandalous provisions. What else does this bill have, however, in addition to the withdrawal of scandalous provisions that disguise the Syrian and governmental masturbations? He's got the record. Here's what the Minister says, because he wanted to point out a contradiction: 'You are criticizing the register'. Really! Why are we criticising the register, ladies and gentlemen? Because we believe that the Secretary-General, in our view, and in line with the wording in the law itself, remains a political body, that is to say, responsible for implementing a policy, so he should remain a political person. That is our view of the Secretary-General. And if anyone would want to turn him into one - which is a thought, I accept it - at the top of the administrative hierarchy, then he had to anticipate another process of administrative development rather than this. This is our objection to the Secretary-General. We have a second objection, which, in our view, is very important and which is not ideological, is functional. Who is she? You don't open the register in the private sector. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr. President, do I have time?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u124	One minute you have it, just like the previous ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President. He says in his argument: I do not open it because I want to make the most of the public administration officials. It's an internal case. This is a case within the administration. So why are there from the private sector? But this concerns legal persons and legal persons governed by public law, who, regardless of who controls them, came out of the narrow core of the public in order to perform another function, because we needed greater flexibility, because they had to come out of the narrow rules of the internal hierarchy of the State. This became an administrative choice because the legislator then, when he created these legal persons, recognised the intrinsic malfunctions of the public. That is why it must also be from the private sector. The Minister and the government disagree on this. Yes, sir. After he disagrees and believes his legislation, why doesn't he apply it immediately? He says the register will be ready in June, then go September. Why does he move the app two years later? Are you convinced of legislation? Are you saying you're doing well? You're saying it's right to regulate? Why don't you apply it immediately? Even - beware - in the amendments it is getting worse, so that there is no legal improvements and no problem! What's he saying? If it gets vacant and no position until then, attention, we will supplement it with the old legislation not with the new one, the one I recommend that Parliament vote on! God forbid, do not apply the regulation I bring to Parliament today! And I'm ending up with a word about the evaluation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u126	Shut up, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u127	No quota assessment, the one recommended as Minister of New Democracy President Kyriakos Mitsotakis is not an evaluation. Let's not be fooled. Introduce counter-reformation. You recommend returning to the worst practices of the Greek government, to the worst practices of the administration and abolishing the important effort, which had been made over the past period.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u128	But please, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u129	That is why we are voting fanatically and committed to this bill!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u130	Mr President, we will take our time as well...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u131	Mr President, Mr Voridis has spoken for three minutes. Me the other day, they took my soul off!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u132	Dear Alexandre, two minutes and seventeen seconds, Mr. Voridis spoke more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u133	Mr. Comrade, I was hoping you'd appreciate some things instead of complaining about the little matter of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u134	Mr. Voridis, will you now fight for time? Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to start from what Mr Vorides said, not from the contents as much as from '2-0', which he said, and say that during this period it is 2-0, because there have been previous periods. Within the framework and the cooperation government that we had withdrew. This means there's a pathogen to anyone who's in these chairs above. I demanded the withdrawal of provisions from Mr Mitsotakis' bill for the abolition of bodies, the redundancies, the evaluations, which were subsequently accepted by the Ministry's leaders that my view was correct. There is a general pathogen that has to do with the legacy. This happened last Friday. Two months ago I found Mr. Blonde, from whom I asked for timely legislation to continue the medical coverage of those covered by Law 4254/2014. I put a question to the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Health and the previous Sunday, when I met him at a television station, namely that "the article, as you have formulated in the so-called parallel programme, is nothing, it does not cover the great mass of people who are insured in funds but have lost their insurance capacity". I did the same during the debate on Friday and Saturday. You remember that, if you like, I put this view forward. Then many protested the tension. It was a fact that my passion, to show that it was not right, led me to have more intensity than the conspiracy. But it didn't take forty-eight hours and I was entitled. The 'fuss' of the so-called parallel medical care programme has been dug, Mr President. Last night, the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Security, Mr Petropoulos, issued a circular - and rightly so - addressing the administrations of all the Funds under number 4612/164/22-2-2016, two days after the vote on the parallel programme, which urges the administrations of the insurance funds to continue the medical treatment of these people, which are tens of thousands - not to say hundreds of thousands - until the necessary legislative regulation has been made to extend the term of validity of Law 4254/2014. On Friday, Mr. Xanthos could not hear me, even on Saturday, saying: “Find children, why does this man shout? Does he have a psychological problem and he yells? I was asked by Mr Carras: 'Should you be overreacting?' I said to him: 'Mr. Carra, here you are' and the man said to me: 'You are right'. Can't the'ministers' see that? I say this because they look at us from a high point of view when we make proposals to them. That is why I used the word 'Ministers'. So I'm on my way...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u136	The word 'Ministers' is 'Ministers' in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u137	Yes, Mr President, 'Ministers'. Well, don't look at us from a high point of view.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u138	Max.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u139	Go ahead, Mr. Kegeroglu, because you won't have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u140	I'll get it, Mr. President. I'll talk about the reforms. I would like to say, first of all, on the question of administration, that he was killed with Kapodistrias, when he founded the Greek state, in his first steps, and since then he has been continuously murdered, with small or large murders, legislative and not today and yesterday and the previous years. We have to say that all of us. At the same time, however, we must recognise that the major changes that have taken place and which have not only topical content, but are also the pillar today of the public administration, must be an example of the future reforms. Reform is not a random change in regulation of matters for a sector. Progressive reform is non-reversible change, which becomes irreversible by things, which are governed by the values of justice, democracy, transparency and, of course, efficiency. Such changes have been made many times in this place, but they have not been followed up. It is not a change, for example, on the basis of the assessment of compulsory dismissal, which says that there are 15% of the bad students in the classroom - who, as an instructor, together with Manolis - but they are not the reforms which are currently being carried out by the regulations you are doing, colleagues of SYRIZA, with the derogations that are constantly being applied. By way of derogation, the recruitment of hospitals, because we have not been prevented by way of derogation from the regulations. These are not reforms. These are the remedial effects of a time which, unfortunately, seems to be essential today. No, it's not necessary. If there is faith in democracy and transparency, all of this is not necessary. I would point out, therefore, that the AACC, ladies and gentlemen, is an irreversible change. The question has come to an end, if there is self-respect, of the introduction into the public administration of staff of human resources. However, there was no such arrangement - and indeed constitutionally guaranteed, in order to make it irreversible - on the question of evaluation and promotion. So all the legislations that came, other with more and less justice, changed by the next Minister, considering that he will be the great reformer who will stay in history. First of all, I have to say that a bill that wants to introduce reform and contains other provisions, both rousphetological and non-necessary, is not reform. The Minister who believes in the reform puts a brake on it and does not accept any amendment of the type that has come to us, namely the other provisions and regulations. I say this because if you take legal texts from the time of the Freedom Venizelos, you will see how they legislated, how they looked after and respected a process and a reform before. It's something to study. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that the draft law introduces some positive ideas, such as the establishment of the Executive Register. It would be a big change if we did include it exclusively in the ADP. I do not mean that the AACC should be involved in the process, as it does, but this whole process should be within the AACC. That would be a big change. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Of course, merit, assessment and reformist element of regulation and, more generally, the bill, are colloquiums. I mean, he couldn't stand the temptation to get the interview. The interview, whether it is 'green', is 'blue' or 'roze' - or I don't know what - is not an element of sovereignty.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u141	Finish, Mr. Kegeroglu, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u142	The second - and I conclude - is that it is being transferred to the future. In other words, it could be said that this bill introduces a reform of the law, because of concrete interventions and transfers it for the future as well. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-eight students and students and four educational attendants from the 1st High School of the beautiful Corfu. The House welcomes you! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Although I risk being accused of being indirectly justified by Mr Vernardakis, you will allow me to tell you - for the twenty-two years that I am in this Chamber - that it is not necessarily considered to be wrong if the ministers of any government, having been persuaded by the complaints of colleagues from the opposition and sometimes government MPs, are withdrawing articles from their bill in this House, in plenary, rather than what you said, Mr Kegeroglu, that is to say vote on the next day. It's not necessarily bad. That is what I wanted to say as an experience.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u144	Mr President, I would like to speak for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u145	Mr. Kegeroglu, you can't take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u146	I referred to Mr. Bernardakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u147	Mr. Kegeroglu, I'm sorry, but you don't have the floor. Don't embarrass me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u148	I want the floor to refer to Articles 97 and 39...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u149	You don't have the floor. I let you talk for nine minutes. Your parliamentary representative can tell you. Give it to him after. Mrs Manolakou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u150	The Government argues that this draft law introduces the concepts of modernisation and merit into the choice and staffing of the public. However, the bourgeois state is neither neutral nor balanced. It represents the dictatorship of capital and is thus structured. And when needed, it exacerbates with authoritarianism and repression to satisfy the needs, interests and demands of capital. Many suffer to live richly and gain a handful of capitalists. These interests are served by you too. For example, key roads were privatised by laws. People pay tolls to pass on to them. Of course, these laws have not been passed by the SYRIZA Government, but you maintain them, and you increase them. You gave 300 million euros - for free, free money - to make up for losses to the toll makers, because less people would go out to pay tolls. You did not, however, make up for the reduced unemployment benefit or reductions in low-pensions. You're cutting off the NSA. Ask a simple man, a popular man, what he thinks about public administration. What's he gonna tell you? He will tell you that he is suffering from a lack of staff - people are being trained to get a piece of paper, just to solve problems, to get his pension which is two and three years late or to take care of his health, since there are huge waiting lists - of course, he suffers from privatisation of state and free services, from shortcomings in education, schools and so on - not to mention them. Will you tell me: "Now with SYRIZA have appeared?" No, of course, they were ahead, but they were intensified because there is reactivation in the economy and in total in the capitalist system. It is wilder, unmatched, shows its barbaricity and rottenness, the greater and more heated exploitation of the working class and popular strata. The urban state is neither polemic nor neutral, it is classic. Therefore, any evaluations you do, under no circumstances do you aim to satisfy the people's needs. You are simply using new tools for the same anti-grass policy, with a sauce reserved and other pre-served with'sectors', 'excellence', 'dismanding', 'effectiveness'. The point is that the urban state serves the needs and requirements of capital, which today has power through its parties, today SYRIZA - ANEL, yesterday New Democracy - PASOK etc. Does the urban state not abolish rights conquered by struggles and blood to further strengthen capital, such as the abolition of eight hours, collective agreements, the abolition of permanent and stable work and so on? Here public services and the general public and the OTAs with five-months work in many cases unpaid for a long time. Five months, does a man need a diet? In this, then, the bill, which is a "child" of the third memorandum, creates new tools. Enter the National Register of Public Administration Executives for an objective selection of government managers, as you say. However, the Special Selection Board, which you recommend for this purpose, is an advisory body. The Minister finally chooses. At the same time, the candidates' interview has a decisive role to play and can effectively overturn qualifications, due to the many molecules it has. But also in this reactionary state control of civil servants, called ‘assessment’, which is directly linked to the effectiveness of public administration and the wage evolution of civil servants, who sets the targets and what criteria? Let me tell you! Last week I visited the Prasinos Service in the Municipality of Nice. Staff is lacking, and it's not enough. Great are the shortcomings. And next to two young children, who ended the five-month period and wondered why they wouldn't be kept and not persecuted if they needed staff. And I ask you this: for tools and infrastructure, what do they have? What about the answer? Running who gets the scissors or the cut-off saw. How will you assess these people? Or would it be the alibi to privatize? I guess your policy needs to be sawn. Due to time, I will not talk about other articles, but I will talk about the two amendments tabled by the JRC and defends rights of civil servants. It concerns secondary school staff and public IEK graduates lasting two years. It provides that these civil servants should be treated accordingly, such as PPP or TLT category employees, and that therefore the time required for their grading development should be reduced by two years. The other amendment solves the problem of workers in the public company 'Building Infrastructures S.A.', who, although they have been justified by the courts and recognise contracts of employment as unrestricted, are still working as contractors. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, I would remind you that the previous law on evaluation, established by the New Democracy and the PASOK, was left on paper because there was a mass reaction of civil servants. This message must be experienced, that the coordinated mass struggle brings results. However, it is not enough against a law, but in the whole policy that brings memorials, poverty, refugee, misery, that is, the break and overthrow of capitalist barbarism. Thus, there is hope to build a state for the people and their needs with permanent and stable work, with dignity wages, with health, education, welfare exclusively public and free, cultural and sporting infrastructures for the people and not for the profits of business groups. In this state the people will dominate and deserve to fight organized, massively and to enforce it. I'm not saying it's an easy way. He's got sacrifices. But they have results of real popular prosperity. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u151	We close the first five speakers who were alternately one of each party, as you know, with Mr. Mavrotas. Here, Mr. Blacks, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr President. I'm used to seven and not five, but it's okay. So we are discussing today a bill on the depopulation of public administration, which was one of the requirements of the August Agreement. In general, it is a bill that also has good elements, such as the National Executive Register, the evaluation, the enhanced role of the AACC. But it also has the usual pathogens, which we have used to, with the microdisciplines and the rumors primarily in chapter V. A key question, which has already been raised, is the time to implement what is positive. They shall be referred in substance to 2018. Why this dead time? Are we now voting on them to say that we are moving towards the demilitarisation of the state machine, but are we referring the application to the bells? And in the intervening period we can close our eyes to the appointments of the "mother", as we well know how to do! But let's start from the National Staff Register. The utility of the National Register could be optimised if it married with a digital organizational chart, where there would be mapping of all public services. In Potami we believe that in the state the line between political power and administration must be clear. Having a Secretary-General from our administration, he finds himself in agreement and will then contribute to the state. In other words, at the level of the Secretary-General, we must draw the line and not have regional training directors selected by the political leadership. However, I would like to make a comment on the first chapter on ‘National Executive Register’. In Article 8(4), management bodies of sporting organisations are excluded from this law. For artistic and cultural bodies, I understand that, but for sports bodies why? To command, for example, a sports centre must be a friend of the Minister concerned or be a prominently selected state employee? What's better? I know the answer very well. You ask yourself. In the second chapter we are talking about evaluation systems. Evaluation makes sense, when it comes to improving the system, because you have to measure something first so that you can improve it. Therefore, the evaluation must be geared to motivation and improvement rather than to be punishable, as we have seen in the past with specific walls that must move under the base. We saw it recently. Nor does the evaluation that everyone gets 'excellent' makes sense, for it is wrong for the people who are truly competent and friendly to act on the ground. Equal opportunities and justice means 'all equals in the starting line' and not 'equals in the finish line'. In my opinion, the majority of civil servants are in subordinate positions, precisely because there is no merit, and that is the major objective: How to restore the dignity, which is the driving force of any system. However, if one is repeatedly assessed in most of the criteria referred to in Article 17 as ‘inappropriate’, that is to say, from 0 to 24, what will it have? "Nothing" says the Minister. "He will be made recommendations, an effort will be made to improve by training, a change of position or psychological support if necessary." Why are we afraid to say that if a person is repeatedly considered "inappropriate", he must leave? Or we will admit that the evaluation system proposed is objective and fair, so when it is considered 'inappropriate' it is indeed inappropriate. In other words, there is no political persecution behind it, as those in favour of maintaining perpetuality are claiming, even for those who do not want to work. So anyone who says that the lifting of perseverance is dangerous and demonizes it, because someone can fall victim to political persecution, then does not believe that the proposed system is objective. So decide what you want to apply. The message that goes through that, "After having punctured me, no one moves me, no matter what happens", is an inappropriate message, if we really want to improve the public sector, on the one hand, because it acts corrosively within the services and, on the other, because it denies the ability of qualified young people to enter the public sector by upgrading the services. In the other provisions, Article 36 has also been mentioned by previous speakers, for those who have completed the thirty-five years ago, sixty-seven years ago, they can continue to work if the relevant Minister wants. On the other hand, Article 43, which expressly refers to judicial officers, has that competence. What's more normal? Why does the Minister have this responsibility for all other civil servants and not for the Service Council? Once again, SYRIZA raises the minister to a supreme judge of everything. We saw it in the television licenses, in the bill on court violence, and we see it here. The explanation I am giving is: so that it has the authority over officials, that it is up to the Minister, so they also owe the Minister. Chapter V will not comment on it. It has several provisions, as I said before, of rhetorical provisions. The Minister withdrew some of them and good for him. We have tabled an amendment to abolish the Chochazopoulou Law, which has been in force since 1985, because we believe that ministers can work with the appropriate officials from the public administration. This will also help the public administration, then contributing to its effectiveness, because if all the Minister's partners are posthumous and leaving the Minister, they are also leaving, you understand that the thread of administrative continuity is lost in the ministries. There is an issue of education in an amendment, in the pan-Hellenic PSAL examinations, and I should like to mention this on this occasion. While in the pan-Hellenic examinations of general high school if one loses one lesson, one has the opportunity to give it back, the PSAL examinations do not apply and the corresponding opportunity should also be given there. In conclusion, therefore, dignity in public administration is one of the main demands. A step is taken with this bill or rather not the step is taken, but we tie the strands to take the first step, as it will be fully operational in 2018. The samples that SYRIZA has given us to the state's staff are fragmentation on the block. And if we go back to Google, we'll see a lot of subordinate appointments. Generally Google is a great witness and this doesn't like it. In fact, some wrote that Google is an enemy of SYRIZA. But not the best kids, because a few hours later they were arrested for blackmail. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. We hope that this draft law will be the principle of state colonisation, even if it is shameful that we have been imposed on us outside, instead of deciding on our own. So the good of the bill will be backed up, hoping that it will be implemented quickly and correctly. What worse you can do in public than you have done so far and what the previous ones have done with its plundering. Being the state spoil of the respective government is our country's main pathogen. To paraphrase a familiar phrase from September last year: 'the state as a spoil of the parties or we will finish it or end it'. The river, then, has proved it. This fight will be in the front. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u153	Thank you. After Mrs Kerameau, who now has the floor, she asked me for the floor - and, of course, she will - the Minister. We will continue as we have said: three colleagues and one parliamentary representative. I would just remind you, Minister, of the amendments, of which you are accepting and of which you are not.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u154	I don't have all of them, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u155	As many as you have and you can answer tonight. You'll be able to do it tomorrow morning, but if for some you can, especially ministerial or colleagues, say a word. That'd be good. Or tomorrow. Mrs Keramea has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we really had the hope that this draft law would be a field of consensus for us. And I say this for the following reasons: Firstly, because of the title of the draft law, announced: 'Transparency, merit and efficiency of public administration'. This is because the dignity, transparency and efficiency of public administration are key pillars of our programme and our policy in general. Secondly, the government's communications on the objectives of the draft law which was being prepared, but also the report on the report, had created expectations that this draft law could give solutions to the generally bad public texts, that it could be an important step towards improving the functioning of the public administration, improving the organisational and institutional capacity of the state, both at central and regional level. But with disappointment, ladies and gentlemen, we have seen that these objectives are not served by this draft law. We are therefore in another case, which is very disparate between an announcement of the Government's intentions, good titles and declarations and real legislative content. This piece of legislation is a long way from the genuine and substantial interventions that the public administration needs. And I will substantiate my position with specific examples. Allow me, however, to quote a reference to procedural matters, which highlights serious issues of substance. First, Minister, the bill, which was put into public consultation in December 2015, had thirty one articles. Suddenly, when the bill was submitted to the parliament late on the night of 3 February, only twenty-four hours before it entered for discussion in the committee responsible, the bill no longer had thirty articles. It also had a whole new fifth chapter, consisting of twenty-three articles, which had never been put into public consultation, in breach of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Second point of order, for many of these provisions of the fifth chapter there is no report from the General Accounting Office of the State, there is no cost, in breach of both the Rules of Procedure of Parliament and the Constitution. We therefore have no idea of the real economic costs of the measures to be voted on. And I ask, Minister: why is there no cost? Why did not the necessary evidence have been provided to the General Accounting Office of the State? I'm on my way to the substance of the draft law. First Axis: National Register of Public Administration Executives. I'll be honest. The establishment of the registry is an innovation in the functioning of the public administration and on conditionality could help to strengthen the public's potential. I say this, as criteria are laid down for entry in the register, the obligation to issue a qualified notice on the qualifications of the position and the qualification procedure of the three most prevailing, of which the Minister will then choose and will still be provided for a four-year term of office for these posts. But, ladies and gentlemen, this register has four major structural problems which, unfortunately, are canceling the register in its origin. The first structural problem: The planning of the registry excludes access to experienced and established private sector human resources. Because, as is provocatively mentioned in the rapporteur's report - and I read from the rapporteur's report - you say, Minister, 'the public interest is better served by the body of civil servants'. But honestly, ladies and gentlemen of the government, why such an idea against the private sector and the private economy? Do you think that experienced business executives, scientists, private researchers, experts, of all kinds of trained professionals, who exist in Greece and abroad, would not serve the public interest? Could they not bring their knowledge and experiences in order to improve the performance, in many cases, of public administration? You are therefore choosing an internal administration, limited to the public sector, without the possibility of influxing best practices and new knowledge. You finally choose, ladies and gentlemen of the conflict, an archaic, isolated administration, with limited efficiency. The second structural problem of the registry: Exclude from the scope of the register the positions of the staff members in autonomous general secretariats. Minister, Article 6. What's the point? Why should we have two standards? If you really believe the model, which you are proposing, if you really believe in the demilitarisation of public administration, then why do you not apply it to all the general secretariats, but only to some? And to tell things by their name, the danger that lies here is clear. Suddenly unsuccessful general secretaries, which will not fall within the scope of the register, and then in these cases the selection of a party executive will be required. Third structural problem in the register. You provide for the possibility of renewing another four years of selected registry in positions of responsibility. But for it, the renewal process, Minister, you do not establish any specific criteria or a specific procedure. And I reach the fourth and major structural problem in the register. You are preparing this famous register, which you think will lead to the dismantling of public administration, the reorganisation of public administration. It has been said before. You are, however, planning to implement it now only for the vacant posts - which, of course, we all know that there are no vacant posts - while the general application of the register is referred back to July 2018, and indeed many of the positions concerning the register have been paid within the last two months, while the draft law has already been put into consultation. Minister, gentlemen, if you really want the demilitarisation of public administration, why do you not apply this register immediately or in any event when it is technically possible to implement it? You yourself, Minister, told the committee - and it is to your credit - that many of the members appointed by the SYRIZA Government in these posts do not fulfil the conditions of the register. But then, Minister, one more reason why not apply this register immediately? Because otherwise it would mean that you will designate your own people in all positions, as has been done so far, and who will be the only ones to be assessed - a prerequisite for you to be able to choose for the register - so you will oblige any next government to implement your own register, whose executives will only be the persons you have designated. Minister - your attention, please - I am clear. We want the demilitarisation of public administration. We want to strengthen the human resources of public administration and we would be prepared to review our attitude to the draft law under three conditions. The first is the immediate application of the registry for all posts. Immediately. The second condition would be the possibility of private sector staff being involved in the register. And the third condition - which you have thankfully fulfilled, but not enough - was the withdrawal of this provocative - scandalous thing I would say - Article 48, which I will speak about shortly. Second sector. System of evaluation and targeting. Ladies and gentlemen, the introduction of a fair and objective evaluation and effective targeting system is essential. However, we also see in this chapter the legality of provisions, without any real objection. And I'm explaining. Firstly, for the evaluation system. This is an antiquated system which neither too much nor very much restores the logic of dd 318/1992. But, ladies and gentlemen, have we waited so long to finally see a backbone of a system that was in place twenty-four years ago? Is that the modernization of the system? The scope and criteria remain the same as in the Presidential Decree of 1992. What's changing? Some changes in the verbal and rating scale. Instead of saying 'twelfths', we say 'thousands'. But, ladies and gentlemen, the greatest pathogenicity of the proposed system is the fact that it fails to cope with the pathogens of the former system. And what was the greatest pathogen? That everyone in the public sector was rated "excellently". Does the bill you've brought solve this problem? No, he can't solve it. With the system that you enter for the vote, all civil servants in the public sector, with 'perfect', with 'ten' or now with 'thousand', can again be assessed. In addition, there is no provision at all for dealing with the problem, for example, internal control or any provision for sometimes incomplete implementation of the evaluation. Second, targeting. This isn't the first time we've been talking about targeting. This procedure is identical to that introduced by a Law of 2004 and never applied. In any case, it is important to provide for a targeting process, but what matters is not just an empty letter. There must be mechanisms for monitoring the degree of achievement of objectives, for correcting any discrepancies, and here there is none of them. So targeting is an empty letter. Third area. Gravity of positions, promotion system. Here too, two main remarks. Firstly, the particularly favourable treatment accorded to the graduates of the National School of Public Administration, both as regards introductory terms and as regards the time required for service development, which creates inequalities within the body of civil servants. Secondly, with Article 26, Mr Minister, while you are acknowledging the service in the private sector - before the appointment of up to seven years in a relevant subject - no payroll is attributed to this service, but no payroll is attributed to it. And I ask: what is the importance of recognizing the service in the private sector? Fourth axle. A selection system for heads. Two brief remarks. Firstly, there is an anachronistic concept of molecules collection, through qualifications and continuing training and not so much through work. Secondly, you are once again graduating the graduates of the National School of Public Administration provocatively, thus making it forbidden to claim responsibility for experienced officials with many years of service. Finally, I come to the famous Fifth Chapter, which is the greatest proof of the fact that the candidate draft law is another manifestation of the bilingualism of the government. Under the heading ‘Other provisions’ there is aggregation of unsolved provisions, a group of numbers, a number of photographs, an extract from the parallel programme, as introduced to the House in December and subsequently withdrawn. I also intended to refer to Articles 32 and 48, which I consider to be the most clearest. And I am very pleased, Mr Minister, that you have withdrawn these. And I am delighted that these were really unprecedented provisions. In 32, in which you were entitled to extract, distribute, place from the Ministry and vice versa to legal persons and subsidiaries of such companies, by way of derogation from the common provisions, without an opinion from the Staff Board and before the end of the probationary period and 48, which was an unprecedented provision, both due to the permanentisation of officials from the window, in breach of provisions of the AACC and the intervention of the legislator in pending proceedings. But, Minister, a request. I hope we don't see Article 48 in another piece of legislation. I would remind you that Article 48 had appeared in the parallel programme, which was withdrawn, as it appeared in this bill and withdrew. I hope that we will not see it again in any legislation or amendment. I will speak in detail tomorrow on the other articles in Chapter V, as well as on the amendments which prove to be extremely interesting. I close with this: Minister, ladies and gentlemen, remember the mandate you have received. You are the government of all Greek citizens and with your policy you must ensure the interests of the whole society and not just some of your supporters. If you prove in practice that you want to put an end to the concept of the party - state, if you accept, for example, the self-evident thing, that is to say, immediately apply the register that you yourself are establishing and allow it also self-evident, that is to say, the participation of private sector officials, then we could rethink our attitude towards this bill. Otherwise, I am afraid, once again, that we are faced with the bilingualism of the government, which dresses up with elegant concepts, with strong sensitivity - I would say - its legislation, so that it can adopt - from the back door - the wishes of party officials. Last April this ruthlessness was called the restoration of injustice.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u157	Finish, Mrs. Keramea.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u158	I shall conclude, Mr President. Last week was the acceleration of the government's work, and today this is called democracy and transparency. Prove to us, then, that you really want to dismantle public administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u159	The Minister has the floor, Mr. Bernardakis. I'm putting you in normal time, eighteen minutes. If you talk about the amendments - any amendments - you will also have a tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr President. It is better for the amendments to have an overall picture.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u161	Okay. So do your protology without the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u162	Thank you. I still think there are interesting remarks and positions and I think that we are in good faith here to legislate well. And in that sense I will make a position in relation to things that are heard, which are badly trusted. But let's start first from the bill. I would like to point out ten points. First of all, what do we want in public? It's a crucial question. For who? Questions are raised by the JRC colleagues. Answer. We want public in favour of people's needs and public interest. It's over. Secondly, what could we say are the elements that characterise this bill in relation to other legislative initiatives of the past? Because it is obvious that there have been other legislative initiatives and I would like to tell you at the outset that some of them have had very positive elements. It is not bad to recognise that. But what's the problem? The previous legislative initiatives were generally characterised by fragmentation of either political self-interest in order to replace the heads of government in one night or in a few nights, or because there was no single conception of the public policy on administrative reform, there was no legislation that would try to address the major issues of public administration as a whole. That's what we're trying to cure with this bill. The main bill contains four parts - I will tell you in particular about the other provisions - which are fully interconnected. From this point of view alone, I would expect this to be noted as one of the fundamental changes in the public administration legislation. Thirdly, how are we going to implement these features of the evaluation system, which we are talking about, in the Greek public administration and which some of the speakers present as unprepared, unscrupulous, dysfunctional and so on.Huh? Indeed, that is true and we must recognise that the Greek public administration is still bearing the burden of the previous legislative initiative on evaluation, which was not a reform but a profound counter-reformation. It was a counter-reform, which started from the position, that a large part of the public sector is useless, must be privatised, translated into functions and responsibilities outside the public administration and must be reduced either to responsibilities or to wage costs or to human resources. That was the reality. It has reached the unacceptable methodologically, Mr Voridis, a problem, to provide legislatively locked evaluation rates either positive or negative. That's a problem. You can ask anyone who deals with rating systems. Providing by definition that a 10% or a 15%, firstly, is outside the base you set, it creates a problem. Therefore, this has led to no evaluation system being adopted - the evaluation system - while there were clearly positive reports in earlier evaluation systems. The Greek public administration's problem therefore remained on this issue. Fourth point. Civil Service Executive Register. The register was designed as a mechanism, which includes the public sector in its records, namely, the area of responsibility of civil servants or civil servants with very specific qualifications, but not generally and indefinitely for very specific reasons. The aim is not a record of the country's human resources, which is clearly very important. And it doesn't just work in the public sector. Of course. He also works as a freelance professional, works in private businesses etc. However, what we are interested in, and what we are starting, is the exploitation and recording of the very good, skilled potential of the staff that this public sector has. Any other act leads to this distortion - if you like - of the public-private-sector limits, which you are talking about at the moment. But what business, what organisation when it needs to carry out an assessment of its powers, an economic scale assessment, will it start from another company, from another organisation, and not from its own? Is that possible? You raise the question of the private sector and you come back to this. Let's agree on something. Obviously there is a private sector - people who work in the private sector individually, as lawyers, as accountants - who are worthwhile and should be able to find a way to have a sense of osmosis with him. But that requires two basic things. The first basic thing that presupposes is that we need to build, so that we don't constantly evade the phenomenal phenomena of interlocutory, which no one wants to do - does it? - a special legislation, which responds to the great problem - which is not Greek, is global - of so-called'switching doors'. Where does the public sector, that is, the public interest, begins and starts to become a public-private sector-based commitment? This is a serious problem that we have to deal with. So we are not building a register that actually has the OAED register, which obviously has very good professionals, new worlds. Incidentally, this public problem needs to be addressed. Public and age and staffing have an old human potential. It's gonna have to retreat. Obviously there should be new jobs in the public sector. There can be no growth without a strong public sector. There is no market without a state. I think it's one of the basic ideas with which we have to confront. You're asking me. Why doesn't the public sector get from the private sector? I'm returning you. Why does the private sector not get from the public sector, as is happening in other countries of the world or, after all, in Greece for many years? There were public sector officials who, after a certain period of time, were well transferred to the private sector. Fifth, how will the institution of the interview be applied - has it been said by some - who is obscured and unreliable to the Greek political system? Obviously, the aim is not to rule him out. I mean, someone says, for example, we can rule out the interview procedure. But is that possible? On the one hand, we expose the private sector and its practices and, on the other hand, we say this new one. The problem is, and should we be very careful here? That we must not create a structural bias. For example, we have four major criteria in our choices of heads of state. Standard qualifications, pre-service, evaluation, interview. The big problem is not to create organic bias. In other words, we should have had the 70% interview, as provided for in some laws and even a Greek public administration which is injured by customer relations and by the party regime. How could we do that? We therefore need to set up a system that has the potential of self-regulation as to how it is going. To make sense. If it does not have that logic, then very easily it can constantly spread into practices either client-to-party or ministerial or so. How will it be ensured that targeting is carried out in a timely manner in order to achieve clear, objective and measurable targets at service level? Targeting is not treated as an end in itself, nor will we allow it to create - and we must not allow it to create - a stack of bureaucracy that sits on vital public functions and breaks down valuable resources. On the contrary, it is an aid and a tool for development and improvement, to respond to government officials, public people and its structures in their tasks and tasks, so that we can do not evaluate people but evaluate structures and produce projects. For whom? In the interests of public interest and of the people's needs. I just heard the JRC's dear rapporteur, who described a real situation. In the Municipality of Nice, the Department of Prasinos is in operation, there are two people, there are no people in it, etc. But that's the evaluation. If we want this particular service to make it better, make it work for the public local interest, we need to strengthen it. This is an evaluation file for this service. What financial and administrative incentives will be linked to the evaluation system? Is there going to be such a case? How will it be ensured that measures to improve staff are implemented? But we've answered it. But we're forgetting it. We replied that in the new payroll, what was voted in December, there were future forecasts for linking the evaluation to a more rapid wage development or to a rated development. Moreover, the new architecture of the rating is organically linked to the evaluation, since this good score brings a faster increase in the career system. And the big question arises. What am I supposed to do with the bad guys? I am very sorry, my view is clear. No civil servant, no worker, no employee must be afraid - and indeed from the state-run position - of his job. We must be absolute in that. We'll make him better, cut off our necks to train him, change his position, see how we can work. Why is that? Because there is no individual assessment. A man is bad or good not because he was born good or bad but because he works within a framework, works within a structure. He's not alone good or bad. Some treaty makes him good or bad.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u163	There's no individual skills? Individual abilities aren't there?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u164	Didn't you see them in the bill? Mr. Voridis, are we having a deaf conversation? I'm talking completely trustworthy. Honestly. Are we having a deaf conversation? So we didn't read that here we're trying to object, often in a bad way, why don't they all be objectively or not? Can we not do what we say, for example, efficiency? Why should we keep explaining these things? In some ways we must have some objective systems of monitoring the functioning of a public service. But this should be done by means of procedures to guarantee the interests, work balance and employment relations, that is, what legality defines. So, can we anticipate redundancies? In our opinion, it is the biggest crime we would have done, especially today in a public injured person who has left three hundred and seventy thousand people, who cannot meet the basic social needs that special education schools, nursery stations, Prague departments, and so on. I won't tire you, because I see that time is running out. I'm going to override a few things that I wanted to say. I want to talk about a number of issues that have been raised. First of all, I would like to talk about the Secretary-General. Watch out now. Here the New Democracy has a structural contradiction. It has a political contradiction, but it also has a structural contradiction. In other words, it says that 'I do not agree with the sense of the Secretary-General as an administrative top, but I demand that it be implemented now'. There's a contradiction. There is also a political contradiction, which has to do with the standing positions. What we knew and had been formally tabled by the New Democracy in the proposals for Constitutional Review was the abolition of the post of Secretary-General as a post and its replacement, precisely because it had the meaning of the administrative summit by the Director-General. We now have an oblique shift not in the direction of depopulation or colonisation, but in the direction of total partyisation, which says, as my colleagues have said, that the Secretary-General's position is a political one and that he must remain as such. By the way, and what's the secretary-general? The chief of the transmigrants. So we don't forget. Because otherwise we are also critical of how many posters there are, how many we do not have, how many we have and how many we would have and so on. And not only is he the leader of the poster, but he also has the ability and the ability to have posters. So there is a serious contradiction that you need to see. The second is the application time. There is a lot of talk about the time of application. I did a check on the implementation time. First of all, you are wrong to say that it is planned in June 2018. The arrangements provided for in the law are as follows: The register is established. Apparently, it's checked. It is in complete transparency and with all possible means of digitisation and open access to data - that is to say, let us not talk about it - as has been said, it applies from 1 August, that is, it ends - on 31 July, and from there begins to staff all open positions, those which have not been covered. And now you're going to tell me: The rest? The rest, therefore, on the basis of my audit to all legal persons under private and public law, say that 20% of these posts are for call in 2016 - that is, this year - and 65% in 2017. What was the logic? So it's not 2018. It is until 2018. Until then. Why until then? Because we had the big problem - and we need to have the great stress if you want us as a serious coordinate state - we really do not have to cancel the mandates of collective bodies. In other words, when we do that, we are critical of partyism. When we try to respect it, we are critical of why we are not doing so now, for something we disagree. Other provisions We have had an extensive debate in the committees as well, but here I am very disappointed, I would like to say to you, because some of the rapporteurs - not all of them fortunately - reiterated their protagonists at the first meeting, while there was a dialogue, they sounded good, badly trusted, and so on. I would therefore like to repeat the other provisions. 85% with 90% of the other provisions were the provisions of the Ministry, which concerned public administration. They were public administration issues and we were trying to deal with them as such. There are, indeed, some problems. With regard to Article 32, for example, which you are talking about and which you consider to be a reason not to vote on the bill, I would like to say that Article 32, and what it says, will come back to the Mobility Legislation? [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Two minutes, Mr. President. It says that we have had the opportunity within a ministry, together with its supervised bodies, to have a system of mobility by way of derogation, that is, by way of derogation from bureaucracy. This is done for reasons of power. Because the time has passed and indeed the bill has passed since the beginning of December or since the end of December - two months have passed - it does not have the character of an immediate application, this provision makes no sense. It will return and be submitted to the bill on mobility that will be discussed in the next few weeks. I shall refer to Rule 48. A criticism has been heard of Article 48. And here I would like to thank the President for his observation. So when the Minister doesn't listen, he's a bad guy. When he hears and actually tries to compose from wherever he hears and actually sees the reasonable or unreasonableness of an objection which is undoubted, he accepts 2-0. Mr. Voridis, besides football there's basketball. And in the rooking today, you're...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u165	Because Thursday plays Olympiacos - Anderlech, it suits us to 2-0.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u166	What are we? Say, what are we?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u167	You're in a negative indicator, because...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u168	You've been polling before.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u169	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u170	Take a look.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u171	What does that mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u172	Because you're talking about my class.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u173	For the ranking, I mean in relation to the basketball terms. Don't connect them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u174	The polls are set...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u175	That's a big deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u176	Don't open up that kind of talk now, Minister. Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u177	I shall therefore conclude with these conclusions. I would like to say to you, that the bill is trying to move towards a serious, coherent strategic change in the public sector on the basis of respect for work, respect for transparency, respect for democracy and the fact that it is possible for old and good legislative initiatives that have existed to integrate them. It will never enter into a process of repressive and abusive use of the public, which means redundancies, which means abusive assessment, which means a pretext for this idealism, which possesses a large part of today's political spectrum, which is called neoliberalism and less and less public, i.e. a lesser public interest and a greater extent of private non-economic activity.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u178	We start with three colleagues. I'm recognizing them. Mr Cavalellas, Mrs Maria Theleritis and Mr Georgiadis. Then Mr. Danellis will be followed. However, Minister, because you have given another interpretation of the time when the register is started, but it does not result from the verbal wording, if tomorrow's interpretation of it goes through in the corresponding article, because it says another thing. The way you gave the performance tonight, it's another thing. See if you can correct this in words tomorrow. Mr Cavalellas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr President. A few days after the coup in which the Constitution is improperly violated by the government, bypassing the Broadcasting Council, Mr. Poppas, as absolute rulers, passes on to himself and other responsibilities. It has brought us an amendment where he can identify the criteria that allow incoming public journalists, employed by ERT, the Secretariat-General for Communication and Information, the APB, to work in parallel with other media. This amendment effectively cancels L.4339/2015 and in particular Article 55(3). Therefore, through this amendment introduced, the powers to establish criteria for granting such a licence are transferred to the Minister's judgement, which is very natural now, given by the absolute lord, the Minister, only to the subordinate journalists. It is a Bonus malus system, like a point system, and it has a left mark because it is first imported by a left government. You have no sensitivity. You carry communist standards, perhaps from the past, and your ideas do not allow you to accept that democracy coexists with freedom of speech and, of course, with freedom of movement of ideas. I say this because I was in times hard to climb up into the mountains and set antennas as an illegal then. Nevertheless, the then government, despite being right, was more democratic than you, and has tolerated many things. So I tell you to think again where these authoritarian actions and tendencies may lead. However, a well-meaning interlocutor could invoke your democratic sensitivities. However, if one considers one of your behaviour, as far as national wide channels are concerned, 'we are deciding and ordering'. Four are the channels. The Florence report has said so. [[At this point the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, takes over the presidential office.]] I am therefore addressing the Greek people, who are watching us, because even to tell you, it makes no sense. Well, Greek people make fun of you about Florence's channels and exhibition. It's for flying, it's perforated. The truth is, they want to set up their own network of interlocutors. We as a party, some of these channels, which you want to close, have plunged us down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u180	Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u181	I will keep saying it, because the Greek people need to know the truth. We were dispersed, gentlemen. And I ask you, where were you, when they crossed us? Then they turned it around and said, 'You have no officials, Mr President.' Aren't we executives? We look unmarked, do we have any tails behind it? Are we janitors? Are we subordinates to you? So, where were you at the time we were being stricken and excluded from us? If you had democratic sensitivities and you saw that a party is fighting for some democratic values, you should contribute. I only saw you - not you personally, the party -...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u182	Unfortunately, this is what you stand for.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u183	We are defending the right of the Greek people, because the treatment we are asking for is the solution and not the pitfall. The public interest is best served by pluralism. I've lived in Italy. The Greek people may be ridiculed with some false leaves that you bring from Florence, but Italy has a hundred four national channels of which broadband, high definition, high-definition are twenty-four. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kavalis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We are prepared to lay down rules of pluralism with you, work on the quality, democratisation of television and not on the means to close down. Because whoever starts on television goes to the radio, then goes to the Internet, newspapers, etc. However, Mr. Poppa's attitude is arrogant. I believe he envyed the glory of the Bear that was throwing antennas at the time and looking in the mirror and imagined he was the North Korean Minister. Now, let's get to the point. You are establishing a perforated routine system of evaluation of public administration officials and you are asking us to vote on implementation today until 2018. I'll give an answer to why you put this so far. It is to feed with a horizon in 2018 and keep naive voters hostage, that by 2018 you will suit them somewhere and take care of them, as you know. As far as the performances are concerned, you are presenting a so-called arrogant system. There is, however, a condition providing that the candidate for a final position must have at least two years of evaluation. I mean, only whoever's already serving. And who serves today? Your children! Remove an objective evaluation criterion, that of the written examination and when selecting the head, a structured interview is held. There's a cheap excuse for being judged by a committee. What committee? Your committee. Nothing in writing. It's all oral. So no one can object. In addition, substantial private sector executives are excluded with the false claim that the public interest is best served by the officials from the public service body. You have a tendency to strengthen the public and consider the class of freelance professionals hostile. In any case, thank God you have deleted Rule 32. I'll mention it to show the character and the intent. There was therefore the intention of an emergency decision, i.e. a simple signature by the Minister, without an opinion from the Council, to carry out positions, secondments, settlements, etc. I'm not going too far because I don't have time. However, where I wish to draw your attention is that since Sunday we are practically out of Schengen, gentlemen, because the neighbouring states have closed the northern borders of the country. We note this because it is a bell like the one which the President is hitting and we are voting against at first glance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr Cavaldela from the Centron Association. Mrs. Maria Therleritis has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u185	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the draft law on transparency, democracy and efficiency in public administration. With the draft law which we are debating today, I would like to say, an incision to the public administration of our country, which has been experiencing a major structural crisis for decades, according to reports from a number of political scientists and experts since the 1960s, and referred to earlier by a colleague Varvaressos and other experts who have just identified the pathogens of public administration. It is a cut that responds to the SYRIZA programme for democratisation, public administration reform, because it aims to combat interoperable, corruption, bureaucracy and the customer state. What's his target? Its aim is to address the problem of partyism, to combat the customer logic, which for decades has dominated the procedures for entry into the public administration, to eliminate undivided sovereignty in the service development of employees. In other words, it seeks to overthrow the domination of the political sub-system against the administrative, which has been repeatedly highlighted and is trying to abolish what we are saying here in the Communism, which is one of the main, we would say, of the passivity to public administration. Ladies and gentlemen, as we all know, no serious attempt to reform public administration can be fruitful unless the problem of partyism is resolved, that is to say, if a treaty is not implemented that restricts the suffocating party domination, at the same time developing administrative power, if what many public administration scientists say reforming the balance of party and administrative power in favour of the latter is not achieved. So what is being attempted today has a dual objective. Firstly, the decisive treatment of partyism, secondly, the simultaneous development of the administration, that is, the administrative sub-system against the politician, namely the party. Because this is the only way that this reform can have a positive effect. It is also trying to implement another central strategy, which is to restore the organic unity of public administration, namely to integrate policy planning with implementation and control, namely, what we say to make the fragmented administrative material welded, which the previous governments have managed to structure in such a way that they give it to the private sector. What are the main pillars of the proposed project: Firstly, there is a new way of selecting officials in public administration, who will serve the main tasks. How is that possible? With the record. Secondly, it is attempting to radically displace the customer system and favorability, which has been governing public administration for years, through the evaluation system. Thirdly, with the rating, which is inextricably linked to the efficient and worthwhile functioning of the public administration, it is one of the most essential and fundamental organisational elements of the public administration. This is the grading structure of the positions. Fourthly, with the full replacement of the traditional and personal customer-based, political, parapolitical and other types of networks of the anarchist system of selection of heads through the system of selection of heads. Fifth, with the other provisions. With other provisions, we are not attempting to solve aristotle toys, but we are trying to deal with the immediate problems that need to be solved immediately in order for the public administration to function. These problems do not come from the rule of SYRIZA, but from your own governance, colleagues of counterpopulation, who have been in power for so many years. First, the National Register of Public Administration Executives what is it doing, what is it doing? To address one of the major public administration's problems, one of the main causes of non-existence, bureaucracy and inefficiency, which is clearly due to the choice of personnel with exclusively party criteria or criteria that favour organised interest groups and create misappropriations. It is noted that these practices - which are guaranteed through the registry, i.e. rules of transparency, which exactly exist in their selection - have been implemented with great success for decades in various European countries and these practices have ensured institutional memory and continuity in administration, because every time the state changes, the administration must continue to operate and serve the citizen. Also, for the first time a map of the anthropogeography of public administration is being created, where we will have a clear picture of the human potential per specificity, service, experience and formal qualifications available. Here I would like to focus on the criticism of the opposition regarding the register. The opposition says: 'Why don't we open up the private sector?' I ask: must any opening to the private sector ensure the public interest? Really, why is this insistence of the Opposition at any cost of opening up to the private sector? Should we ensure, or not, the public interest? And if we have to make sure, then we have to have a regulatory framework, yes or no? What if we need to have a regulatory framework, then there is no need to regulate private and public relations? Should this not be done by means of relevant legislation which clearly defines the terms and objectives? After all, life itself has proved - and in the public, we have very many examples - that these relationships, which have been irregulated so long, are always at the expense of the public. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Two minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u186	Two is a lot. Wait a minute and...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u187	I'm sorry, you'll give me two minutes. You've given nine to some others. Let us have many examples of this type. Posted consultants serving a post were later exploited for the benefit of own resources rather than the public. So it is our aim to guard the public and regulate these relationships. The second criticism that the New Democracy has to make regarding the selection of the Secretarys-General is ‘Political persons or the top of the administration pyramid’. I would like to remind you of the thirty-one proposals from the New Democracy for the Constitutional Review. You are proposing to abolish the institution of the Secretary-General of the Ministries and to increase the role of directors-general accordingly. It's proposition number 18. Today we see a regression in relation to this position. Why is that? Really, in relation to all this communication game you've shown with the poster over the last period, what do you suggest? Do you want the Secretary-General to be posted, in other words a political person? And then how will the relationship between the administrative and the political system be settled when we have all admitted that we want public administration to be phased out?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u188	Please complete your thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u189	I'll be done. For us, for the government, the young and the new Secretarys-General will now be a hybrid of the political and administrative system. It won't be what it was. It will now be the top of the administration that ensures and expresses continuity and institutional memory. Finally, I think that this should be resolved with a next legislative initiative by the Government, where relations with the political sub-system and with the administrative authorities will be regulated by the regulation of government bodies with organograms for the political offices. Finally, I would like to say in relation to the evaluation of two words.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u190	You've exceeded your time. Please, just complete your proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u191	Assessment not of individuals but of the production of work and structures. It goes without saying that the evaluation cannot be carried out without targeting and contouring, and that is what the Potamian colleagues should understand that it is self-evident in this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Mrs. Thalerite. You don't have any more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u193	I would just like to mention - and with that I am leaving - that Mr Vorides has said that there is no quota-free evaluation. This is not counter-reformation. It's deregulation and that's what you've achieved.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u194	Please, you don't have any more time. Thank you, Mrs. Thalerite. Mr Adonis Georgiadis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u195	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, unfortunately, when there is ideology in politics and we forget the reality, tragedies are taking place. We told you for a number of months when you were in the opposition. I remember at least fifty times - maybe more - listening to a SYRIZA MEP on the windows saying that we will open the border. And what will be the ones coming? We'll give them cards to go to Europe. Yes, sir. We told them that, "but if you give everyone papers to go to Europe, then Europe will close the borders and not just for them." "You are dangerous, you are exaggerated, you are out of reality." You came, you opened the border, you invited them, and you announced you'd give them papers. Don't move your head, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Panoussis, your Minister, who has given him a vote of confidence. And when Mrs. Tasia Christodoulou took out the six-month legal residence permit, I told her that she would come a million and she was not interested in it. This was in her interview with Mr. Kubara. So don't move your head. It's your fault of what we're living for! You're solely responsible! You opened the border and started the process. For what? Don't move your head! That's what you said, you're going to give them papers to go to Europe. You gave them the papers and you understand now! [[Noise in the Chamber]] Why am I talking about ideosy, Minister? He said that the quota is an ideality. Let's go see, first of all, why the quota came in to see if what you're bringing today will bring any kind of evaluation. The quota didn't come because he was a bad Minister and wanted to put the employees in a hardship. It came because in the past, as many evaluation attempts we had implemented to almost all of the Greek public, 99.9%, it was getting excellent. Maybe it was 100% and I went out to 99.9%. In fact, you will remember that we have also received a number of benefits, such as early attendance, all of which have been received - good work allowances - everyone has taken it. For what? Because no one had any kind of motive, interest or reason to sit down with his colleagues and make a real evaluation. What has the quota tried to bring, which is no idealism and is applied as a measure to some of the largest universities in the earth, such as Harvard University? You're saying Harvard University, which applies it, doesn't know? They didn't meet you there in Harvard to know it was an idea! They didn't know you! The previous government didn't find them. It is a measure that applies to other parts of the world with great success. You didn't want it for your election clientele, not for any other reason. You stopped it and brought your current system. By hand to the heart, do you think that it will have any impact on the public assessment of what you brought?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u196	It will be applied at least. Ours will be implemented.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u197	It will have no impact on the evaluation. An assessment that is not linked to wages, which is not linked to productivity, which is not linked to individual targeting, will not have any value. It's just to talk here and waste time. And you said before - and you made a great impression to me, Minister - that they do not exist - it says - individual assessments, they will all be in a context. You think so? Is that what you think? Are you all ministers as good in your government? Don't you have a better minister and someone a little worse? Are you all the same? You must be a team miracle! In all human sets someone has a skill above and a skill less. What you tried to do with the evaluation is to try to put these people in such a position. Now let's go to the second question. You asked what public we wanted. We want a public at the least cost to the taxpayer, so that taxes can be reduced as much as possible, with the best return for the State and society as a whole. That's what we want. As little as possible so that we can reduce taxes as much as possible with the corresponding productivity and efficiency as possible. That's what we want in public. Now let's go see how we get this done. I'm not saying it's an easy target. It's obviously a difficult target. First of all, making the public is by definition difficult. Usually the public is problematic throughout the planet. The public can't work well, especially if he's in trouble with business, but there's some people who found the way with real evaluation to put the good employees ahead. I ask you, Minister: today, with your own system, how do you motivate the good employee? Because there's a lot of good civil servants, too, excellent. I also ran the Ministry of Shipping and the Ministry of Health and found extremely good officials, as I found extremely indifferent. How can you stimulate the difference and make good an example for many? It doesn't happen with your own system either. That's where the quota came in. But now we're going to the big one. Did my previous colleague say that we do not want - he says - to determine the relationship with the private and public interest and to involve this with the register, which is our main difference? That you want to create a register in which only civil servants are involved, while we want to create a register where a private employee can enter, from the private sector, who is qualified and can also be chosen tomorrow for a great job. And the whole argument of my colleague and from what I understand, and yours is, 'Would we not defend the public interest?' I didn't understand why? Are private workers in the public interest in the public interest? Is that your idea? Are they indifferent?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u198	They have a conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u199	A conflict of interest is all private employees have? The civil servants don't have a conflict of interest? Huge! All the bag in public in conflict of interest is based. "I'm stalling you to get you money." You don't know that? Haven't you ever heard of this in your life?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u200	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u201	Oh, you don't know that. But how do you not know?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u202	I'm from another country!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u203	First of all, it's racist. So, can the public interest be defended only by civil servants and by us who are private sectors, we do not care for the public interest? Where did you see that written?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u204	Is that what I said?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u205	And how do you rule out, Minister, worthy people, Greek citizens who could offer public administration because you do not like the private sector? How do you explain that exactly? Why cannot anyone choose transparently, with meriting criteria, with a curriculum of curriculum, with a degree in a good staff member who has all this from the private sector? What are private sector employees? Children of a lower god? Is that how SYRIZA sees them? Of course, you are aware of your perceptions. We've learned them. I admit I can't tell you that. Personally, I think your statement on media control is the most creepy statement of a Western-state minister I have heard in my life.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u206	Umberto Echo, don't you read?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u207	In any other country in Europe, if the Minister said what you said and the way you said it, that you need to regulate the media, because they have been self-determination - he says - political and economic circles through them, and that arrangement will be made by the state, you said the code of conduct next day. The Code of Conduct is not regulated by the state. It's regulated by the U.S.S.S.A., by their own bodies, journalists. Yeah, it's called self-regulation. The Minister won't come - not Bernardakis, Georgiadis - and tell them what they'll say on the microphones. These are creepy, Mr. Bernardakis, these views. And it gives me great impression - to close - that the Prime Minister in two consecutive days heard two of his ministers make two statements. The first statement, yours, that you need to regulate in some way - it says - the media and his second statement, Mrs Sguridis, that you have made a lot of lies to be elected, like the previous ones. Mr. Tsipras between the two declarations of creepy considered the second and Mr. Sguridis asked for resignation, and he would obviously have to revolt if he had a trace of democracy in his conscience from your first, yours, and had asked for your resignation. You obviously have the same concepts of totalitarianism and of controlling freedom of speech. Your bill finally resurrects this: You separate people and you want to build your own party army. Well, we won't leave you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u208	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u209	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u210	Mr. Georgiadis, I oppose the latter. I do not think it is particularly strong. I want you to tell me this because I am interested in this. Do you have the data for 99% of the employees who have been rated "excellently" by the previous evaluations, do you have them from somewhere? I'd be interested in giving them to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u211	I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u212	Please, I'm waiting for them tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u213	Do you know the early turnout and productivity allowance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u214	Please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u215	Mr President, I would like to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u216	Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u217	Mr. Georgiadis, don't change the subject. You're pretty smart. Do not adopt the theory of flea. I am waiting tomorrow for the elements of the public rating you have, which substantiate that 100% or 99% of civil servants from the rating systems used were classified as 'excellent'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u218	I'll see you tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u219	The Parliamentary spokesman from the River Mr. Spyridon Dannelis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the Prime Minister welcomed the farmers, saying that he also comes from the movements. So he unwisely sent out - and not just to the farmers - the message that arbitraryness, lawlessness and force of violence can lead to those who exercise them even in the Prime Minister's chair. Talk and condone - and you do so - with the farmers of the blockades. When did you talk to others, with the representatives of the rural world, with those who innovate, who produce, export and create national wealth, and within the grim reality of the Greek crisis? However, the statement by the Governmental Representative immediately after the farmers' meeting in Maximos made it clear that the Government's ideas of insurance and taxation were not a product of serious planning. The government's improvements also do not create an integrated realistic framework. As for the announcement of measures to support agricultural production, they are only an inter-credited list of pathogens and titles for time-consuming loose ends that afflict the primary sector, but they simply confirm that for a year and a half, the instruments of the common agricultural policy have been delayed and used. They also confirm the complete inappropriateness of the Ministry of Rural Development, which has not yet decided who is the active farmer, the first. Potami, since its establishment, argues that the sustainability of the agricultural sector presupposes the operation of strong producer groups and producer organisations, strong collective schemes, a system of advice to farmers, which is necessary today, as much as never before on the Agriculture Ministry's agenda, to encourage young farmers who are open to knowledge and innovation. Otherwise, competitive agriculture cannot be set up. That was what the government had to start from the very beginning of the takeover of power. Of course, indifference on the agricultural issue comes from far away. All governments have, in any case, supported the convenient manipulation environment created by the crackdown on performance, ignoring the institutional tools offered by our accession to the European Union. If this was in the past unfair and ineffective, it is now criminal. Migration tends to become uncontrollable. In combination with the diversion of agricultural mobilization, it is an explosive mixture. It is ‘land fire maximized’. It's a nightmare set-up set-up. Of course, we must admit that the current government does not simply observe immigrants'swamped into the sun', like the previous one. But we are turning ourselves into an informal refugee and migrant concentration camp and reality is ruthless. To prevent it, we must all work together and act together quickly. Because it will obviously have no value if the country's political system is forced to agree on its ruins. As long as we still have time, then, we must realize that. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, the way you legislate keeps us constant surprises. We have been overwhelmed at times by numerous acts of legislative content, by bills that the title has nothing to do with content, bills without consultation, bills without a trace of cost, bills - barricades. Today we see something else: Provisions in the right direction, which you are passionately supporting in your explanatory statement, which, however, you are then undoing or making discounts on them, by establishing their application in some two years from today. You have explained, Minister, just now the reasons why you consider this to be the case. We believe that the major steps we must take to reform the public sector must be immediate, otherwise I do not know whether we will be able to implement these changes in the future, what will be brought about and what will be to the fore. I'm afraid you're canceling your intentions this way. How else can we explain your true correct findings? You say in the explanatory statement: "The structural features that compose the way in which our country's administrative system is organised, established and operated over time, are, in general, the hydrocephalosis of public services, functional introverticity, customer relations, corruption phenomena, and the partitioning of almost all choices of human resources". You are right, but you are deferring the solution. And you're postponing, because I'm afraid you want to preserve a party state that you're setting up. These provisions of the bill could lead to the rehabilitation of the public administration by the party patronage. You dare - don't blame yourself - and take a step further. Remove special secretaries. They add nothing to the respective positions of the Secretary-General, as indeed the administrative sectors offer nothing to the structure of the public administration. In relation to the second part of the draft legislation, which deals with the evaluation of civil servants, this is a very serious matter for the public administration, which all the previous governments have postponed to carry out, at least in a substantial way, supporting the continuation of immunity micro-groups. Of course, I fully agree that what has been attempted by the previous government does not provide price or substantial support for the necessity of evaluation. Because, as you have said, an evaluation with preconceived decisions on percentages, which should either give the excellent or the problematic employees, cannot be regarded as a credible assessment and is not a reform. That's true. All this leads to the term'reform' - and that is where the Greek governments have responsibilities not only, but also to the whole of the Greek political system, and neither of the respective oppositions are excluded, but of course our partners - in their valuation, and it is a term that we need as long ago as we need today. The essential, the real reforms that will lead us to European regularity. It is well known that the efficiency of an official is a function of three main factors: firstly, the functionality and rationality of the structure of the service in which the employee is serving. Secondly, integrated service planning and thirdly, proper management of human resources. Wrong people in the wrong position can't be efficient. There must be a clear institutionalisation of the position profiles. So many problems would be solved. However, none of these parameters is affected by this draft law. The restructuring of structures and final plans, as well as the strategic redesign of the ministries, should take precedence to put the right people in the right positions. Questions are also created by how the officials, who are assessed negatively, are being assessed under '40' on a repeated basis and after their training, because of course, lifelong learning should also follow civil servants. There is no provision for the consequences that this should have in terms of its subsequent course, of graduation, of the effects on their wage bills, or even of their overall course in the public administration, because this leads to mathematics by spreading - and we have seen it many times - in a downward equation of the quality of public administration. It shall not be understood to be an assessment without incentives and counter-incentives. And if there are positive arrangements in the first four chapters, you come with the fifth and last chapter entitled "Other Provisions" and shed the cardboard with milk. You have already withdrawn some clear articles - and you have done very well, Minister - but you have tabled new problematic ministerial amendments. We'll talk about them tomorrow. What is recommended by the invasive introduction of provisions to the main body of the bill, in fact at the last minute and at the end of the consultation? What is the clientele of most of them? You, Minister, and your Ministry, are due - and I think you are more aware of it than anyone - to give lessons to 'EU legislation', because if you do not, what other ministry will do it? Your work is primarily educational in the functioning of the government. It is high time that suffocating delusions and restless defects were also brought to an end, and that, of course, concerns the government, but it also concerns all of us. Left-wing policy does not mean attaching to stereotypes that have proved failed and create de facto inequality. Be careful, because you are fighting backs, trying to support an obsolete prisoner who has previously set extreme conservative political forces. You must not forget that the Greek state, which I fear is supported with passion, has indeed a multilevel class characteristics for both non-public and insiders. Inside the public there are low-paid non-preferential jobs with zero growth opportunities, of course, as well as jobs with prestige, potential for influence, potential for development and high wages, but which are given under customer criteria. Left policy means growth by changing the productive model, which mathematically leads to a progressive project of social mobility by helping serious public services, with a public sector that can ensure a friendly environment for healthy entrepreneurship. The draft law we would expect to be the catalyst for the "mother" of all reforms, which are undoubtedly the reform of public administration. Unfortunately, he doesn't make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr. Dannelly. Mr Konstantinos Kontogeorgios from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is a general observation - I think - that the area of public administration must not be a field of conflict, but a field of compositions and a field of consensus, if we really want a flexible state, a state in the service of citizens, a state - model of compliance with the Constitution and the laws of the State itself. And, of course, the basic prerequisite for all of this, Mr Minister, and I shall confine myself to the draft legislation under discussion, is that it should have a core chapter, the first and most important chapter, that is to say, that is to say, the pluralism, the totality of laws and provisions. In itself, the functioning of all these procedures is a problem for the functioning of the administration and the service of the citizen. In other words, in two words, there is a need for a clear codification of the legislative framework within which public administration operates. And this, unfortunately, once again we do not see it in this piece of legislation, which - and I will agree with the previous speaker - should be the mother of reforms in public administration. Minister, I would like to believe that in fact the attempt you are making with these incomplete legislation that you are bringing is well-advanced and well-founded. Indeed, I would like to believe that you have clear ears to hear the points made by ordinary Members in this Chamber and that can be improvements to your incomplete legislation. Minister, you will allow me, however, to say that as far as the first axis is concerned - and I will confine myself to this because the distinguished colleagues who have analysed in detail the views on all the issues dealt with in this draft law - the National Register of Officials of Public Administration, I have the impression that the provisions of the draft law and, in particular, those relating to those concerning those who may be candidates in the National Staff Register have a racism against self-government. It's a heavy expression I'm using, but that's the reality. And I say this because of my previous capacity, as for ten years I served the Greek state and my country as prefect. Mayors, regional executives, who, in my opinion, have the greatest democratic legitimacy than anyone else in this Chamber, as they are elected at more than 50% rates, officials who have acquired from their multi-faceted work and from their presence in the state's regional administration and with their huge experience in the entire range of state's responsibilities, should not be excluded from the National Register of Officials of Public Administration. If you are indeed listening to the remarks made by the ordinary Members, if you really have a well-meaning attitude to all that you are referring to and in the draft law's report, you must rethink this issue and announce from tonight that you are accepting this deficiency and that you will immediately restore this injustice to self-government. And it's not just that it's omission of the draft law, as far as the National Register is concerned. You underestimate self-government as a whole, at the time when you are the direct Head of Government in the entire administration of the state, which is yours. And don't tell me that mayors with two terms of terms or prefectures with two terms of terms or districts with two terms of reference have no possibility of responding to a final position of the public, and while you yourself come to say that scientific associates of the independent authorities are able to take a high post in public administration, in addition to what many colleagues have pointed out. This blatant injustice, please, Minister, see her again. I take the view that the experience gained by the officials of government should be exploited for public administration and, of course, in relation to our two main remarks: First and foremost - I repeat this once again - is the codification of the state's institutional framework of operation. The great weakness of the administration, the greatest weakness in the functioning of our state is the pluralism, the pandering of the provisions, the willing interpretation of the laws, the same services in different areas to apply the laws differently. At some point, we must admit that, and if it is true that you are making an effort, soon after that, we have to follow a draft new draft law, which finally enacts the rules of operation of the State at all levels, at all levels, with an accurate description of the positions, with an objective assessment, on the basis of objective criteria at every location, but also the use and introduction of new technologies and the interconnection of the various sectors of public administration, so that every citizen can have the same treatment at every end of our country. I say that, Minister, and from personal experience. In the past, we have faced problems which have not made any of us proud. In order to abolish customer relations, the personal contact of each employee should be objectiveised, with criteria applicable to all citizens. Of course, partyisation is another very important element. Here you will tell me how it is possible to blame the previous governments for customer relations in public and - you will allow me to say this - the whole or the majority of civil servants belong to your party. I could never explain that. It is a question that concerns me for years and will continue to worry about me. In any case, what matters - I want to believe that the effort you are making is honest - our observation that I have made and, as an amendment to the draft law personally, Minister, in terms of self-government and its members, you will have to restore it very quickly, because, indeed, you will convince us that the effort you are making and is not racist is honest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Mr. Konstantinos Kontogeorgios. SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Socrates Famelos, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in January 2015, but also in September 2015, the citizens gave a clear command, to move quickly on to our country the very big changes we need so that Greece will be dismantled from corruption, inconvenience, poverty, recession, but also at the same time to be dismantled from inactivity, partisanism, inconvenience. There are many cases and phenomena, the features of interactive and delaying public life, production, economy and society in recent years. Others are large and well-known, other small, some obvious, some data. But it was also the micro-compromise that evolved from the tops of bi-communism to the parties, on the basis of which, at times, ladies and gentlemen, it was also your self-government that the whole world, the whole society, should be dependent on small or large obligations. It was one thing, however, that the subordination of the state, the use of the state for the party. Above all the party. That was the characteristic of the state we knew so far. What does that mean? Let's take a few final examples. Greek Sugar Industry, the essence of Greece, the primary connection to the secondary sector, added value, dynamic product, dynamic cultivation to both farmers and industrial workers and trade. Did the administrations appointed by the New Democracy and the PASOK break 50 million, doing what? By making exclusive contracts with two companies that were inconsistent with their obligations vis-à-vis the Sugar Industry and the administrations, the ones that protected the public interest, what did they do every year? They extended the credit facility, i.e. the possibility of buying free for free - while they did not pay you - and gave them more product. Every year more uncovered checks. This is sound, fair management and defence of the public interest in New Democracy and PASOK, of course. The second example: CEDEFOP. We got the chicken giving birth to the golden eggs. Give me money, give me contracts without control. But what money? Money that was given to advertising companies and media shops, i.e. companies that bought wholesale propaganda, to say so, to make you the profile, to appoint your own children journalists, to make the profile of your own political leaders or leaders, whether they are in administration or self-government. So, we have the marmita, the state, and we feed our own children for our own political interest. Was that just the characteristics of the party's dependence? Unfortunately, no. We have come to expose the country abroad. A foreign state agent came in and formally asked our ambassadors and consuls to give us CDs with data and the Director of the Prime Minister of Greece would ask for no information to be received, which for the Director of your former Chief, Mr Samaras, you have not answered the House yet. Can the Director of the Office of the Prime Minister of a country refuse to receive information on tax evasion, which, now that they have come to the country, prove that his adviser is being charged with tax evasion? He's the one you wanted ten of these, Mr. Papastaurou. We already learn from publicity that he has deposited money from hidden accounts or unregulated resources, which have fed the Greek public administration. We're wondering: Won't you get a seat for this? That means the state's dependence on the party. Not to say about the others, which have twenty-five years of non-compliance with the Constitution, the triangle of sin, publishers who have taken personal loans to buy their own publishing houses and publishing houses, and the criminal persecution that you covered with the bankers, who you once again appointed to banks, whose ownership you did not own, but the game you did. That was the situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u225	You do the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u226	So this is the triangle of sin, that is, the political administration, the banks and a financial cord, which was not productive for the country. That is why we need to clearly formulate another model of administration, production, and also policy, which at least has a clear ethics, that is to say, pure hands! It has all been accepted by the rapporteurs of the other parties that there was a suffocating presence of political leadership in public administration. I mean, he was dominating the partition inside the State. Anxiety was evident, even in the Security Body, dear colleague. You've lived it, you've implemented it, you've continued to do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u227	You repeat the worst.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u228	There was centralism, bureaucracy, lack of expertise and, indeed, a very easy subjection to the troika when it came to saying "you will not be hiring, you will not get new executives, you will not know from modern management systems or modern knowledge". You have accepted it very easily. Now it's changing. Now they're being recruited, even in auditing mechanisms. Now they are recruited in Greece, after at least five to six years. At the same time, however, we had party trade union leaders, loss of the institutional memory of public structures, no relevance and no codification of legislation and client relations, even to the last employee, because it had to be subjected to the system of the party trade unionist, the local MP, the party ruler or the mayor or the prefect. That's the system you built. Of course, this is a culture far away from what Europe is. The private economy is currently lacking on the public administration's agenda. You never had her. You only wanted your people to take care of any authority and I'll prove it to you later. Of course, all this was because the state shouldn't have been smart, honest and fast. Everyone else had to wait in line, but with a very clear class distinction. Those who had the passage didn't get in line. They went behind the window behind the guise. Whether it was a small customer relationship - take the bunker from the front, go to the mayor - whether it was a big customer relationship, that is to say "buy me the newspaper with citizens' money and give me 50 million euros to buy it". That was the game that took place at all levels. You wanted a state like that. So today we are talking about a legal institutional environment, which changes the functioning of the public administration with regard to the executives who serve it, their executives and their assessment, the register and the rating and the evolution of the heads. But what is the historical environment of this law? What's the past? What happened a while ago? What have we received? What are we changing? It didn't sound. We want to draw conclusions from what we receive, to change it and do something better in the country. So, to date, what were the latest crisis of heads and what did they teach us? What was the political leader of these arrangements, but also of the last redundancies? I say this because all this has been done together. Why have you hidden it? One name was dominated by the public administration's political agenda in this area: Mitsotakis. What, then, did the politician in charge of the public administration of redundancies and the change of all heads overnight, why didn't you like them? In practice, Kyriakos Mitsotakis also chose a model that did not save money for the public, but removed functions from the State to settle in the case of the PSAs the private IEKs of your friends. That's the game. I mean, in the case of cleaners, the cleaning contractors would be settled. Under no circumstances did it lead to innovation, because it did not allow executives to be recruited and used the most anachronistic evaluation system currently in existence in the global economic community. I'll tell you how it turns out. That was modernisation, however. What, then, was the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee - which you all love, after all - on the evaluation that you had carried out with the previous law? It says very simply that this method has been internationally criticised, that is to say, the method by which we make 15% on the scale of useless in Procrosti's bed and 20% excellent compulsory, because that is how they were born and never changed, because they were years old, inefficient and outdated and already 95% of private sector enterprises are not using it. For example, I don't know where Mr. Georgiadis heard about Harvard. It's funny. MICROSOFT has stopped it for twenty-five years. It is registered by the College of Graduates of the School of Public Administration and I will present it in the Minutes, because you have nothing to testify in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u229	It's true, Mr. Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u230	So the system used so far by the 'expert' of the liberal economy, Mr Mitsotakis, does not use any measurable criterion. It's totally subjective. This is the opinion of the Committee, which was tabled at the time. Of course, it can very easily, because it does not have objective criteria for the officials they assess, to cook the result. There is no quantifiable targeting. It was asked before by the New Democracy colleagues. But they did something I told them there was no. And it's just a well-established graduation tool, because the setting is rough. So what did the National School of Public Administration Alumni say? He said it is a faithful copy of a failed system that was withdrawn in the 1990s, this 15% useless precursor bed, because it is empirical, no statistics, the evaluators do not have merital procedures and there is total lack of targeting. It also refers to ‘MICROSOFT’. Please, I'm tabling this in the Minutes. Because there's evidence here. Everything else is to be loved! [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But why did Mr. Mitsotakis proceed to this system? Apparently so he can keep his hands fired. That's all he was interested in. Let no intake in the public sector, be salted by the young people in the private sector - but friends, not all - of course, abolish the first generation of heads who, even with Mr Ragosi's system, had been judged. But who were they? For example, at the Ministry of Health, he says, Mr. Petros Giannoulatos was stopped, who had raised the highest score. In his Ministry of Administrative Reform, Mr. Papadimitropoulos was ceased, who had gathered the highest score and been demolished to a mere employee. And in three general addresses are: a gentleman, who was last in the 2010 competition, a gentleman who did not participate in the competition and a lady who had disciplinary action. I do not mention the names, because it is not a matter of stigmatisation, but I mention those who have ceased, because something has been done while they were judged. At the same time, apart from the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Culture, the Director-General has also ceased without criteria. That's what happened then. I must therefore present to you Mr Mitsotakis' evaluation course as "how do you cease heads" with Mr.4275/15.7.2014, Article 5, Transitional provisions: "Let me go on exercising commanders' duties..." [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This is the objective assessment you have used! But, of course, in our own children, we have fifty a post-call associate. That was in Mr. Mitsotakis' office. We haven't heard an answer. However, I will testify to the end of the twenty-seventh service, where we have found ourselves by reading - because we wanted to find out whether or not he has a fifty-one poster - that the third special adviser is Mr Mylonis George, who is also serving in the Competition Committee as President's Director. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We ask: Is it possible - why has the Committee on Competition recently come up with a debate on this - that there should be parallel duties in the Administrative Reform to the Competition Authority and that it has now been transferred to another political position? We also want a response from the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, because he knows the competition authority very well. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Of course, not to mention the nieces of Mr Mitsotakis, who were also engaged in a poster post at the same time as legal duties and at the same time as participation in a legal company and a commercial company. We understand that New Democracy has a very great political weakness today to defend the past of its leader. Only thirteen Members of the New Democracy have spoken today. I think it's 17% of your MPs. We understand it's difficult. Only Mr. Georgiadis and Mr. Vorides, the most conservative and horrific pieces of the New Democracy, came to defend Mr. Mitsotakis. At the same time, however, they failed to express a different view of national policy than Mr Mitsotakis had in Brussels last week. A policy similar to that of the Austrian Foreign Minister, with those countries, which think they should close the borders in Europe, the Visegrad countries, but completely contrary to the European People's Party, with Mrs Merkel, which shows that you ultimately have a serious issue of identity and knowledge and of opinion. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would ask you, Mr President, to give me two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u231	You've got two more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u232	We know that from xenophobic extreme to extreme liberalism, you have too many components. But you have an interest in keeping the interests of SIEMENS, the Borgians list, on the Lagard list. That's what unites you, the great interests that keep the country back. But we are obliged to this great democratic section, which is a part of the parallel programme, to move it to public administration as well in a major reform that is colonising. Mrs. Kerame, it doesn't dismantle. That's what scares you. The colonization would make it blurred, it would make the government administration uncolored. At the same time, it gives the opportunity to assess, score, register with a democratic participatory environment, with equal opportunities and transparency. Who has to be afraid of this environment? Because such a state can support productive reconstruction. A state that has the element of freedom and democracy within its DNA rather than the party's service and the potential donor of the party. Such a state we want, which has real democracy and evaluation at all levels, in self-government, regional and primary, in public administration and in administrative structures. We will perhaps also discuss more tomorrow, because there are issues that we want to mention both institutional memory and implementation time for the non-public sector, but also for evaluation. But what matters, ladies and gentlemen, is that we know that these changes, the great and shocking, which are taking place in the country, are afflicting the old power system. We're listening to the sound. We see the spear of the system and we hear it too. But we have a mandate, that our country must be at the heart of the euro area, it must be honest, progressive, be pioneering, keep its children and honor its name. This country, we will serve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u233	Thank you to SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative Mr Socrates Famelos. The floor is now for seven minutes, SYRIZA MP Panagiota Kozobol - Amanatidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the reactions of those who are affected and those who do not understand, this government, in the context of incredible budgetary closeness, has repeatedly adopted measures which relieve thousands of our fellow citizens. It is clear now that this government is doing so, because neither the humanitarian crisis bill nor its prolongation to humanisation of prisons nor the medical coverage of hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens who were uninsured, nor many other measures that were enacted with the abolition of injustices, are a Memorandumary cheque. In this spirit, it is also the draft law that is being passed, but with a fundamental difference. While the legislative initiatives mentioned above lift injustices and make repairs and patches on a broken social fabric, the draft is changing the chaotic, dashing and inefficient structures of public administration. It changes its philosophy and way of working and builds new tracks, on which a new management system will be launched, such a system that will be able to perform its role for many years. It's a bill of breath. This is the difference. The need to reform public administration, including local government, is not a discovery in recent years. It concerns our country's political and social forces and the scientific community from the beginning of the post-war period. They have also been mentioned by previous colleagues, twelve - if I remember correctly the number - reports from time to time by mentioning pathogens and proposing solutions to the problem of public administration. Many studies, but few projects. Why? Because the joint conclusion of all these reports is that the Greek administrative system is weak because of its relationship with the political establishment, that it is a peculiar, complex, dysfunctional system that maintains itself, moves occasionally, inactively and reacts when it affects its neural points that affect its own acquired assets. It is a mechanism that can hardly be edited and implemented by public policies. It's a system that's accustomed to party hugging. So we are starting with an unsolved admission, that it is imperative, given the economic crisis, to establish a plan for the reorganisation and reconstruction of the administrative system, in order to transform it into an organisational and function as a lever for our country's development and progress. This role is coming to carry out this bill. First of all, it seeks to stop the suffocating party hug and reorganize the whole system. This is largely achieved by two areas of legislation. The first is the National Executive Register and the second is the evaluation system. With the National Register of Officials set up mainly by the bodies of civil servants, officials, officials, officials and other servants concerned with private law of indefinite duration, officials of the decentralised administrations, OTAs, independent authorities, teachers and lecturers of universities and TEIs, researchers, i.e., essentially this register, can participate in the best of our country, which is ready to work at the highest level for the general good. From this register, this tank shall be selected by means of a moleculation which is previously defined and made public, the most suitable for the specific position of the administration to be deployed. The selection shall be made by a nine-member Council, the composition of which shall guarantee dignity and transparency. More importantly, all administrations, starting from the pyramid, are chosen in this way by the Secretary-General of the Ministries. The new Secretary-General that will be selected in this way will no longer be the hybrid of a political, administrative institution. They will be the top of the administration, ensure and express the continuity and institutional memory of the public administration, undertake the administrative implementation of the policy, as determined by the citizens' elected government and its institutions. The evaluation system has always been a thorn for public administration. It never worked with targets and performance measurements. The measurable criteria prevent customer relationship and complexity, which is why and when they have been introduced in elementary terms, they have not been implemented. Many examples have been mentioned by the previous speaker. With this in mind the proposed provisions, the evaluation system for civil servants and the public administration is based in a sound and reliable way on the evaluation system. The evaluation and participation of civil servants in the process of setting targets, as well as in the functioning of the administration, improve the performance of each official and overall the performance of the public service. The new evaluation system is not punishable and is not a pretext for public redundancies. It has a real, substantial scope, on the basis of criteria commonly accepted, measurable and objectively controlled for its implementation, solely on the basis of the qualitative upgrading of public services. Staff evaluation reports shall be drawn up by anticipated assessors. As far as possible, the objectivity, the administrative personal image of the staff member and his abilities shall be determined in relation to the nature of his duties. However, the staff member's abilities if they are not combined with efficiency are a letter blank. Efficacy is judged by the objectives set in this service. For this reason, the evaluation shall be carried out in connection with the fulfilment of the service mission and the fulfilment of the service to the needs of society. Finally, under Article 24,'reporting and social audit', social control of public administration is carried out, with the aim of improving its functioning by establishing the process of listening to social and political actors. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The establishment of the National Executive Register and the establishment of a new substantial evaluation system is, in fact, a radical, structural change, which overall transforms the way the administrative and state mechanisms operate, since the public administration in fact breaks down its connective web with the umbilical cord with the political leadership concerned and is transformed into an independent body capable of fulfilling its mandate by the Constitution, namely the implementation of legislative policy and the implementation of public policies with its active participation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u235	Thank you Mrs Panagiota Kozobol - Amanatidis, Parliament of SYRIZA. The floor is for seven minutes, for Mrs. Georgia Genias, also SYRIZA Parliamentary.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u236	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in a few days' time after the vote on the parallel programme, SYRIZA brings the Greek Parliament a further commitment, a substantial reform of public administration. For the first time, the assessment of structures and persons is regulated in a uniform, systematic and comprehensive way, a Register of Public Administration Officers is established, which will serve as a pool for selection of senior executives to cover administrative positions of increased responsibility. The public is reorganized with the existing officials. The bill brings a new system of evaluation of public administration staff and structures to improve the efficiency and productivity of public services. There is also provision for a new system of selection of heads on the basis of objective qualifications alone. At the same time, a position of institutional secretary-general is being created, which will come from the National Executives’ Registry and will have a term of office. A sound assessment system is being established both for existing and for the heads of the existing ones, a valuable graduation structure and an objective promotional system. This reform is aimed primarily and above all at a reservingly organised and appropriately competent and competent officials, who will be able to fulfil the institutional role of the Constitution, i.e. satisfying the public interest by implementing and implementing the general will, as reflected and outlined through the legislation adopted by the democratically elected representatives of the people. It aims at an administration with a upgraded role, a socially responsible, ethically strong, with upgraded responsibilities, both in the design and implementation and evaluation of state, administrative policies. It should be stressed that today's government for the public sector, which is introduced by this reform, and which promotes democracy and totalitarianism, is different from the policies of the former governments of the New Democracy - PASOK. The previous governments have created and maintained customer relations, corruption phenomena and partyisation at every opportunity. They promoted a punishing system of assessment, designed for mass redundancies and public extortion. They divided the high-level administrative positions with proportional percentages among the parties, without even hiding it. It was the famous '4-2-1'. Executive positions were chosen with strong party criteria. The Minister concerned acted as the owner of the Ministry, which considered a feud. Only weeks before the January 2015 elections tried to make the governors effectively unmoved, who on purely party criteria had been appointed to public bodies. The Governments of New Democracy - PASOK, blocks of the toughest and anti-social monumental target, planned to operate public administration with the least financial means from any other civilised country, up to 9% of GDP with Law 4046/2012. Following the resolution of Law 4109/2013, which abolished eight bodies and merged ninety-seven legal persons, they went to the next phase of a drastic reduction in public and civil servants with redundancies. Despite the evidence presented since then by SYRIZA and social institutions that the problem of Greek public administration is not arithmetic, they tightened disciplinary law, blocking the legal system, established permanent mechanisms for the exchange of officials to be fired and ultimately adopted openly and dismissal. They dealt with officials as enemies and quasi-criminals, who in the first complaint were under removal. Thus, every channel of popular participation and social control was cut out. Most importantly, however, this process discouraged young talented scientists from serving the public sector. So SYRIZA's aim is to rationalise and improve the public's functioning. Instead of breaking up, we suggest redesign. Instead of the degradation of its social substance, we extend and deepen its social mission. Instead of the dominance of the political subsystem, we are creating a modern integrated system of procedures and how to choose and develop the executive capacity of the public administration. Instead of anxiocracy and russetology, we propose the principle of transparency, equality and dignity. Instead of deregulation, we promote the principle of the proper functioning of the administration and the principle of effectiveness. Our desire and aim is a state organised with best methods and staffed with the excellent young and experienced officials, to help produce quality goods and services accessible to all citizens. We believe and strive to consolidate the credibility and social contribution of the public administration to the citizens. In this draft law, therefore, we are taking a decisive step in this direction. For all these reasons, I am voting in favour both of the principle and of the articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, Mrs Georgia, SYRIZA MP. Mr. Ioannis Giolas has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u238	How many more speakers are there?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u239	Let me tell you a little bit about your show. After Mr Giola the floor will be given by Mr Theocharopoulos, Parliamentary spokesman from the Democratic Alliance, then Mrs Inglezi and we will close with Mr Skouriakos. Finally, we shall vote in principle.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u240	No, Mr President, put on more speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u241	No, no, because that's how we're gonna get past 12:00. You have the floor, Mr Giola for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u242	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law aims to contribute to transparency, integrity and efficiency of public administration, as it is signed. However, this is a bill which, despite its innovative, reasonable and fair positions, received negative comments and criticism from a large portion of the Opposition and mainly the Officer. Looking for the cause of the reluctance, remorse - I repeat, prudence - and the negligence they have shown on the principle and the articles of the bill, I could give it an eloquent attitude that arises from the nature of the New Democracy's party, not to accept such easy changes and innovations, or even that it obsessively and ideologically insists on the articles adopted by it as irreplaceable, irreplaceable and detaining them. However, the one who accepts this justification for the New Democracy's position - in my opinion - fails to detect the real cause. "It is the preservation of the party state, idiot" I would respond to every goodwill, which would not be enough to justify such a superficial justification. It is the preservation of the acquired and the safeguarding of its supportive structure for forty years of power over time of governmental overseers. In order not to be regarded as being equitable and unfair, we should make a special reference to a serious exception to Law 2190/94, which deserves the title 'Peponie Law', since it introduced as the principle the establishment of fair social criteria for recruitment in the public sector. Today, more than ever necessary than ever to resolve the major diseases of the public administration system, I mean the partisanisation and the establishment of customer relations, which are expressed through the strong and suffocating presence of the political leadership in question, comes the SYRIZA - ANEL Government to recommend an objective and fair legislation. It goes on to reverse a centralized, anxiocratic and opaque regime that yesterday's own rulers established in the State. An area which they themselves, because of ideology and bad practices, tried to manipulate, extract and eventually deceive and eventually make it a dysfunctional, bureaucratic and ineffective mechanism - a defamation. These pathogens are determined to revise by introducing a transparent, objective, practicable and reliable problem of administrative reorganisation. And here are the individual interventions and corresponding targets. The Register of Public Administration Staff shall be open and accessible to any senior management, who have the necessary objective, scientific and evaluation elements, to form part of a whole, of which only the excellent and experienced staff will be chosen to take over the administrations of all legal persons and high-responsibility posts, such as Secretary-General, Deputy and Special Secretaries of the Ministries. We have therefore not followed the practice followed by the governments of the past, to select each Minister's seat and position. In this way we allow all worthwhile executives to labor, to become even on the basis of their rating skills to be chosen for the administration of executive areas and positions of responsibility. This process requires our authorities, our ideology and our practice, which will yield fruit and be evaluated accordingly by the Greek people, but also by the vast majority of the worthy and capable civil servants, who will serve with confidence. The scope for evaluation of staff shall be established by two assessors, which shall ensure maximum objectivity, after an absolute and arbitrary crisis phenomena which are eliminated by the rating of a qualified evaluation committee, where there is a deviation in the rating between the two ratings that exceeds twenty-four points. And if the newly-built institutions of the chambers, the social hearing of bodies and citizens - for which we have not heard - have not listened - to the self-assessment and evaluation of the heads of all their existing departments, are for their fellow Members some new, bold and advanced plans for the reform of the public administration, because so far you have not taken care to establish fair and objective criteria for the evaluation of civil servants and for the selection of officials, not arbitrarily, to an absolute choice of the competent ministers, as you have so far been accustomed to and did, but in compliance with rules of good administration, transparency, equivalence and objectivity? I shall, however, continue, ladies and gentlemen, to quote some of the basic rules of the bill, which serve the principles set out above. The evaluation of staff shall be based on categories and individual specific criteria, which are detailed and descriptive, easily quantifiable, with a wide range of zero to per cent and with quality figures for the performance of the qualification, such as ‘good’, ‘very sufficient’, ‘sufficient’. The establishment of full-time address and divisions, a institution relied upon by faith in democratic dialogue and active participation, makes all employees and social partners in their areas of responsibility, evaluators of the objectives, collective and individualized, and contribute to self-assessment before the team, while at the same time restoring the necessary cooperation between them. Finally, another newly established institution is the establishment of the hearing of social actors and citizens. This institution introduces and seeks multiple targets. Initially, it makes management bodies responsible for contacting the citizen more responsible. There are distortions, phenomena of maladministration and other malfunctioning administrative measures, establishing a uniform and fair system for regulating similar issues, resolving in accordance with the rules of proportionality, equality and impartiality issues of concern to the administrations. Finally, public administration is obliged to respond directly to chronic problems affecting citizens. In conclusion, under this draft law, a deep restructuring is underway in the functioning of the public administration, with necessary changes that will restore the relationship of trust with the citizens. The establishment of the register of executive positions, the objective criteria that constitute a filter for entry into it, as well as the framework for the evaluations of officials and the crises of heads of staff, lay strong foundations for the restoration of a credible and efficient public sector, next to the citizen, by providing guarantees for his coercion from yesterday's contagion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, Mr. Giola. Mr Athanasios Theocharopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the Democratic Partnership, has the floor for twelve minutes. If possible and less, because we're a little pressed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u244	Ladies and gentlemen, I would first like you to allow me to refer to the huge issue of the refugee question, because we are living historical times both for the European Union and for our country. It has taken a huge proportion of this issue. I could say that the foundations of the European construction are shaking. Extending nationalist and racist phenomena is a result of the lack of a common European policy. The countries of the European Union have made specific commitments, such as the relocation of a hundred and sixty thousand people, and no four hundred people have been relocated. We have made it clear that more Schengen is needed and not less Schengen in this process and that no country can close the borders. It is the issue that requires European solidarity. Greece cannot become a'soul warehouse' and must be clear. For us, the Greek Government has been facing this for a long time and there have been illusory and sloppy dealings with the issue. Now, by 6 March a national plan must be tabled by the government. This national plan has still not been seen. The Prime Minister informed the Plenary for more than twenty minutes about the refugee but did not mention what he had planned, in relation to this national plan which should be presented by 6 March. We consider it to be a matter on which national understanding is required. That is why we have taken concrete initiatives. Today Mrs. Gennimata visited the President of the Republic. He asked for a national consultation. We have asked for a Council of Political Heads. We expect all the leaders of all the parties to respond, immediately to the nomination of a council of political leaders, so that we can see a common national line, and I hope that the New Democracy will not do as in the previous council of political leaders where it was the only party that did not agree to the joint communiqué on refugee. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the draft bill, according to the explanatory statement, it is intended to establish a modern integrated system of procedures and how to select and develop the staff capacity of the public administration. This system is also set up in full sequence and interdependence of evaluation procedures for existing public sector structures and evaluation of the whole human resource pyramid. The fact that public administration is the "big patient" has been said by many and is well known to everyone. At least on this issue there was an agreement. This situation leads to the deterioration of the administration's relations with the citizens, who have exercised and exercised - not unfairly - severe criticism of the services provided and of the general functioning of the public administration. In addition, the existing pathogens also lead to the automation of the conscious and consistent official, who observes that his personal development little, if not at all, depends on his performance, which is often ignored or operated just vice versa and at the expense of him. Have there been reforms in public administration? There have been reforms - and they have been analysed by Members of all the groups and by the rapporteur for the Democratic Integration - such as the ASP and many other issues. Should we strengthen this function? We need to strengthen it. Do we need to make new reforms in public administration? We need to make new reforms in public administration. Is this bill a reform? It's not, and we need to see what it is. First of all, reform is to change a system by structural means. It is not a simple regulation, and we need to clarify the concepts, because, on the one hand, we had the deregulations, as the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis mean, and, for example, I am referring to the redundancies of civil servants, and on the other, we have simple arrangements which often serve a number of customer relations, and we also define them as reforms. It could therefore only be said that there is a need for a section in the functioning of the public administration. We will say that there are also positive elements in this draft law, such as the National Register of Civil Service Executives, which is, moreover, a European best practice. Our objections, however, are the prerequisites for a substantial reform, such as, for example, the implementation of the principles of transparency, democracy and efficiency, the revision of the relationship between a party and a state-to-party, the incomplete resources and the failure to rationalise them. In the proposed draft, despite some positive provisions, there seems to be little to ensure that the functioning of the public administration is effectively and effectively reformed. We heard about the evaluation and I heard a dialogue that really impressed me. The 60%, 30%, 10%, predetermined figures attempted to pass through Mr Mitsotakis are something which does not lead to an assessment, because this problem continues to exist. We cannot necessarily set a percentage of 30% and 10% bad, moderate and good. Maybe a service has 100%, 50%, 30%. But we have also heard you, Minister, on the other hand, doing that you do not know what is happening in the public sector today, or what was happening in relation to the evaluation, and specifically asking for details that most of the evaluations so far, as they were, have resulted in the large percentage simply getting the best score. So here, on the one hand, we have ideological obsessions of the New Democracy and on the other hand delusional SYRIZA. That is what we saw in the debate a moment ago in relation to the evaluation. Is evaluation necessary? Yeah. Let's see the right way to carry out the evaluation. Ladies and gentlemen, the reality is that this bill is not only a reform but also a guarantee of the principles it invokes. More specifically, as far as the National Register of Public Administrations is concerned, with the establishment of which we agree, it places private sector officials in reserve, their experience, their culture. Several speakers have told you. If the Minister considers that the public sector's potential should first be recorded, but this should not prevent the private sector from participating, even if it is intended to operate on private economic criteria in terms of efficiency. I have heard you, Minister, say in the public interest. We all agree that our aim is the public interest in this process. You say about the Executive Register and the public's relationship with the private sector: is it possible for one body to look for the executives of another organisation? But is that what this is about? Is a public body and another private sector? The public interest is aimed at the public sector, and this also concerns the private sector. This is not a controversy here. This is an overall operation, how we should see public and private sectors. We see the question of the consultative interview, which involves many elements of subjectivity, and which, of course, does not have, but its contribution to the end result should not be binding. We see as innovation the evaluation of heads of government by their subordinates with anonymous questionnaires. At first reading it could be positive. But there are several issues. In other words, we cannot ask ourselves what happens if there are heads of state or, if there are one or two of them, where the anonymity of the questionnaires does not guarantee anyone. But even when there are more existing ones, how will mutual support be avoided, which is of course a long way from merit? How, then, will mutual support be avoided in this case? Let me remind you of what he says about the interview brought by the Report of the Scientific Service of the Parliament: "The oral interview must be conducted in conditions of transparency and the possibility of judicial review of the management's crisis must be ensured. There must also be a practical interview." The question is whether they are guaranteed in this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u245	They define these.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u246	For targeting. Yes, it sounds nice and yes it is necessary, but the way it is defined and shaped by the bill is extremely unlikely to work. And it's not a question of teams and teams, it's a matter of skilled executives. We are still seeing a number of provisions on ratings, branches, which are abstracting earlier laws and which do not constitute major management tools in any advanced administrative system in the 21st century. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are talking about the upgrading of the public administration, about assessments, targets, about an Observatory at the School of Public Administration, and there is no mention of the way and infrastructure needed to operate the good intentions. It is worth wondering how there is no mention of the need for measurement indicators of results, evaluation systems, correction and redesign. And because some will hurry to say that they do not exist in the services sector and that it is very difficult to measure, we can also refer to the specific tools applied by European public administrations such as, for example, the one designed by the European Institute of Public Administration in Maastricht, the Common Assessment Framework, which is a tool of the management of total quality. We wonder whether those who drafted this draft law, which refers to the need to improve public administration, which seeks transparency and democracy, have turned to such tools. Apparently not. Because if they had done so, we would have another bill here, without gaps, without outdated tools, which would ensure transparency and integrity, which would provide measurable results through the planning of objectives, strategies and regular implementation and control. Instead, once again, we have a rough bill that makes a weak attempt to go through as innovative as it is trying to avoid harming the acquired people who think that every ministry is their property. It affects the newly placed executives - and I shall refer to them - and avoids or transfers responsibilities in the future. And all this with a pretext of transparency and dignity. Probably, at some point in time, in some other bills or in some acts of legislation, as we have unfortunately seen very strongly this year, to fill some fragmentary gaps, but this is not a way of making good legislation. So we don't have to find out about America. Tools exist and apply. This is where we wonder why they are not being exploited. Finally, before I finish, I want to tell you the following. Article 32, Minister, has called for a withdrawal because it gives arbitrary superpowers to move, secondment and place the ministers on the mobility of their officials, without the opinion of the services councils, by way of derogation from existing provisions. That's why we asked to retire. He was withdrawn and we said 'we expect to see it'. And we did see it. And you told us a moment ago that he will come back to the next bill you will bring - if I'm not mistaken - about mobility. We did not ask for it to be withdrawn to come back to the next bill. We have asked that it be withdrawn because we consider, on the basis of this argument, that it should be withdrawn and that it should not be reintroduced. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In the legislative improvements that you have brought to the draft law, in particular, in Legislative Improvement 6, you say: ‘at the end of paragraph 3 of Article 13, the said positions shall be established in any way prior to the entry into force of the register, they shall be fulfilled in accordance with existing provisions, as they apply until the publication of this Law, and those placed therein shall carry out their duties normally until the end of their term of office and in any case not beyond 30 June 2018’. Did you bring this to you, no one could get away from you? Because that's what we understand. Don't make any mistakes and enter any of them worthwhilely? Is that the target? Are you referring this back to the future? Don't even get away from us, did you get any legislative improvements? Not only is this not a way of legislating properly and with such legislative improvements, which are at least suspicious of their objectives, but they also need answers here. Finally, because one of the objectives you have set was to address the problem of previous legislative initiatives that have been rough, as you said, by this bill you are not doing it. This bill is sloppy and is not characterised by a reformist breath. It's not characterized by its title. It cannot bring - and it will not bring, here we will be and see it in the next few years - the transparency, merit and efficiency of public administration. It needs a deep incision to public administration, a real reform, which will be comprehensive and certainly this bill does not have these conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u247	Thank you, Mr. Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u248	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u249	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u250	I want to make a statement. As some of the amendments will be accepted, the title of the bill will be added to the words 'and other provisions'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u251	Very good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u252	Mr President, can I have the floor? I'll be very brief. Because the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman Mr Famelos mentioned to me, if I may, I would like the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u253	Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u254	I just wanted to say, because Mr Famellos himself mentioned both to me and to the President of the New Democracy, that I will give him specific information tomorrow, which will prove the inaccurateness of his claims and the evidence he has provided. I would also like to ask the Minister when he will take a position on the amendments if he has a specific programming to report to us, so that we know what he is accepting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u255	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u256	Because now I see one - one - and I want to do a co-operation, I think that tomorrow, at the beginning of the sitting, we will be able to make this statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u257	Very good. Mrs Catherine Iglezi has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as mentioned in the explanatory statement, the philosophy of this draft law is to be found in the proposal 'None now arbitrary and undivided procedure for selecting executives'. It is, in fact, worthy and regrettable, ladies and gentlemen, to call on us to vote in 2016 on a bill that institutionalises self-evident, independent and independent public administration. Unfortunately, historically, since the birth of the Greek state, the structural features that make up the way in which the administrative system is organised, established and operated in our country are the hydrocephaly of public services, functional introversion, customer relations, corruption phenomena, the partitioning of almost all administration. They are features that have led to the depreciation of public administration by the citizens and the deep conviction that if you have no "sulf in Koroni" nothing can be accomplished by the public. It is a system established in such a way that it best serves the governors and makes it difficult for the citizens, so that the latter can be forced to demand rupture from the first and even better established to serve the great interests of the few and the chosen local and foreign capital. It is a system that nourishes and maintains the unbroken cycle of the interlocutory: the helpless and therefore dependent voter, the willing to help politician, of course always in exchange for the return of the service in the interests of specific business circles. In close proximity, of course, the well-known mediaists, exiled and defeated the public administration as it suits them. For this image of the Greek government, the political system is responsible and not the administration itself. The policies implemented are those that created bureaucracy, complexity, corruption and pluralism and not the human potential of the majority, who have been accused and deliberately persecuted. So the pathogenesis of public administration comes to heal this bill, introducing three major areas. The first large section is the selection process for directors, directors, directors and heads. For the first time a system of open, transparent democratic choice, with independent objective criteria, is established with an independent personnel selection authority, which will have all the guarantees that such a procedure must have. The second section is evaluation. The bill introduces the evaluation of the work of each public body, as well as institutional guarantees within the administration. This is the institutional role taken by the plenary of management and department employees, which sets the objectives of the service, monitors them and submits a self-assessment report. We also have the existing heads of state, but in the context of clear targeting, and with the prior consultative interview, to leave no room for a punishing process. On the other hand, an anonymous assessment of the heads of government is also provided in the context of the democratic functioning of the administration. The Public Administration Observatory, which will monitor the performance of the work produced, as well as the establishment of a Management Listening Commission to social bodies or citizens per two months in which the problems of maladministration or bureaucracy will be recorded, are institutions of social accountability and social control. The third large section is the establishment of the National Register of Officials of Public Administration. Its aim is to record all the serious and advanced potential of the public administration with high formal qualifications. All legal persons governed by public law will be managed by this tank. Fortunately, ladies and gentlemen, our country has great potential from valuable and well-trained executives who can effectively serve public administration. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is another example of how different, from the previous ones, the first left-wing government is coming to rule. On the other hand, social control, on the opposite side of the rhetoric, openness and democracy. You've done a lot of noise, gentlemen of counterpopulation, along with the media picnics, for post-call employees. But you know very well that another thing is the Minister's partner, who is reasonable and must be a political person, who serves the policy of the government in question, and yet the head of a public service, who serves public administration for the benefit of society regardless of the government. As you know, too, very well that these screams did not come up with resonance on Greek society. Because society is well aware of this difference and recognises the moral advantage of the Left. The bankrupt political system plays its change. He dreams of a fall of the SYRIZA - ANEL government, dreams of universal governments, so that the regime of interlocutory and corruption can continue to regulate the country's fates. But we won't do them a favor. Dreams will stay. By means of bills that extend democracy, with bills that guarantee human rights, with bills that relieve those affected by the humanitarian crisis, we are moving forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, Mrs Catherine Iglezi. Mr. Panagiotis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u260	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the permanent and lasting objection of the Greek citizens by the establishment of the new Greek state is the behaviour of the administration towards the citizens and the tenths of what they bring with it opaque and intertwined practices. You are, of course, not all officials, but those officials who are interconnected with the party government, from which they draw their strength and in which they owe their place. Sickness begins from the time of bavarian rule. A public sector that is not friendly to the wide layers of the people is being built. Since then, the Otto's Bavarians have been asking the Greeks to do their homework, while at the same time building a vicious state, a state of divinity. In the comedy "the official" of the top theatrical writer of the 19th century and MP in the Greek Parliament, Miltiadis Hourmouzi, is pictured, with enthusiasm, the climate where the Bavarians along with the smokers of Europe manage the public, enjoying economic benefits, while the 1921 fighters fall. Besides, it is well known that the public has dominated Nikitaras with an official beggar's license. From the Bavarians to kings, from dictatorships to democracies, from there to the post-National state, to the Judas of the Colonels, to the revolt of the rotation of the New Democracy and the PASOK to the government and, finally, to the crisis and the famous "4-2-1" to the division of positions between the New Republic of PASOK and DIMAR, we now come to our present day, where political forces and politicians who have found themselves within this grey landscape, within a local scandal, such as the SIEMENS and others, as well as the number of others, do as if they know nothing about the crime and appear innocent pigeons and honorers of everything. The time has come for justice to be done for the benefit of the public sector, for the benefit of the Greek people. So we say, 'then, that's it!'. There is a bill that puts an end to the privileged treatment of officials, depending on the political interests of the party in power. We are, decisively, faced with the problem of partyisation within the public. This Legislation ensures a modern system of procedures for the selection and development of the staff capacity of the public administration, with the establishment of the National Register of Officials of Public Administration, with a transparent and reliable evaluation system, with a rated position structure, with a system of selection of heads away from the slightest government intervention. What has been done so far, that is to say, is to be chosen for the government's executive positions with their own qualification as party identity, ends. The Minister of the Ministry's owner is going through his story. In history, however, it passes and has recorded what has been happening for two centuries, almost a new Greek state. With transparency and objectivity, not the Minister, not the party, not any other government official, but through the institutionalised Staff Register, the competent officials, on the basis of their degrees, postgraduate, administrative experience and - I repeat - without party identity, as has been done so far. The Presidents, Vice-Presidents, Governors, Secretary-General, all those appointed to date by the Government, will be selected exclusively by the Executive Officers’ Registry, as set out in Article 8(1)(a) and (b). The establishment and maintenance of this register shall be done electronically by the AACC, while Article 15 ensures objectivity, by defining the highest rankings, of the rated assessors. Clearly there are the criteria set out in Article 17 for administrative capacity to adequacy and knowledge of the subject, attitudes towards citizens and other elements. With a view to society, this draft law introduces provisions on accountability and social control and a Public Administration Observatory is thus established with a two-month process of listening to social actors and citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, as a SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, we are proud of this draft law, which ensures transparency, dignity and efficiency of public administration. I welcome the government's initiative on social justice achieved through the bill, and I think that no one, but no one, can vote in favour of all of Parliament's wings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, Mr. Panagiotis Squirrel. Mrs Panagiota Brandza has the floor from SYRIZA for minutes or less, if you wish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u262	Is this the last one?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u263	There is also Mr Symblene, with whom we are closing down and moving on to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Mr President. I'll try to be short. Ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed a pleasure and honour for me to discuss this bill here today. The suffocating conditions, which we inherited and prevail in the country, sometimes force us to move in contrast to our belief and vision. This bill, however, reflects exactly how a left-wing government should rule. It is common secret that one of the main causes of the country's problems is the completely distorting and irrational organization of the state and its services, which, of course, was the result of the clientele system, which was built by those who believed the state was the spoil of an election victory. Ladies and gentlemen, the country's public administration finally has come to pass from the regime of opacity, inefficiency and inefficiency in a normal situation that suits itself to a European, modern society that respects its citizens. Of course, a lot of people will react. They are all those weights, which using the state and the mechanisms they created themselves, managed to keep the whole society at the bottom, building careers, sometimes politics, and getting benefits that they did not deserve. The first part of the bill relates to the creation of the National Executive Register and to the provision of increased responsibility for the public administration. The choice of executives, in this way, comes to correct two huge pathogens. First of all, we will stop serving the highest state positions from hostile, doubtful ability, training and by opaque procedures, with what this entails. We all or almost all live in society, and we know various great ones who have been in a position of responsibility, either because they had the right acquaintances or because they have redeemed other kinds of favors. This kind of situation has cost the country very expensive and it is time for them to stop definitively and irrevocably. Secondly, but equally important, it is the fact that the state will be ensured, regardless of the circumstances. It does not happen in any civilised country in the world that the state is paralyzing, whenever elections are proclaimed and worse, to paralyse when a new government arises. The so-called political positions, namely, party positions, were obliged to change, as they created stagnation in many areas, with huge economic and social costs. However, we all remember the case of Belgium, a state operating for two years without a government. The aim of this bill is to ensure the uninterrupted and uninterrupted functioning of the State. The second part concerning the evaluation of public administration officials, targeting and social accountability comes in turn to solve basic problems. Following the well-known assessment - a paradox of the previous government - which, unfortunately, was the current leader of the New Democracy - a credible, objective and fair system of real evaluation in the public sector is finally in place. The aim of the evaluation is no longer the dismissal of officials. The aim is to ensure the proper functioning and effectiveness of the services and staff to the benefit of the citizen. The fact that they are entering merital criteria ensures the reliability of the system. As also, it is noteworthy to say that the assessment is two-way downwards and vice versa. For the first time, the term ‘targets’ is introduced to the Greek State. Ladies and gentlemen, today, in a modern democracy, it is tragic that the effectiveness of the public sector lies with the patriotism of the officials. There is no plan with an average principle and no end as regards the actions of the State. We have all heard citizens say that the state is a clear vine. And - I think - we all agree that they have a point. And it is not an honour for the country that the state in some areas uses past century practices. The vote, of the draft law we are debating, is the beginning of the end of this antiquated, unjust and ineffective system. Social accountability. What I mentioned so far is self-evident and should have been done for decades. The innovation that exists in this bill is the institution of social accountability. Most - unfortunately not everyone, because in this Chamber there are also some politicians who were born and have not experienced the harsh Greek reality from the position of the citizen - we have been confronted with the'master' of bureaucracy and the irrationality of the functioning of the state. The citizens in the face of this situation are completely powerless to date. All we can do is trade stories between us. The implementation of social control in public administration is not just a completely democratic process, which puts the citizen next door and not to the state. In particular, it is an important tool for controlling and improving the services provided by the State to the citizen. The citizen now controls, intervenes and improves. I am sure that this institution will soon prove the catalyst for the most important changes in the interests of society. The final and third part of the bill relates to the grading structure and promotion system of public administration officials. The streamlining of the system of promotion in the public sector will establish a sense of justice among people working in it. It will be an incentive for healthy competition, resulting in the rewarding of competent managers, the improvement by training the weakest or their exploitation elsewhere, the increase in productivity, the improvement of the services provided, and ultimately all of this will return positively to the citizen. Ladies and gentlemen, the consolidation of the public sector and its proper functioning are the basis on which we can build a lot. We cannot talk about reconstruction, development, progress and prosperity when we do not have a solid basis on which to base all this. The state, its structures and services are to serve the citizen and not the other way around. So I invite you all to vote together today on a very good bill which is not an innovation, it is just a return to common sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u265	Thank you very much, Mrs. Panayota Brandza. The last speaker is Mr Nikolaos Srmalenes. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u266	Thank you, Mr President, first of all for the concession to be last, but I am still in time. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I think today's bill is really a bill, another radical part for the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, despite the suffocating context in which it is found and with the enormous external pressures currently being made by the refugee wave and the budgetary suffocation we are in. In fact, the Public Administration Bill, in the second phase of governance SYRIZA - ANEL, follows on from the Law on the Cohabitation Pact, the Law on Television Licences, the Law on the Armed Forces, while the first parallel programme with the Ministry of Health, which covers a huge number of uninsured people, was adopted yesterday. This bill, therefore, today for the public administration, really seeks to put an end to the pathogens of decades and heal him, who all admittedly said to be the great patient, a public administration that for decades has operated as the "long" hand of the respective government and as an epic of the clientele and ruptured system established in the country. In fact, the government administration has acted in a way that has transformed citizens into victims of suffering and bureaucracy and their own administration officials into victims of society and citizens, and at the same time to victims of political leaders, who have established party and anxiety. So the bill we are debating today introduces serious areas, seeking to cure these heavy pathogens and, at the same time, to create a state and an administration that is objective, pragmatic, effective for the interests of society and the economic and social development of the country. The National Executive Register and the aptitude and placement of officials in service critical linkages of experienced, trained and administrative skills, the first institutionalisation of the evaluation of officials on the basis of global and objective criteria and not the evaluation of Mr Mitsotakis, which was intended to place at least 15% of civil servants outside the public administration. The establishment of the Plenary Assembly - I come from the administrative area in the 1980s at the Ministry of National Economy, by putting some civil servants on the question of plenary, part-session and address, at which time we were considered somewhat graphic, but the Plenary Assembly can have the staff involved in the development and planning and evaluation of the planning of the service and thus become more operational and effective with regard to the citizens - and the establishment of social control with periodic hearings. All of these are the first serious measures to reverse the course of the administration that has been afflicting Greek citizens for decades. The criticism of the opposition and, in particular, of the parties, which have exercised power, which have been responsible for decades for the state of the partisanism of bureaucracy, of heterocracy, but also, in particular, in recent years, of corruption, of interlocutory and of the service of great interests, is at least awkward, without any convincing background, since they have not only their nest but also their full responsibility for the construction of this state, which the Greek society has so far known. Personally, the only point I would see is that it is a question of review but on conditions, since in the first few years there is also an experience, is the possibility of private sector participation in the National Register of Officers. I accept the statement made by the Minister for the Settlement of the Public Sector in the first phase. However, I am sure that the government, because it accepts proposals - and has proved it in insurance in recent months, that it has been in real dialogue with all the social categories - that if an experience arises, which can also accept this issue, it will be able to move forward. In conclusion, I would like to stand by the myth of the great state, which has been the force of counterpopulation for years, and I would like to say, of course, that not only now, after three years of memoranda, about 750,000 employees have become 550,000 or even fewer - I do not know the exact number - but also before, in relation to the populations of the other countries of the European Union, it was a smaller number than the one they should be. The problem of public administration was not a number issue but a matter of organisation, rationalisation, first-line and responsible positions in contact with citizens. Finally, I wanted to say a word. I am very pleased that, together with other islanders of SYRIZA, we have discussed with the Minister of Administrative Reform, in order to further serve the permanent residents of our islands and especially the small islands, by extending the responsibilities of the JEPs and managing them, so that they actually avoid suffering and economic bleeding from their movement to Athens, to the large urban centres or to other islands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, Mr. Nicos Syrmalene. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the principle of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction bill: 'National Register of Executives of Public Administration, Gradual Structure of Positions, Systems of Evaluation, Promotion and Selection of Heads (transparency - merit and effectiveness of Public Administration) and other provisions'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u268	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u269	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u270	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u271	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u272	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u273	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u274	Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction: “National Register of Executive Officers, Gradual Position Structure, Systems of Assessment, Promotion and Selection of Heads (transparency - Criminology and Effectiveness of Public Administration) and other provisions” was accepted in the first place by a majority. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Monday 7 December 2015, Wednesday 9 December 2015, Thursday 10 December 2015, Friday 11 December 2015, Monday 14 December 2015 and Tuesday 15 December 2015 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u275	The minutes of Monday 7 December 2015, Wednesday 9 December 2015, Thursday 10 December 2015, Friday 11 December 2015, Monday 14 December 2015 and Tuesday 15 December 2015 were ratified. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-23-S1-commons.u276	With the consent of the House at 00.04 the meeting for the day Wednesday, February 24, 2016, at 10.00, on the subject of this House's work: legislative work, continuation of discussion and vote on the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction "National Register of Officials of Public Administration, Gradatory Positions, Evaluation, Promotion and Selection of Heads (transparency and Effectiveness of Public Administration) and other provisions".
