ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Structuring the State Budget for the financial year 2017’. First speaker for today is Mrs Chrysula Katsavria from SYRIZA. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in an absolute calm manner, one of the main protagonists of the modern Greek drama, although perhaps his main responsibility, has recently intervened in the public debate, wondering if there is a solution. In his homonymous book the "guru of modernization", in response to the questions of his friend, well-known journalist and servant of the well-paid truth, reverts consistently to defend the powerful Greece. Among other things, fourteen generations pass the right-wing nationalistism of SYRIZA and ANELs, blames the government for working systematically to establish an authoritarian regime in the country and for the government's policy leading to deadlock, because the disputes, disputes and conflicts with the Union are isolated from the country, which should be involved in creative European initiatives. Mr Simitis, after making an interesting comment on the weakness of society that is passively accepting developments, as in the seven years of the junta, invokes a number of commentators who conclude from the demographic data that there is a representation crisis. The former Prime Minister, as another prophet, concludes by implying their solution. Greece's participation in European unification, globalisation and technological change offer social, economic and political opportunities for another course, which they can use, as after the dictatorship, forces that are present today. Unfortunately or happily for Mrs Gennimata, the former President of PASOK does not include her in his thoughts anywhere. He had not even invited her to the famous 'eight-year-old' on 13 June. But what existent powers would this rationalist modernist, this extreme Europeanist, this German-dominated academic, mean by this unstoppable source of rivers? A sloppy look at the views of colleagues from the New Democracy, PASOK and the River, on the occasion of today's budget debate, gives the answer. And because the "sum of the eight" did not get a Prime Minister for technical reasons, the clergy are falling into the current President of the New Democracy, who Mr. Simitis appointed to the Group of the National Bank in the past, with fees not inadmissible, which has never been disproved. After all, the past guarantees the future. "Semitism" gave the country outstanding personalities in the field of politics and banks, the ministers of stock exchange, the almost popular capitalism, the ministers of insurance, which if their policies had been implemented, the average pension would not exceed EUR 163 already in 2001, central bankers, the older member of the "GOLDMAN SACHS" and an expert on the swaps of the Greek public debt, was also charged with the position of Prime Minister. So productive was the "semitism" he loaned officials and the governments of Mr. Samaras, with the last of Mr. Hardouvelis who had such confidence in the success story, so that he would pull out his statements abroad. But does anyone now remember the valuable services worth EUR 5.5 billion of ‘SIEMENS’, with the most famous system for the security of the Olympic Games, with the C4I, the glossy equipment with the glossy media, for which Mr Simitis declared a complete ignorance? These beautiful things, the systematic and modernised by nearly seven years of octocratic and clienteletic practices that led the country to the hell of bankruptcy and the Greeks to despair, are the Europeanism of Mr. Simitis, his old and new praetorians. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hatzidakis was indeed right, the facts are stubborn. The rapporteur for the national strategy of exiting the crisis, the current president of a socialist international, tied the country with no hesitation and pity at the most critical moment. The same strategy was adopted and served with zealous and irresponsible insistence by those who followed him, with the top of the almost sinless'success-dept', Mr Samaras, and by near the architect of the PSI, with the reformer who colluded with the thousands of small interests, but with no great interest, dismantling insurance, health, welfare, labour rights, with the untreated neoliberal anti-river and consistent enemy of all concepts of public interest and collective initiative, the current leader of the New Democracy with the willing foster parents of the memorandum, the well-known extreme right. Yes, the facts do not show mercy. The friends of "SIEMENS" managed the crisis not to overcome it, but to erase the traces of their guilt. They pissed off the weak to keep getting the known predators rich. They failed to complete even the programs they agreed themselves, trampled over the sacrifices of the people. They handed over power by setting traps and allied with the most analgesic representatives of lenders. Not a left-wing policy, not even a Kenyan policy. Their fear is justified. The effective implementation of three ongoing budgets, with the fair sharing of burdens as far as possible, will undermine their return to the guver. Continuously falling unemployment, the effective response to the humanitarian crisis, the comprehensive policy to protect the rights of vulnerable groups, such as Roma, the stabilisation at increased levels of health and education expenditure as early as 2016, removes any opposition arguments. The EUR 760 million for Social Solidarity Income is a punch for them in the stomach. The short-term measures that we have achieved for debt, the completion of the second assessment with the expected integration into the quantitative relaxation programme and the positive prospects for growth, are despairing them. These are the 'brain events' that confirm the correctness of our strategy to exit the crisis with society upright and on the basis of fair growth. The citizens understand it and despite difficulties they have every reason to support it. So here's a rational approach. The more the economy and society will grow, the more the prospect of bringing the falsified Europeans back to the government. It can also be confirmed by Mr Simitis, who ran away from responsibility, when he realised that the more scandals become, the more they would be swallowed while they remain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much. Mr Charalambos Athanasios has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing these days for the 2017 budget, a budget accompanied by an irresponsible triumph on the part of the Government for its "several achievements", on the development prospects opened in the Greek economy, which finally comes out after six years of commemoration thanks to its governance and famous negotiation." In fact, after the last Eurogroup, the government served in another campaign of lies and misleading. It shows as a national triumph the crumbs it has received, which even the International Monetary Fund considers to be inadequate in exchange for high surpluses and heavy budgetary measures. I imagine you are all aware of what it means to have a high surplus, with what this means to achieve, namely taxes - direct and indirect - and cut pensions and wages. Obviously, they think that we are still at the end of 2014, when they could lie unreservedly and plunder without consequences. Then they had allies the fatigue of much of society and the famous "ethical advantage". Today, however, two years later, there is hardly anyone left to believe in their endless lies. However, because they like that era, that is, the end of 2014 and even today, after the signature of their third and worst memorial, they continue to compare their achievements with those of the Samara-Venizelos period, I would like to remind them of something else that they deliberately hide. Our country did not come out this year of the recession. In the second half of 2014, the Samara Government had achieved a positive growth rate, the country had come out on the market and all international factors had anticipated growth rates very high for 2015. In fact, it was the only country in the Eurozone, according to the Eurojust data that would be developed. Sadly, however, they reasoned without you for throwing the Samara Government and with your sloppy improvised and ideological rule you deepened into the dungeon of the country, sold out all the public property by 2114 and forced even our bailouts to bear the consequences of your unacceptable policies. At this point I would like to read something about. Please have your attention. I read: "Government, troika, local and foreign conflict have agreed to unravel what is left after three years of looting. The bills grant control of the economy, almost all private property, and ultimately control of the whole country at the hands of foreign and domestic speculators. They want the necrometers of Greece to be her bosses. Only this approach shall demonstrate that their crime is premeditated, a crime which in legal terminology is called malicious infidelity against the Greek State.’ Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, are you told anything about this? Do they remind you of anything? Mr. Tsipras himself said so on March 28, 2014. You have then also published the 'Black Bible of shame'. It's all mentioned here, and I'm filing it. What was then called "The Black Bible of Shame", today is called the epic of the new-Gebelists.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u5	Are you jealous now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u6	It's this book, Mr. Comrade. That's what the Prime Minister said. And today you have the courage to celebrate because the economy in some indicators is approaching the figures of 2014. He's still not there. But, if everything goes as agreed, at best we will come back to where we were when you took over, that is, early 2015. They really lost two precious years. Even so, however, things are not as positive, because at the end of 2016 the country, because of you alone, is squeezing away from unrelated taxation. The banks still have capital controls. Citizens' savings have been evaporated, due to the need to pay the titanic taxes you have imposed and continue to impose. The pensions have been cut or, as you like to mention, they have been recalculated and they are now crumbs. The padlocks in the real economy go behind each other. You only have to be present at the heads of the major prefectures of the country, Athens, Thessaloniki and Piraeus, to see how much they have increased in 2015, but mostly in the first half of 2016, applications for bankruptcy. It is a little important, however, that these for your glorious account called “the SYRIZA - ANEL Government with the 2017 budget that brings growth to the country”. Do not deceive yourself, ladies and gentlemen of the government. Your budget will not bring any growth, nor will your economic policy, which you strongly support. And how can this be achieved, when new taxes of around EUR 2.5 billion are planned in 2017, without calculating the measures you will be asked to take in order to achieve the 35% surplus targets for the period 2019-2020, with an unemployment that is robbing and with young people growing for vain investments and privatizations? Those who made the mistake of investing in your governance wanted to run as soon as they understood who they had to do. Failure with the TECF is another example of your failed policy. It is not just that, but you in your budget are talking about, you are on the table, I must confess, in order to increase investment by 9.1%. In fact, it leaves me surprised how exactly you intend to achieve this. And you have the courage now to invite the people to today's strike against the government, against your own government. I would like to know what you will tell your children, what you will tell your friends about what Mr. Tsipras supported in March 2013, with what you are calling to vote tomorrow. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall end. Give me a minute. And since we are talking about numbers, let me mention something that particularly bothers me as an islander. From 1-1-2017 on our islands, VAT will rise to 24%. Those who talk about the end of islands are not excessive. Those who speak of a vertical increase in the cost of life, those who, despite adverse conditions, have chosen to live on the islands, do not lie. The reports that talk about reducing the competitiveness of the islands as tourist destinations and about hundreds of businesses that will be forced to close in the next few years are not made out of a fairy tale, such as your economic policy. The 2017 budget is a disaster budget for our islands. Many of them are coming to complete the work started by other policies culminating in your acts and omissions on immigration and refugee. Lesvos, Chios, Leros, Samos, Kos and other islands are faced with the spectrum of becoming the Ellis islands of Europe. And not only do you not do anything to reassure the concerns of local communities, to show that you have a duplicate plan, but with your economic policy, you lead them to exaltation, and I fear that they will soon begin to deliver. Can you look into the eyes today a new island and tell him what motives are left to stay and fight? Mr President, and now the Minister can still bring in an amendment so that VAT on our islands is suspended for a year, that measures can be taken because there is a great deal of disaster, ladies and gentlemen. Those of you from the islands of Northern Aegean and the other islands will see what a disaster exists. Maybe even URBAN should be suspended for two years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Athanasios, your time is up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since they participated in the educational program "Worker of the Republic" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-six students and students and two teachers from the 3rd Arsadeio Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Constantopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, it is the third memorandum after what the government has accepted in the Eurogroup. The fourth, then, before the gates. I remember here deletion of the debt with an article and the memorandum with a law. And all that from who? From the Government 'first time left'. By who? From you who are currently committed to a primary surplus of 3.5% for 2017 and 2018. You are forgetting, of course, the activation of the cut that refers to the reduction of all public expenditure, of course, with a view to budgetary discipline. Of course, this means more taxes and other measures that creditors will ask for. Ladies and gentlemen, the second budget of the SYRIZA - ANEL government provides for 4.5 billion less revenue for Greek households, 4.8 billion extra taxes, 570 million less for pensions. Gentlemen, you have abolished the CSCE to fund the social income of solidarity. By who? Of the poor. And here's the oxymobile. The poor actually finance extreme poverty. However, you are celebrating, ladies and gentlemen, the government's forty billion debt relief, that is 20% of GDP, forty years, until 2060. I ask you: why don't you do the same as in 2012, when there was a nominal debt reduction of 61%, i.e. a debt reduction of 160 billion? I would remind you that this was the bad PSI of PASOK, which is now justified, the "bad" PASOK, the 2009-2011 "bad" PASOK that kept the country. The antimony were then found in the Constitution, of course, regardless of whether they were on the way to the national PASOK strategy. First, the New Democracy with the Three Zapeia and the 18 billion equivalents, and then the Government "first time left" of the Thessaloniki programme came where? On the road to realism, on the road to the national strategy that PASOK drew to stay the country upright. Gentlemen of the government, the truth of having a career with the debt cut. However, it is worth wondering, and even after the results of the Eurogroup, how this over-population budget will be implemented. Let me remind you that in 2016, from you, the public property was unconditionally assigned to lenders for a hundred years. From you the banks were recapitalised in scandalous terms. From you, their value was zeroed and the gates of the banking system opened in foreign funds. All that's left is your line for the auctions. Can I remind you? 'No house in the hands of a banker'. Today, of course, you are responding with silence. Ladies and gentlemen, the settlement of the red loans of Greek businesses and Greek households comes to an end. I'd say it's the dagger's broken over the borrowers' heads. The private debt settlement goes out to the public and insurance funds, with debts reaching 93 billion and 20 billion respectively. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's commitments break down one after another. Citizens are charged with 9 billion extra measures by 2018, with taxes, wage and pension cuts. They also bear 437 million as a result of an increase in VAT and the abolition of the special scheme on the islands, an increase in taxation on heating oil and fuels by 422 million, an increase in the additional fees for pay-TV and mobile telephony with 89 million, an increase in the VAT on coffee 62 million and cigarettes EUR 142 million and EUR 2.6 billion for new unfair horizontal taxes, provided for in this year's budget. And we saw the paddocks grow by 34%, based on the investigations of the EU and the GFCM. So, gentlemen, there's no growth. So you strangle entrepreneurship. Entrepreneurship needs support, of course. That is why at last institutionalise the irresponsible account requested by small and medium-sized enterprises and reintroduce hundreds of payments for insurance and tax obligations. What you are doing is with the overtax that you have imposed on you to show the way to the businesses for Bulgaria. You spoke of reform and voted for an insurance policy, I would say, deregulation with cuts of more than EUR 1.9 billion. You are talking about investment and development and there is a total absence of an integrated project. Investors, gentlemen, leave the country! We lived the sale of PPA to the Chinese investors, the dive of PPC, the blocking of Afantos's property in Rhodes as archaeological site, the shipwreck of "ESFA", the Azeri "SOCAR" and the loss of 180 million. The Greek is also abandoned and turned into a hot spot, in a store of soulless refugees, while you have none, but no plan to exploit it. We are all talking about fighting unemployment, and only from the Greeks have seventy thousand jobs been lost! And after all, you in the 2017 budget are predicting an increase in public revenues of 1.561% from the privatizations. Gentlemen, you are deceiving a mistake! And I come to the field of education. There is also the inaccuracy of the budget in the field of education. The real cost increase is EUR 161 million and not EUR 257 million, as the Minister said yesterday. And of this, 95% would say about wages and pensions. So about six thousand intakes in primary school and a thousand five hundred in secondary school. Gentlemen, you face the future of our children with carelessness. The real wealth of our country is gone. Four hundred and fifty thousand young scientists left abroad. Here too, the questions raised are many: How will wage increases and pensions be made for teachers, how will they be recruited and how will the gaps be covered, how will research and innovation be supported, when there are specific commitments to lenders? Finally, there is no care for vulnerable groups. Remove tax exemption for medical expenses and dramatically limit children’s allowance mainly for our eight hundred thousand third-party citizens. There is also no caring for the luxurious, when demographics are a major issue for the country. Ladies and gentlemen, this budget leads to deadlocks and that is why we are voting against it. Our proposal is that our President, Mrs Fofi Gennimata, should propose a government with a large majority with a national line of understanding so that we can get the country out of the deadlock and put the country on the path of growth and prosperity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u11	Mr Saridis has the floor from the Centroon Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the budget should be able to answer the questions on the Greeks' lips: What is coming? What do I have to wait for? What will the government do to improve my life? The budget is the most important law in which the government is called upon to reflect its policy with figures and figures. Theoretically, when reading the budget, the government's programme should be seen in its details. Unfortunately, this does not apply to the budgets of the Greek governments for many years. First, since we entered the memoranda, we are no longer writing our own budgets. Then, the truth is that, because we owe, we are not in a position to prioritise neither our needs nor our wishes. Very simply, loans are now prioritised and, in particular, repayment of interest and debt. It's clear and clear that we're obliged to pay the bills first, and then the doctor, the teacher, the military. And that fact alone, that we have lost the right to decide what is important and what is not, has led us to the present deadlocks, which this budget for 2017 also recycles. They are dead-ends which one can easily understand, considering that we are moving towards reductions in wages and pensions, increases in taxes and social security contributions, circumvention of labour rights and substantial degradation of the concept of a'social state'. Many colleagues, in particular the Co-Police, in an effort to regain their morality, like to remind everyone that Greece has been worse, in Turkish domination, in the Occupation, in the junta. I find that very wrong. When the Greeks were asked to mess with the Turks, the Germans, the pigs, they knew, they understood, they knew very well who the enemy was. Today, without a third party's fault, we have to react to injustice. Today, without being able to trace the enemy, we are forced to eat our flesh. Who's to blame? Is it our bad head and the people we chose to rule on us? Is it the banking system's fault and the ones who offered us a loan every time we put gasoline or every time we bought a newspaper? Is it because we thought we were smarter than the puppy barbarians in the north? The Greeks feel deceived. The Greek people think they fooled him, they brought him in. We're working longer hours for less money. We pay more for less services. No matter how consistent we are, the money we have to repay interest and debt is just as much that we will fail. The partners who have become lenders, the allies who have become troikas, the friends who have become nightmares, are asking us for impossible, impossible. Anyone who has followed the negotiations knows that Europe's belief in playing with us, being tyrannized and tortured is diffuse. It's a scary answer to why they're doing this. They do, why do they think they're superior to us? This is the only reason why they behave as they behave. Is it possible in Europe of 2016 that there are people who believe they are superior to other people? And yet! In Germany, the banks will soon seek money from the ordinary depositors to keep their money. In Greece, the government asks those who have hidden a franc in the layers to take it to banks so that they do not need a fourth recapitalisation. How can that be fair? In Germany, the Minister of National Defence and Dr. Symble decided a few months ago to fund with a huge amount of military equipment and the construction of an army. So, is Germany once again equipped in its bloodthirsty history to face what enemy? Greece, on the other hand, when its enemies are so close that their voices are heard in our lands, when they cry out of their own and threaten them permanently and constantly, was forced to cut off the cost of the Ministry of National Defence and make cuts to the wages of its heroic pilots. How sensible is that? To sum up, therefore, we must, before judging the budget, remember what position we are talking about. We speak from his place underneath, the lower, the weak, the powerless. That's how friends and partners want us. They want us on our knees. Whatever government we had, from the same position, that's what he'd talk about. There is no political power that could in itself change something from the country's negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen, no one can believe that the Greek Government is alone and alone responsible for its mess in the budgetary crisis. Having said that, let us now come to consider what the current government is doing to get out of this position. Well, it's too easy. It's nothing. It's nothing at all. There's not a line in the budget that's convinced that the government knows what it's doing. You couldn't put forward any arguments to convince us that you have a plan, that you're ready to deal with what's coming. The sloppyness with which you operate can only be compared to the irresponsibility that you display in your communication with Greek citizens and the Greek people. There is no sign of rationalisation of expenditure, there is no point in today's budget which shows that you understand that the Greeks' tax capacity has been exhausted, even those few that we can do as Greeks will not do, according to the budget, nor in 2017. The Health System continues to hang by a thread. The National Defense will be left without any equipment programs. I go back all over Macedonia, I go back to Thrace, I talk to people, I talk to civilians. They say to me, "What does the Centroon Association represent?" I answer them that it represents consensus, logic, national unity. If we don't all unite together, we're not going to do anything. If you don't understand, then we're not on the same road. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, too. Mr. Fotakis, Deputy Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to refer to the chapter on education and research, which is a transporter of vessels, has as a common place the production, dissemination and exploitation of knowledge, of knowledge which, as a self-worth, extends the spiritual horizons of society and helps it stand up to the conditions of the deep crisis that it is experiencing today. At the same time, they produce the knowledge that can contribute to productive reconstruction, to the development of the country, creating hope and prospects for the future. The government, right from the outset, gave great weight and priority to research. This is clearly reflected in the institutional and legislative initiatives taken over the past twenty months, but also in the budgets of the years 2016-2017. I would like to refer to some of the figures. The Public Investment Programme for Research from 97,000 in 2014 followed a continuous growth course to 141,000 in 2015, 148,000 euros in 2016 and a forecast for 180,000,000 euros in 2017, that is, almost doubled. Similarly, the regular budget for research from 60,000 000, which was planned for 2015, has increased by 45% - I repeat by 45% - to 88 000 000 for 2016 and is expected to increase further to 124,000, i.e. 41% for 2017. It is no coincidence that total spending on research in the country, the difficult year in 2015, according to data from the National Documentation Centre, reached 1% of GDP, which is a significant increase from 0.6% or 0.7% of the previous years. Compounded with this information is the provision for recruitment of a hundred researchers for the next two years 2017-2018, after a six-year drought recruitment in the research centres. These posts are complementary to the thousands of new members' posts, which were approved for the universities of the country by the Ministry's previous political leadership. And all of this - I stress - happens in crisis situations, which usually lead to different options, since research is the easy target for cuts. I would like to close this numerology with one last point, one which I consider to be very important. What's behind these numbers? Behind these figures is a specific ideology, a specific political conception. It is the perception that connects growth with the pursuit of better education, better health, support for society and the reduction of inequalities, and it is fair growth rather than a simple growth of percentages that only concerns the welfare of numbers. Behind these figures is the effort, the first systematic measures, I would say, to deal with the bleeding of the most important capital that the country has, its human resources, the one-sided fleeing of new scientists abroad. The first steps are taken to curb Brain Drain and replace it with the mobility of scientists. But also in something else, the 2017 budget contributes to research. It is the creation of the conditions to support healthy and innovative entrepreneurship, which will be away from past state-owned practices and logic, based on the emergence of a new business class with a central body of young children. Ladies and gentlemen, in the circumstances of the crisis the country is experiencing there is an absolute need for urgent and immediate intervention. There's no room for delays. In this context, we need to see what we can do immediately, what we can take advantage of the sources of funding that exist. The possibilities for financing from the regular budget, despite the increases mentioned, are still insufficient due to the austerity measures and the restrictions imposed. Other sources of funding are the large European Union Horizon 2020 programme and the ESDP. Horizon 2020 is characterised by a very competitive environment where Greek scientists actually have a leading role, they have excellent performance. Nevertheless, this environment contains serious uncertainties for the future. The implementation of the NRP 2014-2020 has been launched dynamically with predictions of high funding for research and innovation, forecasts of 1.2 billion. The new ESDP, however, incorporates thematic and regional constraints that do not allow for the development of an integrated research strategy, particularly in the context of the crisis. What's our answer? Our response to this situation is the signing of the loan contract with the European Investment Bank for the transmission of EUR 240 million in support of new scientists and of research carried out at universities, TEIs and research centres in the country. At the same time, a new institution, the Hellenic Institute for Research and Innovation, ELIDEC, is being established, which is a new institution for managing these resources and promoting basic research, which was completely missing. The first notice for candidate PhDs of ELIDEK has already been closed and attracted more than two thousand applications, and the invitation for research projects of research scientists and researchers has already been published. These invitations will be made in a systematic and consistent way in the future. The main non-negotiable element of success will be the pursuit of scientific quality and excellence in the proposed projects. It is expected that more than four thousand scientists will benefit from the activities of ELIDEC over the next three years. This choice of government is based on the budget to be voted on. But we don't live there. There is already a concrete plan to make effective use of those research results of entrepreneurial interest. Within this month, in December, we will announce the creation of a special Innovation Participation Fund, the 'Innovation Window', as we call it, which will include a mixture of resources of the NSRF or the European Investment Fund, EIF, and perhaps later of other private funds. This fund will be part of an overcapital development fund and will aim to assess ideas and research results that are of interest to the creation of new innovative enterprises, finance the creation and capture of technicians and startups, thus contributing to the development of knowledge-intensive entrepreneurship. The Innovation Fund, combined with a number of other incentives under the Development Act, is expected to help to blossom youth entrepreneurship in the country and to contribute in its way to reversal of the fleeing abroad. Finally, I would like to invoke a slogan that was once empty and now takes flesh and bone. We were once saying, and now it seems to be true that research expenditure is not a cost but an investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u15	So do we. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-three students and students and two educational attendants from the 5th Gymnasium of Peristeri. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Vardakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, after a long period of economic and social challenges the Greek economy enters a path of stability. The second budget presented by our Government is positive, both from a budgetary point of view and from the illusion of our policy in dealing with taxes, expenditure and our strategy to alleviate vulnerable sections. The fact that the two consecutive quarters of the year marked a positive growth rate is an indication that the current year will record positive growth rates. The fact that the completion of the first assessment of the fiscal adjustment programme was successful helps improve the climate of stability and confidence in the Greek economy. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard these days - and indeed the challenge is great - by Vice-Population MPs: 'Strengthen, destroy, mortgage the present and future of the country, bankrupt the country, put a brake on development, which New Democracy was ready to approach, smash the dreams of the new generation'. Some also talked about Pakistan, others about a dangerous government that has to leave. A few days ago, the Secretary of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group had the courage to speak of a corrupt government that must resign and come the white, the undefiled New Democracy, with the most popularly advertised system of training and training, with the agreement of truth, with new people - we see them every day as if they had not spent a day over anyone - to get the country out of the crisis created by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. Let us therefore say a few things about the truth agreement, because we must not have a short memory. Unfortunately, I have heard Mr Athanasiou continue the same rhetoric and Mr Konstantopoulos earlier, as if he were not Mr Brutsis and his partner, the current Secretary of the Democratic Partnership who really broke up the work relationship in Greece, so that the second assessment is at risk today of not closing, because we are trying to restore working normality in the country. Now listen to the truth agreement: on the one hand we have a country that is on the verge of bankruptcy, a society that suffers, a society which is the victim of an unprecedented tax policy that has no limits, from which we are calling for more and more sacrifices, carpets that have no end, a society that the people of day after day are constantly getting poorer, that the hungry are growing with geometric progress, people who have no food, ladies and gentlemen. In Greece of EMU there are children who faint in the schools of asitia, reliving jobs that have disappeared, such as ballots, folders, and all the others we experience every day. The most skeptical is convinced that observing what is happening with the dumpsters and the remains of the people's markets, what happens with the arrays of the parishes, where those who come and ask for a dish, a society that doesn't believe and hope nothing. On the other hand, it is the ultimate challenge with good cooperation of those who bear most responsibility for the fate of the country, the pillars of democracy, that is, the parties of power. The unemployed, the micro-retired, the homeless, the hungry, the indebted businessman. On the one hand, it is poverty, poorness and destruction and on the other, waste, illegality, hooding. Were you sloppy, Mr. Athanasios? Mr. Athanasios is gone. It is not acceptable when PPC’s immoral ranch has left thousands of families without power for days, as the state mechanism was completely incapable of collecting real estate tax, at the same time the state exceptional grant of political parties would not be reduced even half of the euro. You have reduced once again wages, pensions, and dismantled any family planning. The parties became state-owned and evolved into factors of a state-run system. While the public owes to thousands of enterprises and does not return VAT, while the IKA is unable to pay the pensions of thousands of low-paid pensioners living below the poverty line, you are planning new reductions in supplementary pensions, but also new measures, at the same time that a few days ago co-guided by the co-pilots, the disbursement of the third instalment of the state grant, causing the public to feel the same. Ladies and gentlemen, the parties owe the banks a total of EUR 244.002,000, and yet, as Professor Matsaridis recently wrote, the power parties no longer treat as the representatives of the Greek people, but as waste incomes with guaranteed income. Colleagues of the New Democracy, are you told by any of this? That is what Mrs Bakoyannis and the Secretary of your parliamentary group told you a few years ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u17	The Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities is Mr Augias. You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u18	That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen. You'll hear them here. So did we. Of course, Mrs Bakoyannis and Mr. Aygeakis had better documentation, because they knew them from within. That's what they told you. Well, who destroyed the country. To close, Mr President, I would like to say that we really need to be serious. You may have forgotten. We'll remind you of them. The Greek people will not forget them, so you must appeal to a budget that comes because of these atrocities, the ashes that you have created today, we are really trying to put this country on its feet and get the Greek people out of the crisis and create a society, get it out of the deadlock and create better days. From this, then, the ash and ash you have actually created - and I did not tell you, Mrs Bakoyannis told you, Mr Augerakis told you, the Greek people tell you - with all our powers we will try to get this country out of the deadlock. That is why we will vote on this budget which may have weaknesses, but it has a positive sign. We invite you, too, to show that you are exemplified by your mistakes, to vote for this budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u19	Mr Vagionas from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in January 2015, twenty-two months before today, the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict comes and after eight months of tough negotiation - I am referring to the Baroufakis period - with the capital controls that will remain very much even with a referendum, the coup d'état came out at a five-year bond and a 4.95% interest rate, when interest rates from Europe are from 1% to 2.5%. I am pleased that with Eurogroup, the week before, what our partners had promised in November 2012 became a reality. What happened? The write-down of debt. Who announced it? Mr. Reggling. Who's Mr. Reggling? He is the president of the ESM, who charged the Baroufakis period with EUR 100 billion in the country. Mr Stathakis questioned it and asked a colleague to bring these things in writing. I ask Mr Stathakis: is the money that Mr Regling has said that 21.8% of the debt is being lost - EUR 45 billion - but at the end of 2060, is it or is it not true? That's the reality. Don't look good. The promises of the Troika lenders - you now tell them institutions, that's okay - is that true or isn't that true? But no one has said anything about quantitative relaxation. This is not the responsibility of the Council of Europe, it is the responsibility of Mr Draghi. But who guarantees us that the quantitative relaxation that had to be done since yesterday will not go after September of the German elections? Nobody! I want an answer from the Minister of Finance. But I will confine myself to very few things, because time is limited. In times of recession, interest rates are very low and are increasing in periods of growth. The minister responsible is here and can confirm me or deny me, what is happening today in America. The smaller surpluses that the government has achieved are not the result of tough negotiations, but in deep crisis conditions. Germany has negative interest rates and, indeed, small Germans are complaining about zero interest rates. There are negative interest rates, very high, up to 3%, which are exploited by some who have the financial potential, namely the grand depositors. That's the truth. But for 2017 you have EUR 2.6 billion of taxes. What reflects the EUR 2.6 billion? Basically, the outstanding debts to the State are remedied. From 75 billion, which was the end of 2014, they went to 92 billion in August 2016. In other words, in the 20 months around 900m euros, due on average. Why am I saying that they are actually reflected in the budget? When more than 1.3 billion is spent on indirect taxes, they will be collected for sure. However, the remaining 1,2-1,3, which is direct taxation, will become redundant by 80% and I wish we all were here next year to see what the truth is. In other words, dues will not be 92 million, but will exceed 100, because tax capacity is not the one that was a few years ago, it is quite different. That is to say, first, they see their faint enterprises as those who are still holding and then they will last pay the tax, lastly the insurance contributions, which also went up by 1.3 billion over the two years. But I will only confine myself to those bisirams, which you were talking about with the five-euro you abolished when a sick person was introduced to the hospital when he needed it. He was picking up the state about 20 million euros a year. You replaced it with 1.5 billion euros of reservations from two and a half million pensioners. With 6% reservation from all pensioners in favor of EEAS, make the account. As a minimum, it is 1.5 billion and with a very simple arithmetic. When a pensioner gets 500 euros, the reservation is 30 euros a month. For twelve months it is EUR 360. So you didn't pay the thirteenth wage, but you abolished the twelfth. Because the five-eyed sack he took, becomes 140 euros, i.e. tips. You abolished the CSCE to three hundred and fifty thousand pensioners. How much did these pensioners receive from their main pensions and from the EAW? Eight hundred and fifty euros. How much do they get today? Six hundred seventy euros. And with the Katrugalu law coming, the young will be paid 25% - 30% less. I mean, they'll get 500 euros. In other words, pensions from this year become about half the pensioners of EUR 500. And what about the big pensioners you were talking about? You've thrown them all together. No one has more than 1300 euros. With the reservations, they take 1130. This is the range of Greek pensions. But some of the government's areas claim that total budget spending will be increased, especially for welfare, for disabled and helpless people. It is a good thing that Mrs Jufi - I do not see her here - has developed the prerogative status of the Scandinavian countries. But the Scandinavian countries have other things to say. Mr Mitafidis also referred to Finland for its educational system and its strong economy. But, Mr Mitafidis, there are ten gold smelters there. Here we have 12 decisions of the Council of State to ensure that the scourges in Skouria work, and yet you are against them. So go see or log online with eight environmental monitoring stations in the outer and indoor areas of gold metallurgy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Bagiona, time has passed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u22	So the least you can do is listen to the New Democracy. Less taxes, less costs. It has already been costed and announced by the party president, Ms. Mitsotakis. And here we are to talk about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr. Bagiona. Mrs. Liana Kanelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it would not be easy to imagine one, a year and a half ago, two years ago, three, a few years ago, in 2012, when you were starting to brag towards power that one would need a 'Ristor' for defence. I recommend it to the other Greek citizens. You can pick him up at the hard time. Even if he's in Kastelorizo. Kastelorizo then we talked about it, if you remember correctly, as the background that George Papandreou used to get us into the International Monetary Fund. I'm not going to talk to you about this today. I do not accept eating a minute of the time of the MPs and Greek citizens to deal with things that do not prevent fear in a wise man, but draw the curtain. Since he is the Deputy Minister of Education here to say that innovation does not consist of teaching image. It can't be her. You cannot have the scientific approach to teach that state media or others can cut footage on occasion by creating images of double utility. Because that is how you do nothing but increase the value added tax on Nazism and the extreme right in Europe. What you're typically condemning. Speaking of external issues, however, Mr Katrugalos who raised pensions - because with images we are playing - is currently a Prime Minister's meeting from another position in Israel. And in Israel at the moment, VAT on the islands is not being discussed. The great interests of imperialist competitions in the region are being discussed. That's the truth. Where visits and strong footprints, as Mr. Kammenos says, in the US agent led the Greek people with a blocked Athens to listen to the word "NATO" five hundred times and to learn and slowly train with a left hand, with a right-hand sign, with a golden mark that NATO will save him. In the talks that will take place in Genoa, along with Mr Anastasiades, Mr Akinji and others who intend to present them as European figures, foreign policy is valued in money. When he hears the word 'NATO', the Greek people know that it is 2% of his GDP, which must at all costs give to a damaged economic and social system, with profoundly unpopular prospects. You're talking about a growth that doesn't concern him. And you keep foreign policy at the level of a cheap, obscene, extremely common, used patrio-ethnic cadalion, changing them and changing the footage. It's not true. The Communist Party warned you by oral secretary, by mouth of the world that is out at the moment - the world is out and protests - that competition alone can pay them and will pay them to the level of playing with the matches of impressions at a time when we have liquidity and mobilisation in the sensitive area of the Middle East. If NATO develops at the border with Russia, from the Arctic to the Suez forces, we must grasp the participation of the Greek people, the winterer, violently poor, in 2% of its GDP. And he thinks he's gonna negotiate five crumbs by 2060! At the moment, the discussions that are taking place at the level of foreign policy, the Greek-Turkish, the great idealism, the 'Sultanata', which you play easily, are completely economical designs. It is what you say 'you must go out on the market'. You cannot go out on the markets - and this system wants to be overturned - without putting on the most expensive material that is home. And for us home is the Greek people. There is no humanitarian crisis that is created without being on the ground or in a surrounding interest. The energy routes in the region that have created this "infarction" that looks like a humanitarian crisis has been placed in NATO. The talks on the guarantees in Cyprus concern NATO. It is the solution that is chosen and discussed and that will also be discussed by Genoa. However, despite the position and the insistence to say that the Cyprus issue is not something that concerns the country, you have said and accepted along with the previous ones the major lie, that the entry of Cyprus into the European Union would solve the Cyprus problem. And now the Cyprus issue will be resolved by NATO. NATO will unify it. And you will hear unregulatedly all of you talking about a two-state confederation where NATO will keep it in the region. And NATO will keep it in the area, when you hear Mr Zorlou, while we wear it here - with very great art, it is the truth - communal 'jurlo-Romanism' patriotism. The next visit to Kasso to get the mother of the Bridge and Rupakis together to go. To defend what interests? The interests of cable-laying? The interests of transporting gas? Did you hear Mr. Zorlou and Mr. Akinji what they say about Cyprus? You go and tell the Greek people that this is not about him, foreign policy is something small, so that it does not appear in the imperialist game of competition with the designs of the European Union, NATO and the United States. In competition with beasts that suddenly make us feel small and insignificant - so why not find them somewhere around Kastelorizo? - in competition with China, in competition with other emerging very large powers, capitalist such as Russia at the moment, you present the falsehood of a risk, so that oil and energy interests can be promoted. The truth is that this country is hungry because it has this system of governance, these central political choices within NATO, within the European Union. It's not one Erdogan's magnificence. These were always the designs and were asked to ensure the interests of natural gas either by pipelines or in ways that are different, such as ships, so that the Turks can say what they are saying, with a direct impact on the lives of Greek citizens, who are trained to see the refugees, who the system produces with wars, and Greek businessmen to invest the Abacco from money in the former ancient Greek city of Arbila, today Erbil, a part and capital of Iraqi informal Kurdistan.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u25	Mrs. Kanelle, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u26	I shall conclude, Mr President. You are selling him lies to foreign policy, with the European Union that, through NATO bombings, we have a request for the Council of Europe from Kosovo to have the right, apart from participation, to speak. And see all the colleagues who have gone to the Foreign and Defence Committees and you represent the country in the European Union. It's a legend. You said a lie, and that's what you were elected for. And it is much bigger than the referendum that Europe is changing. Europe does not change. That's your lie. It was and is a capitalist nest and by stepping on to the Americans, you do nothing but carry out the exodus of the Greek people and subject to the Greek people in the possibility of a small ignition, which will bring him before war, shed blood, as it is now shed for the anti-grass measures, for which you are calling on him to produce my patriots as supposedly a patriotic sacrifice.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u27	It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u28	In this sense, then, be very careful, because in the budget these things do not talk about them. You talk about the billions as if they are towels and the rest you place them in military vineyards and psycho flights, when your own Prime Minister, psycho flights, with psycho people, in psycho spaces, for psycho foreign policy and for psycho for the benefit of the Greek people! There cannot always be an alibi to the feasibility of the crisis of the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u29	Mrs. Kanelli, in the name of the enthusiasm, I invite you to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u30	Mr President, may I say that the abuse of this time is invoking anyone who objects. All the rest of you have no reason to cut them off. They have too much time to agree with politics, and the former and the next. As the fourth Memorandum only the JRC will be in front of you, and when it is entitled to take it, and when it is not entitled to take it so!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u31	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Mr. Castaris has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, while we are debating the 2017 budget here today, outside the squares of the whole country, workers are concentrating on the strikes and claiming collective agreements, not to pass the demands of the International Monetary Fund, not to pass the liberalisation of collective redundancies, to ensure and strengthen public health, public education, social security and the social state. They know that they can succeed, that they can conquer all of this, because despite the crisis around the world, a huge wealth is generated. Recently the report of the 'CREDIT SUISSE', which says that the rich 1% of world wealth holds 50.8% of the richest and 10% of the world's population owns 89% of the world's wealth, that is, 90% of the citizens, of the people on earth only enjoy 10% of the produced wealth. In fact, the evidence shows an increase in the wealth of the few at the expense of the overwhelming majority of the many in the years of the crisis by 5%, that is, the lair of inequality opened up more in the period of the crisis. I assume that this evidence is very reasonable. After all, it also contributed to making richer and poorer people in our own country, where, as far as it was possible, dismantling public health, public education, labour relations and the social state. And even though he was punished electorally for that, he continues. And today she has the courage to continue to advertise her policy as the only cure medicine for illness that she has been sprinkling. Of course, it does not say very openly that it seeks to get the current government down to just keep making the richer and the poorer. He says he wants to save the country, discharged by SYRIZA's true crooks, as the Vice President of the New Democracy said a few days ago, who visited our city of Katerini. And how will he save the country from the crooks? Continuing to do what he has done so far, that is, the richest and the poorest. For example, the President of Officership says the government is ideologically engaged in collective agreements instead of dealing with the creation of new jobs and additional investments. What does that say to 90% of the population? That he can work for investors, if he rejects his idea of being normally rewarded for his job, that he will find a job, as long as he renounces his employment rights. What did Tomsen of the IMF say? "You are Vulcans and you are 300 euros too much to pay." So the idealism of the left is the restoration of collective bargaining, says the Civic Opposition that has shattered them, while the personal conventions she chooses - and let her know how and how far down they form wages - are not idealism, but a precondition for competitiveness and growth, as she does. But what development? And growth for who? If in Pieria, for example, we were to accept two - three major investments, giving tax incentives or tax exemptions - to investors - in order to create in our prefecture, which is suffering from unemployment, four - five thousand jobs, but with personal contracts of 300 euros, would that mean growth for our region? Would it mean developing a large scale for the country's national economy? No, of course not. And they know that well, because this is not a scenario coming from the future. It has already been implemented. We lived it before, when big investors with scandalous tax exemptions moved their profits to Swiss banks and offshore companies. You know them very well, because they're your friends. They are the ones on the Lagard lists, in Panama's lists, who own the media, big-workers and national suppliers. It is therefore not the Government's ideality to protect industrial relations. It is a government ideology, contrary to the ideology of neoliberal supporters, who produces irrational inhuman situations, such as those reflected in the elements of the ‘CREDIT SUISSE’. We, these figures that say that 10% of the world's population holds 90% of world wealth, not only are concerned, but they also anger us and load us - not only the government, but each of us separately - responsibility to fight as hard as it may need to prevent them. We can't do miracles and we know that. The connections aren't on our side yet. But the more neoliberalism insists on showing its sharp teeth, the more the overwhelming majority of the depressing people who grab their food from the table will be assembled. And don't expect us to get tired, we have endurance. Neither are we frightened by the voices nor by the threats, nor by the lies, nor by the bones of disinformation of your willing mediator allies. We will not be disappointed by the difficulties. We know that we cannot correct from one moment to the next what the previous governments have been destroying for decades. We know that what a left government can do today was not what it dreamed of doing, because some have made sure that it was cut off all the productive and creative legs of this country. But we're fighting it, and we're going to keep fighting. With mistakes? Maybe. With compromises and necessary retreats? But always with the aim of setting up the social state, with the aim of the welfare of the many and not the few. And this budget is oriented in this direction. Finally, I'd like to carry something that a farmer from Pieria mountains told me last night. Seeing the debate in the House, it formed an image that asked me to convey it here. The image we give out is that New Democracy and PASOK set fire and burned down the country and the workers and now they sit on the side and shout out and judge why Tsipras does not quickly erase this fire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u33	So do we. Mr Ilhan Ahmet has the floor from the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the Prime Minister of the country visited Thrace a few days ago. In a total of nine speeches - because he was proud of having nine speeches in one day - he said many times that he knows that he is visiting one of the poorest regions of Europe. This in itself could be comforting, that the Prime Minister of the country was aware of where he was, if unfortunately his correct initial admission did not lead him to the wrong conclusions. And I'm explaining. In the poorest area of Greece, in the mountainous and forgotten villages of Thrace, where the heart of tobacco grows, where Bippy Komotini has literally died, where the free professionals and the market are now in despair, where the poorest farmers in Europe live, the Prime Minister gave a unique and concrete promise. Do you know who? That it will give free satellite dishes to a hundred and twenty thousand Muslims to watch TV, the Greek channels. The political surrealism of the SYRIZA government - ANEL at its top! The poor farmers in Thrace, as well as the Thracian people as a whole, who see their dreams for a better life everyday erasing, from now on, will be fed and fed, with the inspiration of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, with satellite antennas costing the spending budget of EUR 3.8 million, ladies and gentlemen. Yes, it's impressive. At a time when ERT, before closing in June 2013, had transponders and could extend this at the minimum cost. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Rural Development should, in view of the new year at least, send the data from the implementation of the first year of the CAP reform and there will be some redistribution, you know. It is a great opportunity for Eastern Macedonia and Thrace and the islands, based on the economic criteria, to get this surplus in the redistribution, especially Thrace, to strengthen tobacco. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been hearing a great deal about the development of Thrace for the past twenty-five years. As a citizen of Thrace first, I would like to ask that government which claims to be sensitive to popular strata, particularly in Thrace, since it wants to do a intergroup committee, from which we may be able to draw some conclusions. Question One: Since Thrace is such an important area for the political system of Athens and for you as a government, as the Prime Minister recently said on his visit, why is it still the poorest region in terms of the development indicators even today? Does this government have any objectives to combat poverty in Thrace? We have not heard anything about this for two years, except the Prime Minister's announcement that I mentioned to you. Question 2: Why is the industrial regions of Komotini, Thrace, Alexandroupolis still full today of closed factories that are devastated over time? On the basis of what development plan does this government intend to give financial support to enterprises? On the contrary, you as a government did not accept any proposal from the actors in our region in the adoption of the development law. Question 3: Why do the three prefectures of Thrace have the highest unemployment rates throughout Greece? Do you have any suggestions? Why don't you launch European employment programmes that already exist for these regions? Ladies and gentlemen, the answer is very simple: you did not have the courage, nor did you have the political will, for real development, because it is, unfortunately, for you to vote only on indirect taxes. Question 4: Why has the restructuring of crops in Thrace not taken place in these two years of your government in order to make use of the vast cultivation areas available to the region by means of development projects? For the first time farmers have noticed that the present Ministry of Rural Development does not - believe me - have no plans for Thrace and the agricultural sector. Question 5: Why have they been cut off, suspended and eventually lost or disappeared development incentives introduced for Thrace in the 1990s and 1980s? Despite the European Commission's 12% decisions, you today as a government do not regulate this issue, thereby condemning businesses in economic extinction. Question 6: Why does the Ministry decide to free movement of buses and international transport vehicles from the Frontier Post of Passive Controls, so that buses can come from Bulgaria, as this station has given important traffic indicators of traffic traffic to the area since 2013, when it started its operation? Are you afraid of something, gentlemen of the government? What is the reason why you do not let buses come from Bulgaria? Question 7. Why has this government not so far been able to open up the economic wings of Thrace and take advantage of the fact that the Balkan market, neighbouring Bulgaria, neighbouring Turkey, are at a distance of breath from it, with what this can mean for the extroversion of Greek businesses? Why not remove the bureaucratic counter-incentives from the present government, so that investment agreements between domestic and foreign investors who would like to invest in the region can go ahead? Does this government have that political will or is he afraid again? Question eight: Why does your Government reject the demands of local entrepreneurship, local government and chambers, so that the seventy-two-hour visa can be given for Turkish citizens and the ferry connection to be implemented? This is a common request from the whole region, from all the actors in Thrace, namely to implement Alexandroupolis' ferry connection with other major ports in Turkey to support tourism in the summer months. Why does the government not shield Thrace with tax incentives so that they can invest in the Greek area with a possible establishment in the region? When these questions are answered, ladies and gentlemen, but frankly, I think that we will be able collectively to draw up policies that will resolve the problems of Thrace. The problem of Thrace is not solved either by the intergroup committees or by anything. Institutions exist, laws exist. There is only one lacking, and that is the political will. If there is political will, then we can solve all the problems. For all these reasons, of course, I am voting against the 2017 budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, too. Mr Tsironis, Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again the budget debate is taking place on the whole political agenda. It is right, in my opinion, because behind the numbers there are political choices. It is, of course, logical that the political conflict should be culminated in the days of the budget. However, I am sorry, ladies and gentlemen, but what does not make sense is that this debate will take place in terms of a coffee shop which is discussing football. Of course, coffee bushes are fighting about football with shallow analyses, because neither coaches are going to solve these problems. I'm afraid a lot of people and a lot of people in here are doing exactly what they do. They look at how they will destroy an opponent without thinking about the problems and how they need to be solved. But that is not why we are not here, ladies and gentlemen. Here we are to solve problems. To remind you of some of the features of some football arguments, I will start with the memoranda, which have a leading role in today's debate. What memorial was the most destructive? So let me remind you that in 2009, when the country entered the memorandum, it has lost 25% of GDP since then and unemployment has escalated from 9.5% to 27.5%. Eighteen percentage points of unemployment consider what it means for the income of the insurance funds. I don't have the time today, it would be worth analyzing that the memos were not a one-way street. I will just say one, this: One year before the memorials the European Parliament had voted in favour of the publication of the Eco-Greek MEP, Sven Gigold, who had an alternative to the crisis throughout Europe, a development solution and not a memorandum. However, this decision by the European Parliament was buried precisely to bring us to this solution. The clock, of course, has not gone back and since then Greece has literally collapsed. I would like to recall again another football dilemma for the great surpluses, which had been agreed by the previous government, 3% for 2015, 4.5% for 2016, 4.5% for 2017 and 4.2% for 2018, while at the moment with this new one, as you say, a disastrous memorandum has 0.05% last year, +0.5% this year - that we will catch and cover it up, as we overcovered -1.75% in 2017 and 3.5% in 2018 and now suddenly those who signed for 4.5% and 4.2% say to us in football 'no, 3.5% this year, the country is destroyed, to go to 2% and claim 2%'. It's called those who didn't claim and went to 4%. It's another football dilemma. Of course, another third football dilemma is to reduce taxation to develop entrepreneurship. Business taxation at the time of the memoranda was probably the smallest tax in the last thirty years. Let me remind you that we were trying 35% business tax and our businesses weren't closed. Strangely enough, however, how, while taxation suddenly fell, while salaries fell, while insurance collapsed, we have 25% GDP loss. The business's gone, running, falling apart after each other. Please tell me, please, a business that has stumbled over this last five years, for which we have a great scientific mystery: how is this most cruel neoliberal policy leading all entrepreneurs to desperation? It's never happened before. I know a tough policy from Thatcher, from Pinochet, from wild neoliberalism. At least then people were hungry, but business was ahead of them. This is how business breaks down and the state breaks down, this in this House has not been said at all! So this is the cafeteria talk I mentioned before, these votes I said. I could say a lot more. But why, ladies and gentlemen? Because no one dares to talk about the real problem. Why did Greece of the memorials collapse, while Ireland did not collapse, Spain of the memoranda and all this? What was the real cause? Where were the causes hidden? Nobody said it. I would really like to remind you that at least we, the Greens, have been talking about it since the 1980s. Shall we start talking about the real problems and stop this impression play? We hear that the best minds are leaving the country. So let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the best minds have never been rewarded in Greece since long ago, because the Greek industry has never invested in innovation. It's a bitter reality. It was always introverted, client-centered and state-run, the Greek entrepreneurship. Never have any government in many decades actually served - and to his credit Mr Fotakis mentioned it - the real research and technology in Greece. It's always been a scoundrel. So when did the good minds get paid in Greece? When did they get rewarded? Now with the crisis we crashed, they get up and go? But before they left, they just now leave at a higher rate. Remind me about entrepreneurship, where's the big wish? Textiles? When did the textiles collapse in Greece? When did food and drink collapse? When did the white devices collapse? May I remind you ‘PITSOS - IZOLA’, which all the major companies, Apostleos, were imported instead of producing Greece? Everything was transferred elsewhere. Already since the 1970s, it seemed, once the junta fell, that all this was "naked", it was "broken", it was introverted, it was not competitive. Volos, Lavrio, Thrace - thank you for reminding me -, Patras were filled with deer. When did they fill the candles, ladies and gentlemen? Agricultural production. When did agricultural production collapse? When did it go from 20% to 3%? Count the numbers to see it's not in the last few weeks, it's not in the last few months, not even in the last few years. So it is not Greece of the memorandum. The memorials, we say and we will say it again, were the tragic result of the collapse and the wrong recipe to a very serious illness, which you will never dare confess. Do we have in Greece, ladies and gentlemen, a real estate register? Do we have spatial planning? Do we have forest maps? Why are other peoples gaining from their garbage, and we pay gold to get rid of it? But here, at the moment, we, the Greek Government, which you so destructively say, are ending the land register, putting forest maps, solving the problems of the arbitrary. May I remind you of the direction of animal production? Days ago, I was with farmers, with my new authority. It's 40% above feed, not now, not last year, in recent years. The drugs are 300% over. Let me remind you that Dutch meat producers earn 40% of their income from by-products and not from meat itself. What do we do with by-products? We're throwing them illegally into various dumps. May I remind you of the fields that are 'paralleling' for those involved in the agricultural sector? I mean, can I remind you that the field in a clientele turns around, corners, corners like it's animated sand? This thing that destroyed the subsidies and gave them where there is no production, the multi-storeyed fields remind you of anything? May I remind you that rural women and farmers are suddenly discovering - the people in the OPEKEPE accounts that they have taken money from the 'Hajidakis package' while they have never taken that money? We have such complaints. Who's got this money coming up unsuspectingly people that they've been charged, and they haven't been charged? Where'd that money go? Suddenly this has happened lately in the memorials, or have we always been? [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. So what you are calling a private sector, Mr Drasakis, our Vice-President, said so, very characteristic of three fascisms: 'Profits abroad, domestic loans and damage to the people'. That's what you call entrepreneurship. You entrepreneurship baptize what's a rag. The hare was baptized in Greece entrepreneurship. Let's tell the bitter truth. Indeed, if we want to answer the questions of the previous colleague, if we want to ask why Thrace did not do so, because the BIP has been devastated, I shall reply with a word, Mr Pangalos said so. Mr. Pangalos said the famous phrase, the three dictionaries: "Together we ate them", meaning, of course, man honestly had transformed Greece into the former regime - because a regime was that - in customers and noodles. Of course, these people have finally lifted their heads. And when we go and talk to farmers and rural women, when we go and talk to mayors, they talk about the problem, the real problem, how to get Greece out of this nightmare. When Greece comes out of this nightmare of a "petchy" economy, a virtual economy that you had become, then, yes, it could raise the head to Symble and say "no". I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the You know, Odysseus very traveled around - around and very painful and many times sailed, but arrived in Ithaca. You have no "Ithaca" for vision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Theocharis Theocharis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. I can hear the Minister having only one argument left. In fact this is the lack of vision ahead, that, yes, it is a mess today, the country is crumbling, but what to do, they have been doing the same for for forty years. Indeed, this is all your ambition to do the same forty years as in your own governance. Ladies and gentlemen, what does the government want to achieve with the 2017 budget? Three objectives are set by Mr Tsakalotos in his letter of deposit. First objective: to safeguard budgetary stability. This is not done with your taxes. If you pay back the due date, you'll only get it for a few months. Second objective: fair sharing of adjustment costs and the benefit of recovery. No justice in any of the three hundred sixty pages of your budget! Where's justice for the freelance professionals? To increase their contributions to 38%? Where's justice for the tide workers? To be summoned to pay 27% on their own? Where is justice for private workers? In the constant wage cuts, while their wage costs are increasing in the public sector by 320,000,000? Where's justice for the taxpayers? In overtaxation while seeing the TECH wages increase by 16% in your 2017 budget? Where is justice for farmers? The EUR 188,000 incremental contributions of eighteen months, which will be paid in one year and the new increase in the excise duty on fuel? Where's justice for the Greek producer? The EUR 62,000,000 in charges for micro-breeding to leave all production and the market to the large groups? Where's justice for the young? In that 27% of primary schoolchildren face the risk of poverty? Where's justice for the unemployed? That 45% of them live below the poverty line? Where is justice for small and medium-sized enterprises and the average Greek household? In order to pay further VAT increases of 437,000,000 and other fuel increases of 422,000,000 and other direct taxes of 1,1 billion? Where is justice for young scientists in the country who live in a country with more than a million unemployed and are forced to leave our country to see a advance? Third objective: Conservation of high growth rates. What kind of criticism can anyone make in this regard? The country needs 6% growth for the next ten years to return to normality, and you're talking about a 2.7% non-reserved, while if you were honest, you should put 2%. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister committed seven things: To close the evaluation soon. Lie! Let's go for January and see! Avoid working. Lie! You agreed to a 30% or more limit on the collective redundancies of large businesses. To go to 2.5% surplus in 2019 and 2% in 2020. Lie! We stay at 3.5% until further notice, until 2025 or 2030.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u39	Where do you get that information from?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u40	Read Eurogroup's decisions and Mr Düsselblum's interview.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u41	The IMF's 10% asking, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u42	You're not fooling the Greek people anymore! It's over! Expand the exemptions to alleviate the economically weak. Lie! Remove exemptions. To complete the Greek soon. Obligations of the Prime Minister. Lie! You transferred it for December 2017 to this budget, namely, the Minutes for 2018. Set up an irresponsible card account. Lie! Freeze the debts until 31-12-2016 to the OAU. Lie! Let's get out of the Memorandum. Lie! You extended your measures forever and you didn't get any money. He revealed to the European Parliament yesterday that the 4.2 billion measures you were telling us are 4.5 billion. Only abroad are you now telling the truth! Your budget uncovers the lies of Prime Minister Tsipras. Ladies and gentlemen, your budget does not, not necessarily, come out of the figures, someone will not come out, for someone will make fun of you, such as unemployment, with the thirty-five thousand young stassiers you have created, or by removing projects from the NSRF, instead of completing them to make fun of them, to make fun of you having absorptions. It does not come out because it does not bring prosperity to the Greek people. It doesn't come out because it's based on controversial reforms. It does not come out because children up to 17 years of age face the risk of poverty, because you have increased every indicator of poverty and social exclusion. It doesn't come out because you're stumbling in Qatar's investment, so today we're talking about Greek companies not being paid. It does not come out because you cancelled investments such as 'SOCAR' in the CRS. You canceled investments in waterplanes under Mr Spirtzi's law on one night, because you do not implement the agreed resolution plans, such as the NSAs and lead them to depreciation, because no investor believes you and will not believe you. It does not come out because the recipe of the memorandum is wrong, because both Europe and the IMF choose the easy solutions, they choose what they can control more easily and safer: cuts and austerity, instead of persistent and painful changes, superficial reforms that destabilise the country's productive tissue. The country, however, needs to be built from the outset in the public, built from the outset in the social state, built from the outset in the economy. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you have compromised with domestic interests and lenders and you are destroying the country. But love for the chair and appointments of friends and relatives do not allow you to leave and run elections. The outsiders see it and need more and more measures. They see you say to Mr Tsakaloto, 'Get a deal at all costs'. However, the country needs a national reconstruction plan, it needs a reorganisation of the public on a zero basis, with e-government at the centre of the changes, with a special group 'Produce in Greece' to solve the problems of companies that are already in the country and want to export or substitute imports, with special depreciation for investments, but also for wage costs to support investment and workers, with a direct solution to business red loans through a bad bank, to return the banks to their role, at a turn of any surpluses in public investment, with rationalisation of supplies and expenditure, with a national anti-corruption plan.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u43	Time's up, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u44	I shall conclude, Mr President. You're not capable of any of this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u45	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u46	Mr. Tsakalotos went to the Eurogroup with a bag full of sacrifices and bleeding from the Greek people and returned with an empty backpack. You celebrate, ladies and gentlemen of the government, for what will happen in 2060, you who called your political opponents "merkelists" and "German gypsies". Can you bring back the young people who left? Oh, no. Can you create jobs? Oh, no. Can you make the country progress? Oh, no. We won't see the way out of the crisis while you're ruling. But be careful not to live a national, economic or social disaster. It's the only service you can give for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-one students and two schoolmates from the 5th Gymnasium of Peristeri (Second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Pratsol has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to the previous speaker calling a lie many of what has been said in the negotiation process, and I must say to him that it is a great lie which he has said or, if it is not a lie, it is a signal to the lenders to perhaps negotiate with what is heard in the Greek Parliament. And that should worry us, because I really read all the announcements about the Eurogroup agreement, I did not see them. It's some kind of claustrophobic lust of counterpopulation about the course of the negotiation. I'm so sorry! The main element of the 2017 budget, which, unfortunately, the New Democracy - and in total, I would say, the Opposition - is unable to see or worse, is trying in every way to undermine it. It is characteristic that the President of the New Democracy is placed in the parliamentary group, who has clearly appeared willing to do all that the lenders criticise. Let me remind the House that it has been written with the extremes of the lenders for work, to the point of characterizing the restoration of collective agreements, and at the same time it appeared as a custodian of business contracts. This neoliberal cresent by Mr Mitsotakis is still being disproved by the Eurogroup, which has discussed best practice at European level and, of course, on the basis of the acquis communautaire. As if this were not enough, we amazedly heard him congratulate the Greek businessmen for their extroversion, but also for having escaped from the narrow limits of Greece, that is, simply greek congratulating them because they do not want to pay taxes in Greece and prefer to invest in Balkan countries, Bulgaria, Serbia, Skopje, etc.. If this is not called the undermining of the national effort to get out of the crisis, how else can it be said? And unfortunately for arguments, you are once again resorting to the same repetitions of lost negotiations, election requests, which tires and becomes boring and will become even more boring when it sounds until 2019. That reminds me of the wolf's legend of sheep. Of course, we have not heard the positions of the New Democracy, nor will we hear them, because every time you try to do so, ladies and gentlemen, the truth is more revealed, which is no more than redundancies and reductions in operating expenditure on health and education. It is characteristic that Mr Augias' statement on a 1.5 million reduction in the cost of redundancies is made. Ladies and gentlemen, some colleagues in the opposition committee in the committee responsible for debt seek to magically relieve themselves of their responsibilities and create the image of another reality that we have experienced and experienced. In addition to virtual, then, there is the irreversible reality of the figures that says that in the 1980s the debt took off as a percentage of GDP. From 2003 to 2010 it escalated and given that GDP has remained stable, the debt has increased as a percentage and has increased so that the country is out of markets. We should add here that, with the entry of the country into EMU, the debt increased every year less than GDP was rising. How much did the PSA really benefit the country when there was no significant reduction in real numbers, but instead it caused many problems in private bondholders and insurance funds? In the 2010-2014 rescue period, there was the largest increase in the Greek public debt. It was out of control, over EUR 299.69 billion, i.e. 129.7% of GDP at 317.94, i.e. 177,1% of GDP. Today, however, the coordinated efforts of our government to deal with the debt issue are beginning to bear fruit. Given the circumstances and the disharmony in the design of creditors' requirements, the essential solution is apparent after what was decided in the last Eurogroup with its short-term impairment measures. We are also listening to the New Democracy today to criticise us for the high surpluses, 3.5% for 2018 and then, which is indeed high. That is why we negotiate very hard to reduce. But which New Democracy was the one that had accepted the surpluses of 4.5% by 2018 and so on.Huh? Is that the one you're trying completely populistly to hide? And how many real measures will be taken to achieve them when you consider them to be tough measures to achieve the targets of 0.5 and 1.75 and 3.5%? Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I would like to go to the budget. The position of SYRIZA - ANEL is given through the budget that the Greek economy will record for the first time, after eight years, positive growth rates and even the order of 2.7%. It is also the primary surplus estimated to be 2% instead of 1.75% that was the target by reducing a major increase compared to 1.09% of GDP forecast for 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's main priority, in addition to its budgetary responsibility, remains the restoration of social justice and the recovery from the long-term recession. In short, I mention a number of interventions which are included in the budget: The appropriations for the social income of solidarity amount to EUR 760 million, three times the previous years, of which over two hundred and fifty thousand families will be covered. Health, social protection and education are strengthened by EUR 300 million, available on a case-by-case basis to meet the needs that go beyond existing appropriations. With regard to the first degree of local government, where I have been serving several years, I should like to refer to the following: with regard to institutional and administrative issues, a committee was set up to revise the institutional framework of local government. The institutional framework for the coordinator of decentralised administration has been completed, while, after the establishment of the IAS, we have proceeded and we have soon completed the procedures for the election of the coordinators of decentralised administrations. Up to then, the fully frozen recruitment of permanent staff of the OHP and PHP to the reward services of the OTA were liberated. The ATTs and their persons were given the opportunity to extend to fulltime the employment contracts of employees with an indefinite employment relationship with a reduced period of employment so that the institutions would meet their needs without recourse to temporary staff and workers would have a decent income rather than a pocket. We have ensured a significant involvement of the EBRD with EUR 326 million in the maturity repayment programme which is under way and many other important issues that, due to a lack of time, I will not list. Despite the difficult financial period we have spent and spent the last two years, we have not reduced grants for local government. The reduction in funding from the ordinary budget totals EUR 220 million and is due solely to the repayment of the last instalment of the withheld, in accordance with Article 27 of Law 3756/2009, of EUR 214 million. Of course we must remember that in the years 2011-2014 the CAP was reduced by about 65%. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to see reality with open eyes and reality says in 2010 our unarmed economic country entered the adventure of monuments and cruel austerity. It was, of course, irresponsible to some who have a name and identity, and they have been the ones who have ruled us for so many years. Today, what we are trying to do is step by step, step by step, get the country's walk and get out of the comitology and the memoranda. One step is the 2017 budget that we are debating today, which together with the short-term debt reduction measures of 22%, medium-term measures that will enter the table from mid-2018, and the closure of the second assessment will create the necessary path to exit the crisis with society upright. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u49	Thank you. And since you mentioned the EUR 214 million, because this bears the signature of my own as president of the CEDEFOP, they are two dozens, which are missing in 2017.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u50	That's right. We were together at the CEDEFOP together.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u51	You did well to raise it. I hope the State Secretary for Finance has heard that. It means two months of wages because that money went to wages. They weren't going to other things and let's keep it in mind from now on. Mr Giannakis has the floor now. In order for colleagues to be in the Chamber, Mr Mumulides, Mr Lagos, Mr Seltsas, Mr Stylis and Mr Manios will follow. Here, Mr. Giannakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the second budget of the State of the second time in a climate of discomfort and anger with a society exhausted and with all the social classes in the bars. There is discomfort and anger in the world and you collect it because you have cultivated great expectations and it is a post that the greatest frustrations are born after the greatest expectations. We are discussing the 2017 budget under the weight of the 2016 statement that we all know what happened. The Union industry's sales volume and market share developed over the period considered as follows: (i) the Union From development and exports, due date and retail sale to income and insurance funds. The government is trying optimisticly to convince the audience's election campaign, basically, that the material measures and the worst are behind us and that normality and growth are finally coming, exactly what they said last year. He submitted an over-population budget, knowing in advance that his objectives will not be achieved. It is a strong European and tax budget. All converging in the finding that 2017 will be the same and worse than 2016. Is it possible, ladies and gentlemen, to have climate change and development with a society broken up? Is it possible to withdraw to the categorisation by capital control, in other words with closed banks, when one and a half million bank accounts of taxpayers are in the confiscation scheme, when of the 6 million taxpayers have been due, when red loans amounted to 108 billion and the outstanding debts to the State of 120 billion, when only in October, which was the worst October of the last fifteen years, the jobs lost were more than 83 000 of those created? The two-year term SYRIZA - ANEL proved to be toxic to the Greek economy for this reason and so quickly they have lost the trust of the economically active population. Colleagues, this budget does not come up with anything. And it does not come out because it has extra taxes for 2017 2.6 billion, i.e. a new ENPIA, which should pay a society that cannot pay taxes last year and last year. The market is in steadfast bankruptcy, the productive forces in winter mines and investors have a safety distance from any investment in Greece. I cannot agree with the government's optimism, bearing in mind what has happened with Skouria, Afantou in Rhodes, the fate of TRAINOSE, which, according to Samaras, you did not like the 300 million and you sold it for 45 million. The story is now repeated with the DESAFA, the Aziros and the Italians, which of the 400 million you would receive, now 66% of the IPSA will be valued around 280 million. And that is the situation, when everyone thinks that in order for us to be able to stand, investment of 100 billion over the next five years is needed. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget does not come out because it promises to reduce unemployment when adopting the underpaid wage and our young people are looking for any way out only abroad. You are constantly talking about the social project of the budget and your social sensitivity. Apart from direct taxes, you also increase all indirect taxes, which you used to say are the most unfair taxes. So I ask you: will the rich pay the 437 million from the VAT increase? The rich will pay the EUR 422 million above from the increase in energy products, such as oil and gasoline? Will the rich pay the above 89 million from the increase in pay-TV and mobile telephony charges? Will industrialists pay EUR 62 million more because of the increased taxes on beer? Shipowners pay over EUR 142 million due to an increase in cigarette tax? Your alleged social sensitivity has long been extinct along with your alleged moral advantage. That's the raw truth. You have confessed to all the tones that you had fraudulents in the past, it seems you still have them. You forget, however, that reality is a persistent delusion and will always be in front of you. You just crawl without vision, without goals, without policy tools, so without tomorrow. Administer to lionisms, communal terrain. You create an atmosphere of dramatic anguish. Rest assured and present yourself as persuasive and relentless of the upcoming media here for internal consumption. And then go hungry and sign it all, carrying additional and harder measures each time, as happened with the first assessment that its delay did not only bring us additional tax measures, but also the famous "cutter" and especially the embarrassing superstition, in which you smacked the entire public property for a century. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, with a saying by Sartre: 'If we cannot use our eyes to see each other, then we will need them to cry.' This has been happening in our country in recent years. It is clear that we cannot vote for such a budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr Giannakis, for keeping time. My colleague, Mr Themistollis Mumulides, has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I should first of all like to say that I am aroused by the communication policy of the New Democracy. In view of the work done here on the first day, I think, if I am not mistaken, that there is no spokesman of the New Democracy who has not mentioned what has often been answered, that is, the non-sales of the CCCTB. That is, I think, a good lesson for how communication policy is conducted: obsessed. So we are continuing today in plenary the debate on the 2017 budget. This is a central budget for the future of the Greek economy, since each budget records the political choices of the respective government. At the same time, however, we are discussing the budget for a very important year, a very important year. In 2017, it is known that the leaderships of large European countries are being called upon to face important elections, but also challenges in a dubious European landscape, especially after the Brexit, but also the recent outcome of the Italian referendum, which, according to the spirit of most international political reactions, creates 'a chaos, instability, uncertainty, a glance of populism, a danger for Europe'. So the question arises: will something change in European policy, which is desirable, which is what we are fighting as a government and as a political body? And if not, the question arises again: where is this Europe going? Therefore, the 2017 budget is placed in an environment full of international and internal challenges, which is a step towards the country's exit from the restrictions imposed, as well as towards strengthening the social state and the rule of law. It remains a fundamental priority of this budget to strengthen social protection, but also to stimulate public investment. The optimistic macroeconomic figures resulting from the decisions of the Eurogroup and of Monday are not inconsistent with us, as it is true that short-term debt measures are the good part of the Eurogroup's agreement last Monday, but are not enough, namely the reduction and stabilisation of floating interest rates to 1.5%, which is questioned by many, which leads to a debt reduction of EUR 45 000. Here we have to repeat and point out the government's unequivocal position, because that and communication must be done. The government has said to every ton that it does not intend, will not sign new measures, what they are asking for. Nevertheless, we hear and read in here every day, but also in public that it is almost certain - or with certainty - that for the next ten years after 2018 we will have a request for a surplus of 3.5%. Therefore, the European Union and the IMF must stop insisting on the continuation of the extreme political austerity, which is socially destructive and economically ineffective. I will invoke the previous edition of the German 'ZIDEUTSCHE ZEITUNG', where it states that the prospects of the Greek economy have improved at the annual rate of growth to 1.8 in the third quarter of 2016, surpassing both Germany and the euro area as a whole, as well as that deposits are returned to the banks in recent months. So we see communications in the international press, in international societies, having positive samples, recognizing the efforts of the Greek Government and our problem being created mainly internally. I am amazed to watch the agony and effort of Officerial Response, as well as of other opposition parties, ending with SYRIZA's stay in the rule of the country, because he understands that if the country and Europe are successful in the year of 2017, the New Democracy will have no reason to exist, as the New Democracy is a party of power, but only has a role of a healthy opposition political force, which will have a lot to learn from its mistakes. I would like us all to wonder how pleasant it is to see the failure scenarios of the government's effort, which are created by Officer Opposition, which almost provoke failure in a climate of celebration. But the Qualified Opposition is unfair to society, considering it has a goldfish memory. In political braveness it would be to oppose not necessarily apologies, but by trying with our proposals to help get the country out of the crisis. For the Civic Opposition, however, everything is communication. We are witnessing a performance, which has been called "Truths and lies". It is the permanent pattern, which must gradually begin to understand the Greek people, because the New Democracy, but also other anti-population parties, did not come from virginity, but have history, they have recorded a significant course in Greek political life, they have shaped a climate for which the current government and much more the SYRIZA party cannot be apologised. A debate on the budget is always of special interest, provided the debate is held in the public interest area. He never answered what happened with the forgotten PSA, how 120 billion undermined the future of a country, a country whose people were charged through your policies to save banks, mortgage on his future. The oblivion of those politicians on the part of Officerial Response leads to a distortion of the truth. As time ends, I will stay in the budget for the Ministry of Culture in a few words. Let me remind you that the Ministry of Culture was a glorious ministry in the past, where the previous governments used generally as a place of displaying names. The leaders of three parties passed just before the presidential court took over from the Ministry of Culture. However, despite the commitment of the Ministry, often by super-protected party officials, the Ministry of Culture remained a mere management ministry, sponsoring various events, celebrations, party customers, a public relations area. In relation to the Ministry of Culture there is a small, typical increase. But that's enough to lead us to a year of optimism. 2017 can be a year to draw up another national cultural policy. At the same time, we have an important opportunity to see culture as a parallel pillar of economic growth, as the utilization of the tools offered to us by culture can also lead to the creation of new jobs. I'm closing up so that I don't misuse time, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget that we are debating is a tool that leads to the restoration of time-consuming injustices. At the same time, the European framework of operation we have chosen requires its own reality. Therefore, given the effort that for the first time it makes Greek government towards creditors, we invite you to vote on the budget not of a government but of a people. A country that now hopes for the consensus, cohesion and agonism of its society. It is optimistic and comforting that today it is acting on a large part of Greek society and participates in the demonstrations. We welcome it and think that the movement processes in Greek society should not stop. For these reasons, gentlemen, we invite you to vote in favour of the budget and to stop playing, building your future on the fear of a strong, optimistic and unpredictable people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Rabbit and Mr. Selchas will still be speaking. Then Mrs Papanatsiou, the State Secretary, will speak. We will continue with Mr. Stylion, Mr. Manios, Mr. Kegeroglu. Come on, Mr. Rabbit. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Some time ago we heard a SYRIZA-ANEL Minister of State. It's Mr. Chironis, although it doesn't matter what his name is. But what Mr. Chironis, what anyone else. They say the same thing as the nerve that holds them. He went out here, went up to the Step of the House today, which we vote on the new budget - new measures, new taxes for Greek citizens - and he said with enthusiasm and in a sense: "What are you talking about in New Democracy and PASOK. To discuss what memorandum was the worst." That's what's going on with the collapsing right now. To discuss, he says, what is the worst memorial. Everything, Minister, is bad memos, everything is extremely damaging for our country and for our fellow citizens and all of you have voted together. So where do you separate your position now? To do good at the expense of others. In other words, the third memorandum you voted on was better than the first. That's what you're asking. Either the first or the second or the third is destructive for our country. Unfortunately, there are more to follow. This, I repeat, is the nerve of the left, which has been squeezing a chair forty-five years, they've been up, hooked, and they're not planning to leave with anything. What if the world beats them, what if no one wants them, what if their electoral force has fallen to 50%, at least half, and falls constantly and daily? They don't see anything else. Married on a chair how they're gonna stay. And underneath an Opposition to give up because they don't sell our country very well, but they ask them to sell it better. A New Democracy that protests and says: "Here you go. The measures you're voting on, we brought them together and it was much better. Let us do it." A sale contest, then. Who sells out better? But do you know what people say outside? That both the left and the right are sold home, unfortunately. And we will try, we will do everything we can as Golden Dawn and, since of course the Greek people want it, we will not let the crescendo continue what you have. You don't have the boldness and courage to say that someone has made a mistake. One tells us that the third memorial is right, one tells us better the second one, one tells us better the third one, and all of us continue this little one. You're such liars and hypocrites.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u57	Is this the behavior of a Greek congressman?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u58	It's the behavior of a Greek citizen. I am a Greek citizen above all. I happened to be a congressman.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u59	We've known your behavior since '43.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u60	I will represent the Greek citizen of the areas I live in. I won't sit here with my eyes closed to make bills for bankers. That's what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u61	Don't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u62	You can't swear on us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u63	I'm not addressing you. I address the Greek people. Find out who SYRIZA is and understand well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u64	Don't answer colleagues. Continue your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u65	Whoever interrupts me will get the answer he deserves. And we'll move on later. Like the Minister, Mr. Kontonis, who told us last time that the Cyprus file was opened and laughed at the cement. When I told him to go show it to me, of course, he was looking at the stars. That's the way you are. Liars, hypocrites. We'll keep saying it. You're lying! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] In fact, let's see that you're very hypocritical today, there's strikes, labor drives and SYRIZA goes out and calls on the workers to go out and protest about the laws that SYRIZA is voting for! What the fuck are you bitches? How ridiculous can you be? You'll tell me what we're talking about. That's who you are. You're handwriting, you're enslaved by foreign loan sharks, and you do what you're told.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u66	Mr. Rabbit...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u67	So since this is the case, if you call the world, that SYRIZA MPs go out now, go to strike mobilisations, go with the world, see how they will welcome you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u68	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u69	You're offended!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u70	Lower the tone!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u71	We'll call the Guardian?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u72	Lower the tone! Say what you want with a lower tone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u73	I'm talking to the tone I've learned in the regions of Piraeus when the indignant world speaks. That's how I've learned.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u74	When I'm in the Bureau, lower tone, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u75	The Greek people put me in to tell his problems. He didn't make me make public relations with you here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u76	If you yell, you don't defend them better. Say what you want, but in a quieter way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u77	So we saw a referendum in Italy a few days ago, and the Prime Minister there, in which there are votes of honorable and dignity, said 'if I lose, I will resign', he lost and resigned. What were you doing here? You democrats, the leftists asked for a referendum last year, made the "no" "yes" of the Greek people, brought it in and continue to say that you represent the Greek people. What are you talking about? What we've seen from you has not been seen in the worst banana, gentlemen of SYRIZA. And you're talking about democracy! So we have heard the Foreign Affairs Minister, Mr Muzala, telling us - yesterday I think - that money will be given to the municipalities facing problems with illegal immigration. People face huge problems. At first, he went to scare them. He told them that any Greek citizens who react there are Chrysayites, they are fascists, they are extremists. He saw this wasn't working. He saw that people prefer to be called fascist and extreme - if you like - than a sucker and sit and eat slap from every Pakistani and every Bangdecian who's been inside his house and chasing him and stealing him. And when he saw that he reacted, he did another policy, "let's give them some pocket money anywhere, get a few little programs with four hundred, shut them up a little bit, don't talk." This is the attitude you have toward the world. That's her! But people understand you, they've changed their minds too much. We see this on a daily basis in the Aegean islands and wherever the illegal immigration problem arises, which you have done enormously. And to see that you're a government that doesn't know where it is and where it is, I'm going to read you information from an evaluation of European officials, which says that thirteen thousand illegal immigrants in the centers we've lost. I think this assessment is yesterday or yesterday. Thirteen thousand people have been lost, illegal immigrants! You don't know where he is! They tell you in front of you, in the face, and you sit down and say there's nothing wrong. Thirteen thousand, of whom too many can - no can, surely - be dangerous, be evil and you don't know where they are. And then you tell us that you're counting and that's sixty thousand. I'm telling you - because we've also asked questions on Golden Dawn - that you don't know where the four go. You don't know how many people are in illegal immigration centres. We repeat this. We have exposed you many times to parliamentary scrutiny, and that is why you are not answering us, because we are presenting you to the eyes of the Greek people every day. And they're thirteen thousand who've gone missing! They may steal, rape, kill anywhere in Greece. You gave them before and you'll go and soon give them their papers, so they can have political asylum. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] To conclude, Mr President, I would like to mention yesterday's report from the Financial Stability Fund, which tells us that in the first half of 2016 the damage to systemic banks amount to 1 billion euros and something fine, 52 million euros more, i.e. 1.052 million euros. These will be your institutions again by the laws you bring 12 at night with some amendments and you will give them back to the bankers. That is why you will vote again for a new memorandum that will come, to get the money and make them recapitalise bankers, who are stealing and taking the homes of every Greek taxpayer, who does not have to pay his instalment. He doesn't do it because he's a cop or he wants to steal, but he doesn't have the man to pay and take his homes. And you pass bills to give them their damage. Hold it, please, for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Lagos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] These are the Greek governments that are currently in Parliament. And to finish, I would like to tell you that we're tired of legislating in favor of big-time workers and big-time bankers. We're sick of seeing you here and talking to you and not having what to do. We're tired of telling you how much you've done harm to the Greek people. But we are not fed up with being here, undoing you and defending the Greek citizen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u78	Mr Constantine Selcas has the floor. It's followed by the Undersecretary. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the budget is one of the top moments in the parliamentary work. It sets out the government's overall policy on the subject of criticism by the opposition. To the extent that this is done with evidence, the people who are following us useful conclusions on the political differences in the parties can also come out. Unfortunately, however, in the current debate, it has not become a good start from Anti-Policy. Already since the debate in the committees, it worked at least hastyly in its criticism and was exposed by the lack of evidence in its arguments. It has thus proved that populism should not be hunted by Mr Mitsotakis elsewhere, but within his own party. There is, however, another discrepancy in the current budget debate in relation to how it should theoretically be carried out. And this is the monitoring of public finances by the International Monetary Fund and the European Union. This surveillance, which we all know now has come and with which responsibility parties it has settled in the country, leaves no government unaffected. Obviously neither the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, which I support. It is therefore a question of having a goal and a plan to get out of surveillance and, at the same time, of making use of any narrow margins there is to implement a social policy today. These two essential elements have been taken by the current government and are shown in the budget. In particular, budgetary targets for the surplus of 1.7% are clearly improved in relation to previous government agreements at 4.5%. This leaves some small breaths and is expected to leave some larger in the future. The state is trying to settle down. It was undermined by the outgoing government, which deliberately created liquidity suffocation, to serve the ‘left parenthesis’ scenario. There are still phenomena of party-time undermining in some ministries. But we hope that they will stay in the past and that the country will overcome it. With regard to the social aspect of the budget, with the pressing needs of the world being large, we will not be able to hear large numbers, only showing the sincere effort: Social Solidarity Fund for the whole country with 760 million euros in 250,000 households and strengthening the social budget for health, education, welfare with 300 million euros. We are still far away, but the shift towards tackling social problems has taken place. In order to be able to cope with the humanitarian crisis, however, it is not only enough money from the budget, but it also needs the wide involvement and active solidarity of the world. In the area I am active in, in Florina, civil society is active, builds up structures and offers the fellow person, such as social schools for pupils with financial problems, as well as structures for protecting and promoting the environment. The central administration has committed itself to supporting these actions. For me this close cooperation between the state and civil society is the guide to overcome this crisis without losing social cohesion. The issue of decentralisation and regional support is another important pillar of the strategy to overcome the crisis. In the region of Western Macedonia we have after the deindustrialisation of recent years of high unemployment, especially young people. What we need are actions that will create employment with a sustainable perspective. So the areas in which they will be developed must be where there is a comparative advantage. One of these areas is rural. The new Rural Development Programme is a tool that allows us to optimise. We are talking quantitatively about funding EUR 1.5 billion for 2017 and EUR 6 billion over five years. However, from a qualitative point of view, there is provision for smart-skilled strategies, the granting of powers to the regions and the new framework for the operation of cooperatives. These are the elements that can lead to a better fate for the rural world and to get rid of money-sharing phenomena that we have seen in the past. Already the absorption of funds was higher than in previous years and the fines for the first time were zero. It is therefore important, in addition to the allocation of funds and the proper planning of these programmes, and the operation of the administration throughout the year. In particular, for our region, the reafforestations and irrigation which are essential to support the productive activity of the rural world are at last pending. Another neural sector for the economy, which in addition also affects employment in our regions, is the energy sector. In an area such as Florina, where winter is heavy, district heating projects are a modern and efficient energy-efficient solution to the problem by households and also by businesses in the region. The development of a plan for the continuation of Amyntium and Philotas televignettes and the start of Melitis district heating should be a priority in terms of PPC and Ministry. After all, we have been talking about energy-saving areas for at least sixty years, and the recompense with district heating projects has been required. The inhabitants of our region can legitimately optimise the above-mentioned issues. The administrations of PPC and the Ministry showed positive examples of writing on the new A.M.Melitis II. I think they will do so too. Meliti II is one of the cases where private investment activity is ensured and will solve problems of the past. He won't just come to take advantage of state property. The new project will take advantage of the Venice and Key Mines which have been inactive for 15 years. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Finally, I should like to stress here the importance of the vertical axis of Florina - Ptolemais, which joins the area with Ennaia and will complement the northern part that was recently inaugurated. Infrastructure projects have been left behind in our region and it is extremely necessary for an instant region to have a modern and fast connection with the rest of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not the budget that I dreamed of voting when I received the honour of representing my fellow citizens two years ago. It is, however, the best thing that a government that has proved to be fighting for the interests of the majority of the Greek people, and that is why I shall vote for it. With interests in and outside the country, our work is not easy. We have the will to stand by our weakest fellow citizen. It takes seriousness, patience and perseverance to be able to radically change the country's course for the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u80	The Foreign Minister, Mrs Papanatsiou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u81	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the 2017 budget is the second budget planned and implemented by this government and has a specific political and social figure. The benefits of the rapid development of the bubble period spread unevenly, mainly favouring the strongest and most prosperous layers of society. Even worse, during the acute crisis that followed, the weakest were disproportionately affected in relation to the strongest and most wealthy. The most vulnerable strata in our society not only saw their incomes declined rapidly, but were led to poverty and other strata retained their pre-crisis achievements to a greater extent. That's not what happened at all. It was targeted by the policies that local and foreign elites have chosen to impose in the country. The collapse of our country's GDP by almost 30% in the period 2009-2014 was totally unequal to the detriment of the weak. That is why the target of the 2017 budget, like the previous one, is to protect these layers by applying redistribution of resources towards a socially fairer direction. So when the Association of Greek Industrialists in Congratulation with Acoustic Opposition blames us that this budget and, in particular, the portion of the revenues, reflects the largest redistribution of incomes that has ever been committed in a year, we in our view, only as credit we can understand it. The budgets of the PASOK and the New Democracy, like all their policies, caused reversal of distribution. They were taken from the poor and gave to the rich systematically and for decades. Despite the great categories of industrialists and Officers, we know that the redistribution that can be made through tax policy is limited. We use this tool as best, but its strength is always relatively limited. The direction of tax policy is therefore defensive. It is to protect the lowest incomes, given the obligation to catch a specific target for a primary surplus of 1.75%. In previous years, the other governments have dropped most of the burden of budgetary adjustment on the expenditure side. This meant huge reductions in private and public pensions and public wages, but also huge cuts in social spending and health and education expenditure. There is no longer any room for reductions in expenditure. We estimate that this year we will be able to identify expenditures of up to EUR 1.2 billion the maximum that do not belong to the above categories. I will not call them waste, but simply expenditure that can be gradually reduced without causing great damage to the functioning of the state. The fact that this is the maximum amount of expenditure that she unnecessarily characterises as waste is also aware of. And when he promises tax reductions at a cost of EUR 4.1 billion, without reductions in wages, pensions or social costs, he lies, in fact, shamelessly. It intends to reduce pensions and basic social structures in the state which will not allow it to perform its social role. It will also send other citizens to poverty in order to reduce taxes to specific favoured classes. This is the purpose of the account of overtaxation, which is systematically cultivated by the Civic Opposition with the industrial link. And to understand, in 2012, the New Democracy and PASOK rule separated wages and pensions and free professionals. The latter abolished duty-free, increased the lower rate and reduced the highest. As a result, the low-income free professions, including quasi-wage employees - the blocks, i.e. - were significantly and unfairly burdened. On the contrary, taxes on those who said more than EUR 70,000 and EUR 80,000 have been reduced by up to ten percentage points. With our change in income tax, free professionals with an income of up to 30,000 euros will pay less tax on incomes in 2016 than they paid with the previous system. This is about 90% of the total. This is the tax attack that the New Democracy speaks about, on behalf of the favoured 10% of previous years, but it does not dare to say it directly. She prefers to blur the waters. The same is true of main-professional farmers. With the tax change that the lenders have asked for, we have succeeded in ensuring that the tax will apply to them, as will the people who are employed and retired. This means that for 80%, perhaps 90% of the farmers' professions, this year's tax will be zero. And the tax advance they paid last year will be returned. However, there is no doubt that the rates of taxation in both direct and indirect taxes are higher than those which should be the same as those which we would like to see. However, if one reads the figures of the last two or three decades and compares public spending and tax revenues as a percentage of GDP, one will find that the wide divergence, in relation to the countries of western Europe, is not in the first part, but in the second part. In other words, public spending is not much higher than the European average. In fact, some years they've been under him. On the contrary, tax revenues were five to ten percentage points lower than the rest of Europe, despite the high tax rates. Multiplier this difference for twenty and thirty years and you will understand how the public debt was created. This great gap comes mainly from tax evasion of all kinds and smuggling, from favor to specific social classes and families. For this reason, the aim of our Government since the first day has been to combat tax evasion effectively. On the other hand, political will was not based on tax evasion, smuggling and corruption during the current crisis. We have two bills ready that will be submitted directly to the House. We expect it to generate additional revenue from tax evasion and which we have not taken into account in budgetary revenue. The first is the bill on electronic payments. The main philosophy is to provide strong incentives for citizens for the adoption of electronic payments, combined with the necessary arrangements for the compliance of businesses and free traders. Similarly, the draft law on disclosure of undeclared funds will be the last chance for those who have concealed incomes to show them. It will put an end to the trafficking of black money, thereby enabling the state to increase its revenue. There are other bills that plan to close every hole in black money. We chased tax evasion and smuggling. We have established taxes and fines above EUR 210 million only from the Lagard list. We signed all the ministerial decisions against the smuggling that today's Opposition had forgotten so many years in drawers when it ruled and pretended to fight illegality. We got the first scanner to locate smuggling. We intend to acquire another four soon, later on to twelve. EUR 2,44 billion surplus on the budget target for the ninth month of 2016 shows that the measures we have already taken against tax evasion and smuggling are in the right direction. This will pave the way for lowering taxes on those who do not hide their incomes. A basic proposal by the Government in the debate on the balance of the two arms of budgetary policy, expenditure and taxes is to reduce the objectives of the primary surpluses only to strengthen competitiveness, by reducing taxation and the contributions of small and medium-sized enterprises. In other words, our proposal to negotiate with creditors is the budgetary surplus from tackling tax evasion and smuggling to be used for social purposes and reducing surpluses for development. It will immediately fall into the economy of 1,8 billion euros and by the end of the first half of 2017, another EUR 1.7 billion for the payment of the government's dues. These are debts that we inherited from the coup d'état of New Democracy - PASOK. These amounts are new money that will go into the economy and give growth impetus. This, as well as the increase in domestic demand, as well as investment, support our estimate of GDP growth by 2.7% in 2017, a forecast shared by both institutions and other international organisations. We believe that we are now at a great turn in the economy. We are coming out of the recession and along with the completion of the assessment and, finally, the debt settlement, we will be able to talk about a total reversal of the climate in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u82	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u83	What do you want, Mr. Loverdo?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u84	I'd like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u85	For what?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u86	You're fair, I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u87	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u88	...and observe the Rules of Procedure. What I'm going to say is it's not personal, but I'm asking for a personal reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u89	Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, it is insulting that a Member of the House who has been a minister to hear from a Member of Parliament and Minister that there have been possibilities of restricting illegality and not being exploited. It offends us too much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u91	That's political.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u92	I'll tell you right away. Since we are offended, however, I will tell you this: Yesterday Mr Tsakalotos was here from your ministry. When Mr Constantinople told you about the logic of the new Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Games, which supervises your Ministry, according to which every corner in Greece would also have a small casino, you did not say a word. Neither did the Minister speak in response yesterday, nor did you today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u93	What's the staff, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u94	There's a corruption issue, Mr. President. This kind of regulation has been redeemed. It is not about the Ministry, the Minister, the Deputy or the State Secretary, but you have an obligation on an issue of corruption to inform Parliament, instead of calling us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u95	The ministers present have heard them and when the time comes to speak, they will choose whether or not to answer you and how.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u96	Mr President, will you give me the floor, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u97	Here, Minister, you have the floor to speak for a minute. After you were provoked, you have the right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u98	First of all, there's no such thing as gambling, Mr. Loverdo. As far as gambling is concerned, a bill will come to the House at some point, and then we'll see you, to see what's going on over there.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u99	That's all. Another thing is gambling.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u100	Don't interrupt now. The conversation has gone well. All colleagues will speak. Don't start now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u101	From there on, the previous issue was not personal to you. It was a matter of politics. That's really what it was. We received the'scanner' gift from the 'PASTRATO'. For twenty years he gave it away and no one received it. We dared and received it. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u102	Okay. However, for twenty years he has not, because I have asked four questions to many governments. That was not the case. When the old man presides, we need to know what we're talking about. I am talking about'scanner' and I know very well what I say from here. Let's keep going. Peace to you! Mr. George Stylos has the floor, then Mr. Nikolaos Manios and then Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou. Here, Mr. Style, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u103	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the budget is about the political parties which unfold their criticism, the plan and the way in which they see that the country should go in the next period. The question we are asked to answer today is whether we will proceed with bravery, with realism and truth, or whether we will return to the dreadful days of post-population populism. The dilemma, ladies and gentlemen, is this in front of or behind? Unfortunately, the government chooses to set back. He chooses to tax what he pays, produces and can get us out of the crisis, to stay in power only. That is their purpose and purpose. In simple terms, you kill the cow that gives the milk, that is, the income. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall refer to my speech in the agricultural sector of the economy and what is provided for in the draft budget which we are to decide tomorrow. I shall refer to tax, insurance and farmers, and I shall give an example. This year, farmers will be taxed on the basis of the wages and pensioners' scale, with rates starting from 22% to 45%, depending on everyone's income. The tax advance increases from 75% to 100%. For the first time, farm subsidies and subsidies for incomes above EUR 12 000 are taxed. With effect from 1 October 2016, the exemption from excise duty on agricultural oil has been abolished. At the same time, VAT on agricultural supplies is increasing to 24%, while farmers sell their products with 13% VAT. A higher tax rate of 36% will also be paid by those who receive income from renting the agricultural land. Farmers who will declare annual incomes greater than EUR 12 000 will also be subject to a new reformed Special Solidarity Contribution, which will be calculated by coefficients ranging from 2% to 10%. A further tax was imposed on wine and beer. The final blow is to change the definition of a farmer. Seven hundred and fifty thousand of our fellow citizens are reporting agricultural incomes. With the definition that the government has brought in and voted for the farmer only a hundred and fifty thousand will be the main industrial farmers. So you said, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that it will be the farmer who at least 50% of his total income is from agricultural income. In simple terms, when someone in a village does a second profession - he has a meat shop, a café, anything else - and has an income of EUR 10,000, he has to have an income of 10 000 more from agricultural income to be an exclusive farmer, otherwise you make him a free trader and he will be taxed as a free trader. Let's see now and see what happens with the insurance contributions, compared with the farmer. In the budget you submitted, there is an increase in the income from the insurance contributions of farmers EUR 92 million for 2016, for the first and second half of 2017, and another EUR 95 million for 2017. So, in the two years 2016-2017, you expect additional revenue of EUR 188 million from farmers' insurance contributions. All of this is included in the No.4387/2016 that you voted on last spring. I want to speak specifically and say a few things, because a lot has been heard, in relation to the farmers' insurance contributions. You start on January 1, 2017 with insurance contributions of 19%, based on the turnover declared by the farmer, and move on 22%, 25% next year, 27%, so that from 2020 - and I speak of insurance contributions, along with health - and then any farmer who has zero income or does not say he has incomes, you will take him to the lowest scale, which means, with the law that you voted on, EUR 1.300 per year. In order to avoid questioning what I am saying by my colleagues, I submit to the Practical circular of Poll 1107/18-7-2016, which has been issued and signed by Secretary-General of Essex, Mr Pittsilis. And whoever wants to question it here is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u104	All that you're saying is questioning it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u105	I want to speak with evidence and numbers. If you want to question them, that's right. Mr President, I am interrupted. There is therefore a risk that more and more farmers will disappear from the agricultural profession. The Greek countryside is devastated. I heard the Minister for Agriculture and Food yesterday and today the Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food come here and tell us about billions and teach us a lesson. The Rural Development Programme, which did not have the bravery and courage to admit that it was negotiated and approved in 2014 by the previous government, includes a total of EUR 19 billion. The resources of this programme are EUR 5.5 billion. Two years you are running and not even a single invitation has come out of this programme, nor has an invitation to invest in the agricultural sector. From this step we heard the Minister say yesterday that the "farmer's card" was only introduced to tell us that the next time the photovoltaics and a series of other initiatives and actions will be removed. He presented us with an idyllic picture, but in which he does nothing. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute and a half. A few people talked about the agricultural sector. It's about a lot of people. It is also about the future of our country. Finally, I would like to give an example, as I promised you. We have a farmer who produces 100 tonnes of oranges in an area like Arta, Argolida, Laconia. 5% of them go for bridges, as guaranteed by the dealer. The remaining 20% should definitely go to juice. So, 25%'s leaving. The 20% that goes for juice is paid by 0.03 minutes a kilo. The remaining seventy-five tons, they're paid, if we take out the cost of cutting, with a pound of 0,12 pounds. If you calculate them, for juices it receives about EUR 600 and from the rest of the money it receives a sum of EUR 8,500. So it makes us a sum of EUR 9,300. A farmer who produces 100 tonnes of oranges and will at best give them for export and will be able to sell them. Now let's go see what's left of this farmer. Expenditure shall be EUR 1,500. And I'm talking about a good crop that doesn't have much to costs. I'm not talking about olive, kiwi and other productions. If we remove these EUR 1,500 from the EUR 9,300, it will be around EUR 7,700, EUR 7,800. This year will be taxed with 20% and 26% per year. So, if we take off the tax, he's got about 6,300 euros left to live this year. And next year, he's got 5,800 left. But, in my example, ladies and gentlemen, I did not make the contributions...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u106	And that's what you're closing up with, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u107	I close, Mr President, by example. And I didn't put on the insurance contributions for the OGA, which, by the law you voted on, ranges from a minimum of EUR 1,300 and the scale goes up. So if we get the insurance contributions for ELGA, we'll go to 5,000 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u108	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u109	Calm down, please. Don't interrupt. Listen! I don't remember if you've spoken. If you don't have one, you'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u110	In addition, ladies and gentlemen, we have not calculated the insurance contributions for the ELGA, which are another EUR 750. It is therefore called on the Greek farmer to live with 5,000 euros, to feed his family, to study his children and to be able to meet his obligations. Ladies and gentlemen, this Greece does not go any further. This Greece is not the one that we envision and want. And very soon the Greek people will invite us to give the answer as well. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u111	I invite my colleague, Mr Nikolao Manios, to the Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this Greece that we received is the one you have built. If I dare say that the first days of postpopulation, in the first few years, were vicious, you should at least give in to me, at least the people who belong to the traditional right. You said it yourself. It was vicious. What I'm learning in the House now! It's what they say "know, old man, letter". I hear that if you have 27% unemployment and it goes to 23%, it's worse than the unemployment you had at 7% and it goes to 26% - 27%. That's what I heard today! It says it's the worst October of the fifteen years. Excuse me! What was unemployment - whatever the government was - 15 years ago? He was under 8% and he's reached 23%. Huge height! Is 8% worse than 23%? I've learned that 3.5% of the surplus is unbearable. That's 4,5% slight. This irrationality must be stopped. I have here a speech that has the numbers and the data. As far as the budget is concerned, we put it aside. Budget is an economic household, a tool for the country to go next year. Where will the country go next year? Will he only have any accounting problems? Does the country have any geopolitical problems? Does he have any problems with our partners in the euro area? Does he have any problems with Trump's new election to America? I can't hear a word! It's all honey milk! We are in a paradise world that does not exist Ukraine, which does not exist in Turkey with its problems, there is no Syria, there is no North Africa disaster, there is no immigration problem. There's 2% over and 2% down, which any reading and getting from what I've heard from the Opposition doesn't stick anywhere. For Christ's sake! GDP lost 25% and stopped losing. Is that bad? Which country did we receive? The country of successory. At the end of the term, the Government of Success Story was borrowed at 4,75% interest rate. We are at a time when the interest rates on loans will fall below 1.5% and we consider it a disaster! That's 4,75% of it. We think it's glamorous. Give us a push! We are now paying this 4,75%. No one erased it to us! But there's something else. Are we ever going to think about what climate we're in? We will think that at the moment we are at a time when, on the back of Greece, our country, in particular, the workers' backs - because big capital does not have much to do, migrate, steal, rob, rob - the controversies of Europe and the United States are being played on our back? We shall never sit in this House to discuss both within our parties, but essentially within the House, what does Trump's change of attitude mean to Germany? We'll ever talk about why Obama was so bruised and so indifferent to the new Trump and what are his options? What does America, the United States and Germany mean? We'll never sit down and talk about it, because it doesn't count, it doesn't sell. If I go out and say that my dear colleague, Mr. Dendias, say - I take the courage to your name - is a liar, is like this or is otherwise, it matters. That's not the point. The question is to stand up to real problems. I am worried, and if I had no family, children and grandchildren, I would not worry, because I am towards the west of my life. But I have grandchildren. Where are they going to live? Are we going to sit down and talk about what the 'Northern Corps' means from Russia to Germany? On a channel, of what we're going to say and tell a number of smart guys, did someone wonder, but what is this Northern Corpsman? It is the button of confrontation between Germany and the United States and Russia. We're looking at these. We're coming to say that Tsipras is going and he's mocking, that Tsipras is a liar, etc. And I don't know what. But is that the analysis, the approach to international problems? Is that how we're gonna answer? So let's go out and say that 'all right, baby, you leave and we'll do a global government, which, with what budget, will solve the problems?' With the liar Tsipra in or without the liar Tsipra? With the evil Maniot inside or without the evil Maniot inside? That's childish, and I'm sorry to say it, and I'm in the House that I call it...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u113	We're with the good Maniot.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u114	You're welcome. With the good Manio! Well, I'm good, I know. I will now tell you that I have no parliamentary experience and I do not know whether it is right to say what I am going to say, but it is true. Important strains of counterpopulation, about a conspiracy, not of the two extremes, the right, the other is not extreme in this sense, but it is the left of the JRC, which has another perception...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u115	Let's celebrate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u116	...say, "watch out", "be strong." And today I heard it in the Chamber. What should we hold fast? Don't fall. Why not fall after we destroy the country? If you're asking for a public election, why should we keep ourselves strong? Because you know two things, that if we fall, you have no hope of salvation. You know that you have led the people to even worse poverty and tolerance. You know there won't be a doctor anywhere. There have been two hundred, three hundred doctors in the health system in the province, and you say the National Health System is being destroyed. And so many years you didn't appoint anyone? Now we've appointed doctors who took the crisis in 2010. I don't see any responses. Take some numbers, get some information and read them as you wish. My criticism of the Communist Party is quite different. If I have one problem - and I want to say it - it is that the last'substance' is the most vain, the most noisy absence. It cannot be 'present' at all times. They must fight, because they have the instrument of international political analysis, they have grown it and have grown it with a great deal of acidity. So if we sit down and discuss in addition to the budget numbers that the budget needs to be realised in a peaceful environment, then we will see that things are far more difficult than they seem. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u117	The floor will now be taken by Mr. Kegeroglou and then by Mr. Baltas, Mrs. Karamanlis, Mrs. Manolakos, Mr. Tsirkas and Mr. Kavalellas. I'm saying all five, if anyone's missing in the Chamber, they'll be notified. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u118	Dear colleague Nico Manier, let me tell you what's happening to SYRIZA now. While here in the Chamber, we're getting out of the heat, you were folded with the scarf. You would be right if Greece had strategy and plan and would not have acted with regularization every week, if there were national understanding and priorities for the country, if the deceived citizens of Mr. Tsipras and you, the hundreds of fifty-three who voted for them, did not experience the tough measures and cuts every day. Instead of hope, you brought a tax storm and social spending cuts. You have exceeded every previous one and in conjunction with the absence of a development plan, you have also carried out economic and social activity. The country since 2015 has had the opportunity to go through a new phase. He could today discuss growth that produces real surpluses, new jobs that bring real jobs, fair burden sharing and benefits, but, above all, he could discuss the restoration of injustices. Instead, after the triumphant victory of populism and the so-called left, the country has led to a new dead end. With the last negotiation, in addition to the third plus memorandum, Greece enters a long-term surveillance with burdensome commitments for three generations. SYRIZA - ANEL, prosecutors of the real haircut by 150 billion of the debt, was easily satisfied on Monday with the promises of lenders for decisions in 2018 and benefit by 2060. They committed themselves to unbearable measures and discuss a surplus of 3.5% for many years. You do not have the authority, Mr SYRIZA - ANEL, to sign, as you did not have for the superstition with the lenders' administration, which will manage the property of the Greek State and the Greek people for ninety years. With the 2017 budget, which I see you happy to vote on, there are cumulative new taxes and an increase in old taxes of around 3,51 billion and, at the same time, a cut in social expenditure of about 960 million. The Government has opted for a large increase in indirect taxes - VAT, excise duties, excise duties, taxes and contributions - with the illusion that it will not have a political cost. It does not matter, however, that such a choice is strongly anti-development, as it puts a barrier to production and consumption. The example of the imposition of a excise duty on wine is characteristic. Few revenues and 65% increase in the illicit trade in wine. There is no question in the government that indirect taxes are deeply unfair and anti-social, since they are borne by each family and the poor pay equally with the rich. All this, together with overtaxation of income and a great increase in insurance contributions, creates a barrier to economic recovery. "It's no good producing and working more," ordinary people say in their own language. This is a downward level, which some of the SYRIZA consider to be equality. With all this, how, ladies and gentlemen, will the 2.7% growth target be achieved when the development law is still inactive, the NRP is being cancerd and the Rural Development Programme has not yet started? Without development, however, we will not escape the additions of overtaxation and the reduction of social costs, that is, the duplication of the policy of SYRIZA and the New Democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, the government and the expenditure side did not find any dark expenditure, but proceeded with a horizontal reduction in social spending. Not only did it not give the 15th pension, but it imposed new reductions in the pensions already reduced at the same time as increased contributions. The government with many fanatics has announced the implementation since 2017 of the guaranteed social income for the weakest. It is a programme that we prepared and institutionalised in the context of the national strategy on social protection, a project piloted in November 2014 with a forecast for universal implementation since July 2015. In addition to the unnecessarily delay for a year and a half, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has chosen to fund this programme from the abolition of the CSCE and the reduction of EUR 586 million. In other words, the left-wing government takes them from the poor pensioners to give them to deal with extreme poverty. And so you're answering Mrs. Fotio's public question, that is, if you're a crook. We won't say anything about it. Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has proved to be inadequate to develop a national line, unable to negotiate a sustainable programme, inefficient to deal with red loans and extra-judicial compromise, incapable of dealing with even simple management issues. Seven months has not yet issued the circular for the performance of widow's and handicapped pensions. It's temporary. Ten months cannot regulate the issue of road transport for the geotechnics of ELGA. Two years the Government has refused to implement European regulations, such as 751/2014 on the cap on interbank and plastic money transactions that some banks overdebted. On the contrary, the government has done it on three things to be fair. It increased health contributions and worsened the situation in hospitals and medical care. In education, instead of covering educational gaps, he did find a solution by abolishing teaching hours. In seizures of debts even EUR 500 went on for small professionals at the same time as refusing to establish the professional bank account inconsistent with it. Ladies and gentlemen, every day it becomes clear that the country needs a policy change. There is a need for national agreement on dealing with national risks and, of course, on the way out of the crisis. Everyone must assume their responsibilities. The SYRIZA - ANEL have failed and the New Democracy is, as it turns out, at a rotation of roles. The Democratic Reconciliation is working to change political correlations, to have a catalytic role in political developments. We call on the deceived of the 2014 Thessaloniki programme by Mr. Tsipras, to those who cannot accept a new disappointment from the 2016 Thessaloniki Programme by Mr.Mitsotakis, to come near to the Democratic Asylum, to join us, to draw up with our views and the need for progressive reforms, for a new sustainable development plan, with new jobs and a sustainable social state.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u119	Thank you. Mr Baltas, it seems to have become a civil one among your grandparents because I see here Dimitrios - Nikolaos - Aristides Baltas. I express all three names, but I choose Aristides. I like it better. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u120	It's the main thing. Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget time is traditionally - and rightly so - one of the top moments in a parliament's term of office. It's not just because it captures a situation and opens a path for next year. It is - at least ideally so - a longer course to show how the country will go, not only for the next year, but - mutatis mutandis and all the events that might be intervening - and for several years to come. As far as we are concerned, the attempt to tackle the crisis that has brought us to the government is not something instant, it is not the end of the crisis, that the country should proceed smoothly, as is said. It is to tackle the crisis and, together, to start building the conditions that will make us not to meet this crisis again. In this sense, a budget, as it stands, has a more strategic dimension and I would like to say a few words to it. A more strategic dimension means first of all to understand the country's special position at all levels of its functioning, evolution, relations between its people, relations with the rest of the world, etc. So the country's figures, in principle, that last for the long term. The country has a long history, so its features are captured throughout this story. Because time is too short, I will be very brief on some of these elements. Three important features I see, which give the country's stigma to the entire history of cultures, if you like. I would say that is this: firstly, obviously a story that goes back thousands of years, a story and a historical legacy that we find under our feet, a little bit if we dig. If we dig more, we find even more history. The successors of cultures, which are under our feet and there, on the basis of the self-awareness that these cultures can give us, can really support our tourism. The fact that all these cultures have some relevance to Greece's present day is a "unique" I would say - we are not the only country that does this - a long-lasting feature of this country. The second, consistent, is that it is a country of special natural beauty whole. In this sense, tourists come at first level, from natural well beginning, seeing and recognising our culture and developing further this feeling that in Greece something important is happening, Greece is something important. The natural beauty, you all know, is a relief, which starts from the islands and reaches Olympus, Taygetos and Psiloritis. The density of differences in relation to this geographical specificity, the cultures, which relate to this relief and keep their traits and tenths of what we can develop to understand better. The third feature, which is consistent with the previous one, is the country's geopolitical position. We are told, and are right to some extent at least, that helmet of modern Western civilization, not only Europe, but America, Australia, Canada, in particular Latin America, etc. In addition to the valley of western civilization, Greece's position is permanent, from ancient times, a gate between east and west, so good relations between east and west and, of course, the Mediterranean basin with the relationship with Africa, the Arab countries and so on. This geostrategic peculiarity also has elements linking us with Russia, because of Byzantine and Orthodoxy, has elements linking us to China. Because China, when it comes here, does not just see us as a country that invests, but sees us as a country that can be its interlocutor, because if they understand us well, as they have told us, they can understand the entire Western world. In this sense it is a country which, because of all these relations, can actually exercise a multi-dimensional foreign policy and keep to the fullest possible extent in an extremely complex one, let us say that today it is a reality for peace to be maintained everywhere. From that point on, the social features of the country are consistent with the previous ones: Small production, family businesses, the large family, which resists the crisis and which even in the worst possible conditions can make the members of this family and the short-sighted ones resist the crisis. These are the elements that have made the country live up to a crisis, which is the worst that the country has ever known under conditions of peace and only under conditions of war is comparable. So with these features we can go further. Ten points on the development demand, conditions and forms of development. I shall briefly mention them, because time is very short. Firstly, heavy industrial production is inconsistent with those characteristics of the country and therefore investments such as those in Skouria do not give any real advantage to the country. Secondly, mild forms of development adapted to these specificities, geographical and historical. Thirdly, making use of the country's particular features, the temperate seasons, the sea, the sun and the air. Adequate infrastructure at all levels that connect the different parts of the country to all modern forms. A relaunch of industrial development, which depends on all the previous and the innovations that are currently developing and can be developed here more. Scientific research and innovation in all fields. The abilities of Greek scientists are known in all areas. Let me stress here that it does not mean that Greece is not a world centre of classical studies and all forms of culture. Ninth, investment growth with these features, investment growth in such a way that foreign investors begin to understand that in Greece coming from the country's brand name and in this sense the previous forms of development can be consistent. I think that with such types of characteristics, which we can discuss quite soberer than we are used to in these requests, we can identify what forms of development are, how they are reflected in the figures that a budget has in fact and say that, from now on, we can move on so that not only can we overcome the crisis, but we can create conditions that do not give rise to this type of crisis again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u121	Parliamentary Second Athens, New Democracy, Anna Karamanlis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. My colleague, beyond the sea and the sun, forgot the tick. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2017 budget comes to a vote in plenary in a climate of euphoria on the part of the government. We really find it difficult to interpret it. Is it gratifying for your things these two years? Have they brought Greece to a better place than they have received? Or is it from the recent debt decision? Do you really think that society shares your enthusiasm? Do you think you can swipe about debt reduction by 45 billion in forty years, when your own negotiation has cost the country 100 billion in two years, when 40 billion dollars are only deposits lost for our banking system while you are ruling? What is the expectation of a household for debt by 2060 when you are committing yourself to surpluses of 3.5% and after 2018 when this entails new tough measures and an increase in the cost of living for citizens? Who, however, expects to take you seriously, when on one hand you commit the country with a cruel austerity and on the other you call on the political forces to reject the new measures? However, I return to the budget and the mismatch that exists between the government's optimism and the grim reality experienced by the citizens, a reality that one can easily see by making a brief account of 2016, a year when the country was in the recession, where the storm was kneeling down on the citizens and the average Greek family is now unable to meet its obligations. We have had an increase in direct taxation, an increase in VAT, an increase in insurance contributions, pensioners have seen their pensions cut, despite Mr Katrugalos' desperate efforts to convince them otherwise. Even the ESS has been cut by the government with the left and societal mark. Red loans are constantly increasing and have reached 37%, business locks recorded and increased by 33% over the previous year. Twenty-four thousand thirty-three caskets we had in the first nine months of 2016 and, of course, more than the new ones were founded. The government's reaction was to prevent citizens from leaving Bulgaria. The insurance funds are falling apart, infrastructure, such as urban transport, is in a tragic state. And yet this necklace is only the tip of the iceberg, because the budget you vote on, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, provides for a further 2.5 billion taxes: taxes on petrol, telephones, the Internet, taxes on coffee, beer, cigarettes, indirect taxes of a horizontal nature, which will fall mainly on the back of small and medium-sized enterprises. Is that your social justice? Is that how the privileged will pay? At the same time, growth of 2.7% is projected to increase private consumption by 1.8%. How? With a new tsunami of indirect taxes and with the income of citizens constantly falling we will increase consumption! This is one of the paradoxes of the budget. At the same time, there is provision for an increase in investment by 9.1%. Reading your inconspicuous assessments would give the impression that you've turned the country into a tax advisor, into an investment paradise. The reality is, however, different. You kill every business effort, you are intolerant of any private initiative. You have proved this once again with the fiasco of the investment in the TESC, where your ideas cost the country a few hundred million euros, money written in the budget, which will be missing from the state funds. Well, then, the optimistic predictions, but given your earlier government life and your policies, we are talking about Utopian expectations. The government's budget for sport does not even give rise to expectations. It's without aiming, no inspiration, no structured plan. The funding provided for in the 'House for All' programmes is minimal. Where the heart of Greek sport should be beaten, you turn your back. No weight is given to school athletics and to the encouragement of Greeks who rank among the most obese children in Europe. You see, money for teachers in schools doesn't exist and the course of physics teaches it. Money, however, is more than enough to be appointed by the "window" two hundred and twenty people in the building infrastructure. Obviously, there is a construction orgasm in the public sector, only Mr. Spirjis perceived. Also, there was no money last summer for the Olympic preparation of the national polo team, which was done in shameful conditions. However, there is money to set up a government-wide group of zero utility with the sole aim of wrestling the chosen Koumoundouros and all kinds of besties. Thessaloniki "Maximou" is your last achievement. To finance sports federations Mr. Kontonis had made specific commitments during the debate of the previous budget. A federal evaluation plan was promised, aimed at justice and transparency in their funding. Unfortunately, his announcements proved to be a fumara. We're still waiting for the plan. Probably the game of power and control of the federations proved more attractive. It was not the only announcement of the 2016 budget for sport that was referred to the bells. Mr. Kontonis had promised to create a code of own resources from fines imposed on professional groups. The code is still missing today. He promised to exploit the NRV for the energy upgrade of sports facilities. No energy. The funds provided for by the Public Investment Programme are limited to the same level as in 2016. Last year they did not make sufficient use of the creation or modernisation of sports facilities, but mainly for patches and rousphetological policy. We expect the new Deputy Minister to present a new plan at last for investing in sports infrastructure. It is clear that for the former leadership of the State Secretary for Sports Sports, it was only football. Maybe because soccer gives the privilege of intense projection. Even there, however, the myth of the so-called'success story' collapses day after day. Ladies and gentlemen, the second budget of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL is governed by the same philosophy, ruthless taxation of everything, allergies to reforms, enlargement of the party state and tears in privatisation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. They may be moved by the leaders of socialist paradises of Latin America, with whom the Prime Minister joins and they say "Alexis, hold fast", but the Greek society has ceased to tolerate them, which is more and more intensely told you to leave. You can't ignore her for a long time. You'll have to escape soon. It is the best service you can offer in our homeland, so that you can breathe and get out of the stall, in which you have immersed it. Finally, yesterday you asked the citizens to go out to the mobilisations, which means that on Saturday you will vote against the budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u123	My colleague from the Communist Party of Greece, Mrs Diamanto Manolakou, has the floor. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. You are hiding, gentlemen, all together that the budget includes objectives and political directions that serve the ruling order of capitalists. At the same time, you use him as a propaganda tool to to tow people's forces. Therefore, opposition parties are paradoxical, saying it is the most anti-grass budget. It must be forgotten that the SYRIZA Government continues from you to the third memorial, which, of course, you all approved together. Crocodile your tears for the people! Fellow of all of you for the bill that brought out five hundred labour centres and trade unions for sectoral collective agreements in every workplace, which the Communist Party of Greece submitted. That's your hypocrisy! That's right! You're grabbing them from poverty! Nothing goes out without your tax, so you can squeeze the capital with tax exemptions, state subsidies, i.e. free money for the people and free work of tens of thousands of people, who, in order to get the OAED allowance, have to work for free on the capitalist. This is termed 'employers' support programmes'. Shame on you! This redistribution has been requested by the Association of Greek Industrialists, Mr Papanatsiou, and you also implement the budget. On top, you sell hope and promises that the rulers will come out of the clearing. Only he will have debris for the people and more profits for the capital. But promises are also made by the Civic Opposition. She is concerned about the anti-grassroots that she herself first established with ENPIA, reduction of pensions, and what to begin with. Now you want to hide that you have the same strategy as the government for increases in profits in bankers, shipowners, industrialists, big businessmen. Did the NAT and the OGA not subordinate them to the New Democracy and the PASOK? SYRIZA today put the tombstone. What a conspiracy! The dismantling of the NAT and other maritime insurance funds and the smuggling of pensions are inextricably linked to the abolition of collective agreements, the overthrow of industrial relations, the expansion of the "black" uninsured labour across all categories of ships, without social security rights. At the same time, you maintain and strengthen the provocative tax exemptions and the privileges of shipowners and tax the seafarers, ejecting 54% of the tax on their income, leveling their insurance and pension rights. Why don't you tax the logistics fund with 45% and put 54% on the seafarers? Because uncircumcisedly, you all support the shipowners. This is your redistribution! Fairly, the mass strike of the maritime movement and must be embraced by all the people. In the farm, however, one sniffs the other. New Democracy and PASOK brought HISPHIA, and SYRIZA expands him. A new value added tax is also being prepared on property and parcels. For the delirium of the Minister of Agriculture yesterday of the coveted farmers who are unfairly complaining, what can I say to you? Let's go to the villages, tell the farm. The abolition of a refund on agricultural oil, reduced production and unpaid production by large exporters reduced income. But taxes increased. At the same time, subsidies have become obsolete before the farmer sees them in his account! They've been swallowed by the bank, by the bank, by a chewy premium, by big dealers and others. If farmers earned, through their great struggles, a tax-free limit of EUR 8,500 and they will get back, they will be grabbed within one night by the increased insurance contributions. Last year was EUR 40 million and now EUR 93 million. At the same time, keep the pretext, which means that if you have no income, you are taxed, as is the advance tax that breaks down all those small and medium-sized people who have endured. At the same time, VAT 24% on supplies. That's why, Mr. Chironi, the agricultural sector went to 3%. That is what the European Union is promoting, that is what you and all the parties on the Euro-mono street are doing. That is why your budget perpetuates the class injustice, shattering the country's productive potential, which can disappear hunger, misery, reduce the human effort, by reducing working time, which is possible and necessary, but impossible in the context of capitalism. The Greek experience confirms that no bourgeois government, whatever its name, can humanise capitalism, which, as it rotates, becomes more barbaric, more reactionary. Capitalist development is linked to the impoverishment of workers. The government is consciously deceiving by cultivating delusions, as you have recently done with the Eurogroup - a trick for the people and the next generations. The government celebrates! That is why the people need to strengthen their struggle, starting with today's strike, which we welcome, since a philosophical solution is only possible when the people organise their counter-response, in order to break down and overthrow capital and its power. Then it will ensure jobs and not unemployment, prosperity for the people and not for the profits of the capitalists, health, education, welfare, sport for all, public and free, and not for the few. Then the means of production and the wealth produced will belong to society with real power of the people, without exploiters and exploitation. Then there will be popular prosperity. That is why popular uprising is realistic, necessary and hopeful.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty students and students and three educational attendants from Eritrea High School. That's a nice name! The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Following Mrs Manolakou's turn, Mr. Vassilis Tsirkas from SYRIZA. Mr. Circa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the 2016 budget was the first sign of a left-wing government writing after breaking the vicious cycle of recession and laid the foundations for fiscal stability, for turning the economy into growth, with society standing. The 2017 budget can indeed be the principle of returning to growth and normality. Already in 2016 and for two consecutive quarters, positive growth rates have been achieved and further improvement is foreseen for the coming years. In 2017, the primary surplus target is to be exceeded and is therefore the third year in which the government will achieve the budgetary targets. Our aim for next year is to maintain the budgetary balance in order to recover confidence in our country, by sharing costs, adapting and a fair social distribution of its benefit. With the provision of approximately 2.7% growth for 2017, as reflected in the budget, the necessary conditions for the country's productive, development and administrative reconstruction are created. We are legislating and negotiating in an unfavourable economic environment. The truth is that we have been on land for a long time, diligently prepared by the previous government of the supporters of the memorandum. But now we have a window of hope for the recovery of the economy and the exit from the memoranda. After last May's decision that debt payments cannot exceed 15% of GDP, a few days ago, it was decided to take short-term measures of 22% of GDP, i.e. around EUR 45 billion. It is time for the Opposition to recognise not governmental success, but the great national step that the Greek Government has achieved and to take a position on negotiation issues. With perseverance and commitment to the issue of debt regulation we have managed to adopt concrete short-term measures, for the first time without new measures, without impoverishing the Greek people, as was done with the PSI, with the destruction of micronomists and the pillaging of the insurance funds. The efforts to complete the second assessment continue, having locked a positive outcome for the viability of the Greek debt. We have made it clear to all tons that it is not possible to accept absurd requirements from lenders. On the contrary, the tough negotiation continues, so that for many years the primary surpluses after 2018 are not maintained at high levels, so that the vicious cycle of austerity is finally closed to return to European normality and to work. It is sad to see the opposition under the circumstances, not to recognise the sacrifices of the Greek people and the New Democracy matching the most extreme positions of the creditors of Europe and the IMF. The New Democracy programme is confessed: cuts and redundancies. But let the Quaestorial Opposition answer us and make her self-criticism about the extinct primary surpluses that she had agreed, in exchange for the signature of the fifth assessment, of 4.5%. Or was the target another one? Did you consciously set up the left parentheses scene? You didn't come out. On the other hand, in 2014, they committed themselves to a primary surplus of 1.5%, but eventually only achieved 0.3%, a declining 1.2%, that is, 2 billion euros. We have managed to achieve the objectives of the programme so far and this without new extermination measures for the citizens, with less budgetary adjustment measures than you agreed, which gave us and gives us the necessary financial space for the implementation of development and social protection policies. Ladies and gentlemen, within this framework we are discussing and calling on us to vote on the 2017 budget. Indeed, a country's budget is not just figures. This is where the government's position and political targeting are reflected. Despite the difficulties, for another year, we also insist on the redistribution of funds in a fair manner with a social focus. We have already left a strong footprint of our own policy and the results are concrete and visible. In a suffocating financial framework, this government remains a fundamental priority to strengthen and shield social protection, to stimulate public investment. To this end, the budget also incorporates some critical interventions, such as: The full extension of the social solidarity income with appropriations of EUR 760 million, which will cover over two hundred and fifty thousand households living in poverty, the strengthening of sensitive areas of health and care, education and social protection, with the additional provision of EUR 300 million available to cover needs exceeding the existing appropriations, the EUR 100 million contribution for arrangements for non-performing loans of the overhead households, the increase in the public investment programme, the zero participation of the beneficiaries of the EKT with a disability rate of more than 80% in the cost of their medication. Because I come from an exceptionally rural county, I stress and say that we promised the great majority of farmers a relief. We have ensured that with the introduction of the individual tax-free limit of EUR 8,600. Because, according to data from the Ministry of Finance of 2015, 95% of all farm income statements show an income of between 0 and 9000 euros. Farmers who correspond to these declarations will not only pay in 2017 a single euro, but will also repay them the entire tax advance they paid in 2016. In combination with taxation and insurance, 90% of farmers will pay less for their insurance than they gain from the reduction of their taxation. I'm closing, Mr. President. We have given examples of writing of this titanium effort for the definitive break with the vicious past, as well as the redistribution of resources and power from the overriding economic oligarchy that is evading to the great social majority that is looking forward to this effort by the government. With systematic work and perseverance, but also a strategic vision for a new Greece, we can achieve it by creating a new environment as free as possible from aberrations and diseases of the previous decades, but mainly in terms of multi-faceted support for rural people, unemployed people, workers and youth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u127	Well, with my colleague, Mr. Cavalella, he's closing the seventh cycle. They have spoken ninety-two colleagues. I think that the whole list will be exhausted by Saturday, because we are going well. Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u128	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today I may sound a little strict, because I will put them all together, not only with the current co-chairmen, but also with the New Democracy and the PASOK that brought the ship near the rocks - and SYRIZA has put it up on the rocks - but also with the KKE, which wants to mock ears. The JRC says that a good so-called proposal would be to tax shipowners who, at sea, will change their flag and have no single boat. And therefore, they will lose their jobs and the few Greeks who work on ships. Another fine proposal from the JRC is to tax the industrialists. Yes, we all want to pay a little more, but the tax will be passed on to the product, which, if a pound of paper does, say, 2 euros, after a tax on the industrial industry, will do 2.5 euros. I'll pay that for you and me. Therefore, I have not heard from either here or there anything interesting, which I can say 'Bravo, that is the solution'. However, at the moment the Greek people are desperate and very angry. I go out and I see this thing. He's very uneasy. Everyone asks me, no matter of economic order and order, what happens and how far this thing goes. You, Mr Tsipras, are not here, of course, but I tell him to listen to it - which you would rip off the memos, which you would put up the pensions, which you would bear on some tumbles that Europeans would dance in your tumbles, you would bring a parallel programme. And thank God you didn't bring it because it would be disastrous now for your entire programme. Not that it's not that, but it would be more destructive. Instead, we saw the 'no' being made 'yes' overnight. Laductors, others say rabbits! You pull rabbits out of hats! We saw capital controls, we saw pension cuts. What should I start? We have seen the abolition of the ESS - I have noted them here, so that I do not forget them - cuts in the HEIs, increase in VAT, increase in fuel, coffee, beer, increases everywhere, less money. After all, you bring a budget based on an increase in consumption, that the Greek people are supposed to make terrible expenses, where they were - let's say - ten things, it will take fifteen now, because it has more money in the pocket. Well, with false reasoning you're trying to pet your own people's ears to vote for, because we're not naive enough for the rest of us not to know what these cuts mean. There will certainly be a reduction in consumption rather than an increase. There is something that has been heard many years ago that, if they have no bread, let them eat panoramics. That's how I could parallel your system here. Anyway! And the Turks have taken news that we are on the brink of destruction, are ironing us and they're roaring right now. At the same time, they create alliances in the Balkans with the Albanians, with the Skopje and with all kinds of other contestants. Mr. Tsipras at this difficult time for Greece takes the Prime Minister plane - because the Greek people are rich and he doesn't know where to throw his money - and he goes to the funeral of Castro, for which the other North Korean dictator, to honor him, proclaimed three-day mourning. There was only Mr. Tsipras among the other third worlds. No one west went to Castro's funeral. That means that Mr. Tsipras still keeps those delusional ones, he's a fan of these models. On the other hand, he showed it on several occasions, he told us about the success of Maduro, which, if one goes to Venezuela right now and holds a kilo of sugar, may fall upon him two thousand to take it away from him. You are therefore bringing us a budget and you are asking us to vote in favour of this budget, to put us in your crime against the Greek people as well. This budget is based on fraud, utopia, fantastic scenarios, that consumption is supposed to increase, as we have said before. There are basic parameters that need to be taken into account, which we need to know before someone puts their signature. For example, will the International Monetary Fund accept to be involved and, if so, what will be the final terms? We don't know that. You're bringing us an anti-development budget based on an easy solution. What's the easy solution? Horizontal cuts. The income of the Greek citizen is cut horizontally. This means that the rich, and so will the poor. I didn't hear any suggestions. Let me go straight to some of the Centrons' proposals that must be heard, and let me say the same. We call for the pension cut in the pensions of the older pensioners to be reduced in favour of the weak, with a pension ceiling of EUR 1,500 until the country comes out of this current war, the mergement of double and triple pensions to a condition of EUR 1,500, the abolition of the pension of the former Members. We don't need former MPs retiring, because one was an engineer, the other was a doctor, the other was a trader. Let's get everyone out of his fund. Symbolically and realistically they must be abolished. We are proposing the gradual reduction of the elected representatives' wages, because we must also show one person that we are sympathetic. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. We have proposed the removal of redundancies, the repatriation of Greek capital, the repatriation of businesses, the most effective absorption of the NRP, which is now 5%. These are some of our basic proposals and I hope that there will be praiseworthy ears to the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u129	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the eighth cycle and I will read out the first five speakers, who are Mr Stefos, Mr Davakis, Mrs Georgopoulos - Saltaris, Mr Kasidiaris and Mr Triantafylides. As far as I can see, Mr Chakalotos entered the Chamber and I would like to ask him something. Minister, because since yesterday you have declared that around 14:30 the time you want to make a ten-minute position...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u130	I should like to make a position on the negotiation, Mr President, if colleagues want it too. It's not about the budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u131	I want you to tell me, so I can schedule.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u132	Mr President, I would like to speak at 14:45 an hour.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u133	So this first five minutes will not be interrupted. After the five of the speakers that will be around forty minutes, Mr. Chakalotos will be given the floor. We start with Mr. Ioannis Steph, my colleague from SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Stephoe, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are coming to talk about the 2017 budget at a favourable time for the country that opens prospects for the future. This is a juncture other than the Eurogroup decision of 5 December. What did our country gain from this? First and foremost, the 'Cassanders' agreement applies in May on short-term debt, without any direct impact requirements. The debt reduction by 22%, i.e. EUR 45 billion, was ensured. Interest rates are stabilising to 1.5% in an international environment of uncertainty and forecasts for an increase in interest rates. There is a normalization of the loan repayment profile at 32.5 years. Also, what does the government pursue and is under constant negotiation with creditors? We will, of course, hear it from Mr Tsakalotos in an hour's time, but because we have the restoration of the normality of working relations in the rest of Europe, it will be interesting here to hear the position of the New Democracy, since it is the one who introduced the working middle ages. We succeeded in rejecting new austerity measures after the end of the programme and negotiating the amount of primary surpluses from 2018 onwards. The Civic Opposition has chosen on this difficult road to stand against any attempt to exit the crisis. Her only concern is how she will highlight most of the obstacles to the positive development of the negotiations, in line with the attitude of the IMF and all the neoliberal ideas she represents. The only concern of counterpopulation is its rise in power and the implementation of the catastrophic policy pursued over the years of the memoranda. What does the New Democracy tell us about the budget? He tells us he's a tax collector and that he'll make the people's layers even more impoverished. The truth is that there are direct and indirect taxes, but they are largely balanced by providing services to citizens, increasing health and education expenditure, Social Solidarity Benefit, integrating the oldest minimum guaranteed income programme and applying throughout the country. Instead, the New Democracy proposes a reduction in expenditure. Where? Cheers? At wages? Pensions? You're firing me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u135	Taxes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u136	The answer to everything is yes, Mr Brutsi. You've inspired the lesson. I'll tell you. The secret agenda of the Officerial Response, the one Mr.Mitsotakis implied in his speech at the ICU but too many of your officials in many speeches, is the reduction of costs with redundancies of civil servants, the further impoverishment of hospitals and schools, the greater deregulation in labour relations. So this is the prospect that the New Democracy can offer to the country for exiting the crisis. Only it is not a prospect of getting out of the crisis, but a tombstone for the Greek society, for all layers of the population, except for the friends to New Democracy, whose interests serve. It is the prospect of paying taxes from the rich on a voluntary basis and therefore of exporting billions of euros to the banks of Switzerland and Luxembourg and to all kinds of tax havens. It is the prospect of creating new Lagard and Boryans lists that any Deputy Prime Minister or any other government official can hide. In other words, it is the prospect of the return of the old, dirty, immoral in the political system. Let us now come to the budget. It includes material measures. The government is the first to confess. Apart from the real measures, however, there are a number of measures which provide elementary assistance for the most vulnerable social groups, the most hit by the recession of all these years. In 2015, under the budget drawn up by the previous government, the current government provided EUR 100 million in support of the weakest households. In 2016, this year's budget cost EUR 272 million. For 2017, 760m euros are incorporated for the financial support of vulnerable households, without prejudice to basic allowances such as family and disabled people, which have been accepted by institutions following government insistence. You call it a negotiation! In addition, an increase of EUR 300 million for education and health is incorporated and EUR 250 million for public investment support. Because for the government, despite the tight financial framework, health and education are areas of absolute priority that can improve the daily lives of citizens. Let us look at the comparative data on education. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 100000. Thus the government continues its policy of starting with last year's budget, which has put a brake on the continuous reductions in education expenditure in previous years. This is evidenced by comparing the 2017 budget of the current government, with the expenditure decided by the Government of PASOK and New Democracy in 2017, through the mid-term of 2015-2018 passed by Law 4263/2014. Comparing these costs, we find that, in the 2017 budget, the costs of the Ministry of Education are increased by EUR 691 million or EUR 15.6%. Although these costs do not satisfy us, this comparison is catalytic in order to make everyone aware of what would happen in education too if the political change of January 2015 had not taken place. I mentioned it more than that. What the New Democracy is publishing to reduce spending means less money for welfare sectors and liberalisation of the limits for private capital entry and education. That is why he had launched a rabies attack on the "Friend Law", because the New Democracy seeks unresolved and uncontrollable dismissals of teachers from private schools. He wants private education to come under the Ministry of Trade. He's an enemy of the New Democracy, Article 16 of the Constitution and public universities. That's why six years hadn't made any staff intakes. The aim of the New Democracy is to be able to enter public universities' administrations as well. The aim of the New Democracy is the complete degradation of the welfare state and the absolute sovereignty of the multinationals in the field of the economy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The aim of the New Democracy - and I conclude - is the equalisation of the Greek society and the perpetuation of the old political establishment that ensures its chairs and the exploitation of power, in order to promote the interests of its own children and the dominant social order it represents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u137	We shall now proceed to Mr Athanasios Davakis, from Laconia, a designated Member of the New Democracy. Mr. Davakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the New Democracy, as the recent colleague from a continent has said, is not all that he has said, unfortunately. The aim of the New Democracy is - and it will soon become a reality with the help of the Greek people - to take the place out of this nightmare, which has been accumulated by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. It also creates a prosperous perspective for the future and create new paths of consensus and political convergences and not a phrase of the type "we" and "we", but a phrase that will give breath and a better Greece to tomorrow's generations. I listened with caution to my colleague, Mr SYRIZA, on the budget, who mentioned most of which are not applicable. They do not apply, as do the budgets that this government brings. Among other things, he made reference to a historical, real fact. You said, Mr Colleague, after a great deal of stress, that since you're the opposition, you say we've dropped you - but we didn't - why don't you shoot us too? I think, Mr. Colleague, because you're young in the Chamber...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u139	Who said that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u140	There are the Minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u141	I told the elections who's making them!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u142	That's right! That's what I'm saying!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u143	The elections are held by the government and not by the opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u144	That's right! So, you should know...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u145	Do it now, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u146	Repeat the slip in which you suspected, confirming what I'm saying. So I say to you that Article 32 of the Constitution clearly states how the elections take place in the case of the presidential elections. In the event of a presidential election, the third non-complete and incomplete procedure inevitably leads to elections. So you have used the Constitution to interrupt and halt the country's course with what this means in the two years that the country has passed. That is why I spoke about a nightmare experienced by the Greek people during the two years of government SYRIZA - ANEL. Because judging what was happening at the time and what you said about HISPHIA, '751' and the thirteenth - they are codified and I do not say the individual - we understand the mockery and despair in which the Greek people have been found, so that today you can sit at the headquarters of power and at the headquarters of the government. I'll say two, three things about the farm. We are talking about a country that from the twenty-eight of the European Union we are twenty-seven in absorption. Mr Apostle, instead of constantly saying reports of ideas such as many SYRIZA ministers and former ministers - I have heard Mr Baltas before - it would be good to say concrete figures, when they submit your Members' questions for clarification from the Ministry, about the farmers' tax, about the insurance of farmers and about all that they make up a blurred landscape and nobody knows what to do. The tax has not yet been cleared how Law No.4387, the Katorugalou, will be implemented.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u147	The insurance company.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u148	In insurance and tax, Mr. Comrade. SYRIZA's colleagues tabled a question on 5 December - that is to say, they control the government - and demand specific situations. As far as these questions are concerned - because we are also in difficult times - we are going to the village and we are saying 'I have tabled a question. What am I supposed to do, children, when taxation and insurance are choking you?' When for a second consecutive six months now we have an increase in the contributions of the OGA, we must be ashamed. It cannot be said, ladies and gentlemen, that 98% of farmers will not be taxed when all, and indirect taxation, are charged to the Greek farmer when you have to buy feed, cottonseed or hay, if you like, and pay 24%, when the agricultural supplies are at these levels! What desertification of the agricultural sector can we talk about? Do not tell me forty years, because if something today keeps Greek agriculture standing, it is the subsidies that you are receiving from the European Union. Historical choice of this party!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u149	VAYSSADE (S). — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the This is a basic accounting principle.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u150	I would therefore like us to be clear, to say the truth as it is and to be more modest. I heard Mr Balta earlier in a report on the history of Greece and the cultural and natural environment. So I wanted to know why the questions we put about the Sparta Museum, for example, are constantly unanswered. It seems that even today movements of citizens, regions, documents and questions cannot move the Greek state, the central state of SYRIZA and ANELs, when the process for the Museum of Sparta had already been launched. I read, ladies and gentlemen, in the rapporteur's report, that there will be EUR 88,000,000 interventions at the Ministry of National Defence. Where are these interventions from? Would it be good for Mr. Co-pilot, Minister Panos Kammenos to tell us and explain to us: Is it from the risk allowance of the Armed Forces executives? So, for those flying, diving, parachuteing, cutting down certain things? We are all seeking to find the Paccolos river - for those you do not know, Paccolos was a river in Asia Minor - of the millions or billions reported by the Minister of National Defence here on May 22nd. I am pleased that Mr Juliarakis was here before - he has now left - who, as a serious person - I cannot say - said 'I have not received any of the equivalents that Mr Kammens invoked from the Step of the House.' As far as the Ministry of National Defence is concerned, I would like to make it clear that the 27,300,000 of 2017 and 27,300,000 of 2018 will be ensured as a whole by code 6900 for equipment entitled "New Priorisation for Equipment". That is to say, the equipment programs, which are not going on for many reasons, will cover the 18,600,000. Do you know that at the moment there are 100,000 000 of the FIFGs - the financial Payment Orders - 2015 and 2016, which are unavailable? So why should the 27,000,000 not be given by the equipment in the payment code? Secondly, the Minister tells us here at the National Representation that Rheinmetall alone, which is an armament company as you will know, offers through her lawyer - Rheinmetall's lawyer was asking Mr. Kammenos to compromise with 200,000 000. These were determined by the Step of the Parliament by Greek Minister of National Defence. I call upon him, when Mr Kammenos speaks, to say what I denounce him today that he lied to the National Representation and has swept away not only with the Ministers for National Defence, but also the party with whose vote he supports. You look like and look like - especially the people who trusted you and came to support you with their vote in several elections - what Thucydides says in the Peloponnese War: "The army of Nikias is reluctant", i.e. soulless, little, disappointed, "and great change as it is". The "big change" does not need to be translated. You understand what a change we're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u151	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u152	What for?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u153	About what he referred to.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u154	It is not provided for in the procedure, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u155	He's on a personal level because he falsified my words.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u156	He didn't personally remind you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u157	No, I want to make a clarification about what he said. He paraphraseed my words.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u158	First, sit down. Because you're present, we'll close the five and then okay, for a minute to make your clarification. I would like to inform the House that the Ministers for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Interior, Economic and Development, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Finance, Health, Administrative Reconstruction, Culture and Sport, Environment and Energy, Infrastructure and Transport, Immigration Policy, Rural Development and Food, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Economy and Development, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Employment, Social Security and Social Solidarity and Social Solidarity, have tabled a draft law on 82-12-2016, ‘National Instrument for Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation of Social Integration and Cohesion Policies, Arrangements on Social Solidarity and Applications’. The above draft law has been classified by the Government as urgent. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Of course, I have never understood - and you and I - why we do not say 'the government has tabled' and read the whole of the Council of Ministers. Mrs Georgopoulos - Saltari has the floor. Here, you have the floor, Mrs. Saltari.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the 2017 budget, the positive prospects for the recovery of the Greek economy are clearly reflected. As much as people in this Chamber do not want to admit it and try to find only negative, to distort reality and economic elements, the recent Eurogroup discredits them. To freshen up the memory of some who were and still cling to the ideologies of neoliberalism. They applied to our country with unprecedented cruelty. The downturn in wages, pension cuts, the decline in social benefits, the elasticization of labour relations and not only growth came, but we also had a recession and an unprecedented disinvestment. That's not all. You left behind a country of extreme inequality and enormous wounds that are not perfect. What should I mention first? For the AACC's appointing officers since 1998 and the coming years that you had them in the unclaimed, and this government has slowly absorbed them? For the fact that we are now paying compensation to earthquakes, for example, in Elias since 2008? The fact that fines have been accumulated by breaches of Community law, whether for waste or for the environment, and are we trying to limit them? It is a long list and time is not enough. It is unfortunate that the previous Member described our own term of office as a nightmare, the term of office of this government. Then how can we describe the mandate of the PASOK and the New Democracy governments in the previous period? As a sorrow, as a squirrel, who dissolved everything in its path? Let some be careful in their expressions and descriptions. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the area of education in which we see in the budget that the Ministry's expenditure is projected to increase by EUR 161 million. It turns out once again that the government's political will to support public education, but the greatest evidence is clearly an improved situation at the beginning of this year's school year, with 50% more substitutes since 2014, with particular emphasis on special education and primary education, with school books on time. The increase in research expenditure also shows support for political leadership in this area. Because in this Chamber some forget very quickly, I will return you a little back, in May 2014, at the peak of the success story, in the medium-term 2015-2018, where there was a rapid cut in expenditure for education of 2.55% in 2015 to reach 1.99% in 2018. It is clear that it was their political will to depreciate public education. It also appeared from unheard of energy to fire teachers from public schools. In the area of culture, it is clear that we have given positive examples of writing to important institutions, such as the Olympic Festival for children and young people, co-financed by the Ministry of Culture and the Region of Western Greece, and this visibility and support must continue and be shielded in the coming years, as well as in the budget is provided for the grant of corresponding institutions. We are therefore moving forward with the NSRF 2014-2020, the protection, restoration, archaeological sites of major importance, listed UNESCO World Heritage Monuments. I am very pleased that the temple of Epicurean Apollo in the Bass of Figalia is also included. It is a good thing in this budget for culture and that there is a corresponding budget line for payroll of EUR 220,000 for thirteen employees who succeed in the 1998 ADP, that is, after sixteen years, who are appointed permanently to the Chamber of Visual Arts of Greece, which will significantly strengthen this basic institution of culture. Since I live and am elected in a prefecture with a strong agricultural element, I would like to point out that farmers must continue to support them with all possible financial instruments, that the producers affected are compensated and that the bachelor is fully implemented. Let me remind you here that 2016 was a record year for payments of Community funds for aid, and that is fundamental to our rural world. It is our daily care to support citizens' incomes, to cut unnecessarily costs, and I am referring to the excellent initiative of the Ministry of Health for electronic appointments without charge to all units of the CEDEFOP and to health centres. We are against parasiticism and every day we take a step further to support the welfare state. In conclusion, I would like to point out that we are fully aware of our difficulties in a committee environment and economic hardship. We will, however, continue the effort for the end of the committee in 2018 to finally open the way for the realization of the Greek economy. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u160	I, my colleague, even twice for the time being. The speaker of the Golden Dawn, Ilias Cassidyris, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u161	It was a few days before the referendum, that flawless summer of 2015, where I had come to the House with handcuffs through the prison passed by the Chief of the third party of the country and its other MPs. I said from this on the Stepma that SYRIZA will not only do an asshole and bring a third memorandum, but will bring the worst memorandum for Greece. We didn't fall out. The only point we fell out on is that we did not predict the fourth memorandum that SYRIZA is about to bring, the fourth most disastrous memorial to our homeland. So at the moment Eurogroup is coming, it's talking about 3.5% surplus for ten years from 2018 to 2028. These are for citizens who do not understand, we can translate them very simply. For 1,7% of the surplus, the public measures 2,5 billion euros to the detriment of the citizens. So, in simple words, what SYRIZA is about to do now is a new knife, new cuts in people's wages and pensions, new taxes on citizens, poor citizens and not parliamentarians. Because the MPs are tax-free. Why the parties take 15 million euros a year and share them other than Golden Dawn. It is an honor that we do not take money from this Memorandum State, and everyone else drinks and eats for the health of the suckers. The country is ruined. I estimate that with the 3.5% surpluses for ten years you will go to measures that will spend EUR 50 billion. It's a disaster for the economy. The country is burning and Tsipras is laughing. Now I watched him on TV, again as a foolish fool, laughing at and sending Madame Tsakalotou to Merkel to say "yes" to all, to sell Greece, to sign the Greek disaster. We are talking about an absolute dissolution, an absolute disaster in the country. Public property has been sold for a hundred years and national wealth has passed into the hands of foreigners. I see Tsipra and she goes to Israel, and she's laughing. Truly, does Tsipras have a picture of what laws Israel has for illegal immigrants and racism, how racist state is Israel who went and moved his hands? Right now for 2017, I'm going to use some numbers that the people will understand but not this paradoxical tactic of the ministers who lie, come out on the channels and say "we'll resist" and then go to Symple and say "yes" to everything. For 2017 alone, then, we pay EUR 6.5 billion in interest and EUR 7.5 billion in debt, that is, only EUR 15 billion in 2017! With the most prosperous calculations up to 2021, the public pays EUR 45 billion in debt. All this is illegal. All this is disgusting and we need to audit Greece's public debt so that we can finally see what the country is paying for. But that's what you said, because we're talking about budget today and we have your Minister here, who talks English perfectly, doesn't know Greek and when he goes out he says "yes man" to everyone. Then, when you stole the vote of Greek citizens, you said you would enter the budget for the loan. Where's the rent loan? The loan that Germany owes to Greece has entered into the budget? Oh, no. Paradoxopoulos had some time gone out, and he said we would commit the German property and the Goethe Institute. Merkel called, pulled out his little dear Alexis Tsipras' pussy, you fucked up, and you got it all back. Golden Dawn is the only force that claims for Greece's mortgage loan from Germany. When we had come here to the Parliament Germans and told them things by their name, they did the pagans, as the people say, on the matter of the mortgage, they did not say a word, they did not answer anything. Because the loan, after the Paris Treaty of 1946, which was recognised by its existence internationally, then, and with a reasonable interest, can reach a very high level today, to a level of hundreds of billions of euros and, in fact, to speak, what the Golden Dawn programme says, to offset what you say to Germany with the real and capable of claiming Germany's debt to Greece. But that's never gonna happen. The German economic oligarchy has embraced dear Alexis Tsipras, the intertwined flagship of the German press, Süddeutsche Zeitung, was anthem yesterday for your Prime Minister. Take note of this, which you say you are anti-German and we are philosophers, the only party persecuted throughout Europe, the whole European press is abusing and fighting the Golden Dawn and you dare and say such things to us. For you, then, listen to what the German loan sharks, the German financial oligarchs and their flagship say. Süddeutsche Zeitung wrote: "International creditors must admit that there is no better for Prime Minister than Alexis Tsipras". They are right because for the interests of the foreign economic oligarchy, for the service of foreign, unwilling interests your Prime Minister is the best. There is, therefore, the fact that you are going to say 'yes' to everything. You will do the well-known pajamas, you will say that "we resist, we negotiate", as you have been saying for months and you have been mocking the world, you will say "yes" to everything, as in 2015, as you did then with the referendum. Only a left government can sell Greece to such an extent and there is no reaction, stand by and look, other than Golden Dawn, which continues to fight against this unwilling policy. Hand to New Democracy. Together you voted in August 2015 in favour of the third anti-French Memorandum, along with the coexistence of the Greek society, you voted for the Islamism of our country with the creation of Islamic jams illegally in the capital of Greece. They want foreigners, of course, after the best dear Alexis Tsipras, Mr. Siemens, Mr. Mitsotakis for Prime Minister. They want him, too. There is, however, a constant problem here. This stable power is the rising political power of the Golden Dawn, which, with the perpetrator that has now received the percentages of SYRIZA, which falls below 20% and will shortly be below 15%, with the Golden Dawn two-digit percentage constantly rising, we will be a second party when the elections are held and Civic Opposition. I'm hanging up. I heard a Turkish man say on the canals that he's coming into the Greek islands and put, he says, a pole with a Turkish flag. Well, the Turks who say that, because there are accidents with the ribs, they may get into the wrong, sensitive spots and cause painful situations. This is what we respond to those who provoke Greek sovereignty in the Aegean Sea. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] The Aegean Sea is Greek. The Aegean Sea is Greece and Greece claims, not only the islands that belong to us, from the Treaty of Losani, but also the proclamation of the Greek Exclusive Economic Zone, which can make our country a sovereign power in the Eastern Mediterranean. Because because of the existence of the Magistrate complex, I would also refer to Kastelorizo, which was taken out of the group 53 of your Minister and found us to be a criminal party. We went to Kastelorizo because Kastelorizo is a Greek country and is the key to Greece's sovereignty in the Eastern Mediterranean. With the Law of Golden Dawn on the proclamation of the Greek EEZ, our vision, Greece geopolitically, will take place Greece geostrategically to dominate the wider region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u162	It closes the fiveteenth, as I said, with my colleague Mr Triantafylides. Then Mr. Chakalotos will speak. The Minister made it clear to me that he will not talk about the budget, but he wants to inform the House for ten minutes about the Eurogroup, the negotiation and the whole story. So I'll let you know and tell me when it's time. He has asked for Mr Tsakalotos to speak after Mr Tsakalotos as a parliamentary representative, Mr Dendias. Then around 16:00, Mr. Loverdos had asked me to talk to him earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u163	No, no, Mr. President. I didn't know the Minister was going to talk. After Mr. Treasury...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u164	Yeah, yeah, that's what I'm saying. Don't interrupt me, Mr. Loverdo. What's next? In the parliamentary order, Mr. Deedias will speak first. Mr. Dendias didn't even know about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u165	After Mr. Treasury.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u166	Good. I want to propose another sentence to you. You may be better served by parliamentarians, because the Minister will not speak on the budget - he will speak ten minutes to inform us and it is useful I think - you may not want to make your speech as parliamentarians, but to speak for three - four minutes on the matter that the Minister will speak and keep your normal speech at any time later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u167	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u168	So, Mr. Loverdo, you saw I overcovered you. Mr. Triantafylides, I'm sorry I had you standing up, you have the floor. I'll give it back to you with tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr President. The economy, Minister, has become its grammar policy. I want to see the economic and political relationship with all that we have heard this three-day thing. Its rules and constituencies are repeated again and again in public speech, but the economy is not an exact science. Economic grammar is a form of mythology, a belief in collective representations that sometimes apply and sometimes not. "The power of economic myths is their contradiction. Everything that they bring to light, other people are silent," says Eloi Laurent, an economist at the University of Paris, Stanford and Harvard. This came to my mind when I was reading this guru of the world bond market, Paul Kazakhstan, saying that Greece's net debt is only 41% of GDP, or 72 billion euros, and not 177% of GDP, i.e. EUR 311 billion. I do not know whether this can convince the Eurogroup of the surpluses of 2019 and 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at the most critical turning point in the course of exit from the monumental cannibalism, a critical useful mass of positive developments: debt, assessment, quantitative relaxation along with institutional investment tools is necessary and capable of overthrowing the climate of national depression that we inherited and enter into 2017 with a moderate smile of hope, belief that by struggle, participation, unity within the people we can change things, that abandonment and abstention are not the solution. We are at the same time faced with a Dedicated Opposition that attempts to undermine politics in immortal propaganda with a view not only to depreciating the government's work but also to the moral degradation of the SYRIZA and the Prime Minister. The political forces of "if you don't sign, don't come back" then dare today be our honors. We are living the theater of the absurdity of an anti-population that neither wants nor can it table a proposal to reconstruct society, institutions and the economy, and above all cannot be opposed to the government and SYRIZA at any level other than this line, the cheap demagogue, the sterile and barren impression. Maria Rezan's "So without program" became "So without vision and without argument" by Kyriakos. Society has to exist as a so-called political stigma of political criticism, an irresponsible hybrid with the demand for elections. They get apart, as the deprivation syndrome gets worse. The twenty-month deprivation of the chair causes turmoil of truth like the ones on which Mr Mitsotakis was served by Bulgaria, calling on Greek businesses to invest outside Greece. Citizens criticise us, they expect us, they control us, they pressure us. Of those who ruled forty years expect nothing. They know you and politically recognize you as callippies. They're not expecting anything, or maybe they're waiting. They expect you to return the loan and unharmed, 214 million and 198 million that were borrowed and owed to banks by the "housewives" of the New Democracy and the PASOK, money borrowed and owed to Greek pensioners, see PSI and structured bonds. Who agreed with the second memorandum on surpluses of 3% in 2015, 4.2% in 2016, 4.5% in 2017, 4.5% in 2018? Was it you or the reincarnation of Samara - Venizelos - Mitsotakis? Your unreliability has no limits. You agreed on this year, in 2016, 4.2% of the primary surplus, namely 7 billion, against SYRIZA, which was integrated into and reconciled with 0.5% of the surplus, that is to say 1 billion, you are, at the same time, talking about a reduction in taxation. You have envied the glory of the Wizard Houdini, greater surpluses with less taxation. Nobel economy: Mitsotakis. Now I'm addressing the government. We don't have time. We've got to cut off. Society's waiting for us. They're the ones who judged them. The people and citizens are angry, want, demand, claim and well do. They demand our own commitments to change their own lives, to become a reality. They demand that we run faster, faster and more efficiently, to overcome bureaucracy, pluralism, to subject all kinds of interests to the highest interest, which is the public interest. I focus my speech on three issues with three proposals, focusing creatively on my support for the government and the budget. The first is, Minister, the extraordinary support of the weaker. My humility as a hundred and forty-five SYRIZA Members, I address the ministers of my Government, since we point out and underline that there is a surplus in the eleventh month of the target. The surplus didn't fall out of the sky. Euros came out of the war against cigarette smuggling, oil, alcohol, from a series of forgotten cases, such as Lagard, Borgians, from the war against tax evasion, through the crossing of emblems and tax declarations, with the removal, as Euclid Tsakalotos says, of the voluntary taxation of the rich in the years of New Democracy and PASOK. All this has contributed to the creation of this surplus. It is necessary, Minister, to exploit part of this surplus, which has been collected from the non-measurable measures and revenue, which are beyond the objectives we have agreed with the lenders, as you have pointed out in the Committee on Economic Affairs. You say - I read from the Minutes - "The good thing is that whatever you win from these non-measurable measures you can use it. It gives you what we call a financial area." I propose and call on Mr Eukleidis Tsakalotos and Mr George Huliarakis, who know what battle is taking place every day - pain from what they are following, since there is no financial problem, to explore as government the exceptional ways of using the surplus of 2,5 billion euros to support the weakest, so that we can breathe back to vulnerable social groups and the lost Greek family. It is clear that beyond the numbers, indices, and so-called macroeconomic figures, it is necessary to find ways that are compatible so that positive signs in the economy and in the negotiation with lenders are captured in the body of a swamped and wintering society and to heal open wounds until the economy and recovery get ahead and give the first fruits. In the critical mid-term, until this happens, our people, Minister, must stand. That's our agony. Society needs to stay up in the medium term until growth, investment and the economy get ahead. Those who listen to me I want to know that I do not participate in any struggle of social bidding, social sensitivity. I know that many fellow Members, and not just my party, SYRIZA, share this anxiety. I'm not in the lead. I am involved in a collective process of listening to the socially weak, the unemployed, the homeless, the needy, because the joints of the social cohesion of the Greek society, if they have not been broken, are at their limit. I would like to point out by closing the sentence that our President, Alexis Tsipras, said: 'Don't forget who sent you in this House, which social groups you represent, what people you are calling on you to defend their interests, the unemployed, the poor, the homeless, the poor, the socially vulnerable groups'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u170	Minister, you have the floor for ten minutes. I think it's enough. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u171	Twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u172	Uh, well, I'm gonna bazaar, just like you do, ten minutes and we're watching.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u173	All right, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not intend to make a political speech or answer what has been said, whether we have taken the worst from the IMF and from the Germans who have been heard, or whether we will have primary surpluses by 2028. My political speech will be on Saturday, where I will say politically what I think and what the Opposition says. I will do that for a number of reasons. The first reason is that we are in the middle of the negotiation and my position is difficult. I want to let you know very much, but you understand that I have some limitations on what you can say, what you keep, what you say openly in the middle of the negotiation. Secondly, as in all negotiations lately, but in particular - I think - nothing in this negotiation before us is agreed until all is agreed. So various players put something on the table, but nothing has been agreed until we see the whole package. It seems to me that I've told you other times, that here we are, mature men and women are, to judge it when we have the whole package, the negative points, the positive points, what gives us air, what doesn't give us air, how much air it gives us. So for this reason, I want to give you a simple briefing on where we are and then we can discuss what ideas and advice you have. But I suggest that we have no controversy. If you think that the government has a wrong line, I would be happy to hear your opinion, that I have to be tougher on it, be tougher there, softer there. That's understandable. The position of counterpopulation may be to have some ideas, but beyond that I do not see the reason for controversy. The only thing that is an exception to what I said, that nothing will be agreed until everything is agreed, is short-term measures. In other words, the Eurogroup's decision on 5 December is final, these are the measures and start from now on. I will say two, three words about these measures. Actually, it's three if you want to look at them. They are the ones that have a normalization of bond maturities. There are reductions in interest rates. There are also some profits from a different solution - I will explain it shortly later - with the remarketing of bonds that took place in 2011-2012. There is another result, which is this: If you take these three measures together, you reduce the risk of Greek debt in general and so you have an additional profit that is more than the sum of the previous three. In other words, when the ESM says that by 2060 a debt reduction as a percentage of GDP of 22%, namely 21.8%, comes from normalisation, 15% - a little more - from lower interest rates, 0.3% from this change in relation to the rescheduling of bonds and 2.6% comes from the overall reduction in the risk associated with the first three measures. The first measure relates to the normalisation of debt maturities. This has two pieces. If you want to understand it, the average of the maturity of the entire EFSM block - the debt part that EFSM is about 28. Now he's going to 32. So, if you want, these maturations stretch, if you think it's a tire and because it's the average from 28 to 32, you have to do a lot of things. As you know, if you have many bonds, a large number of bonds and you want to influence the average, you have to do a lot of things to get to this new average, from 28 to 32. At the same time, because you're doing this stretch, you're untieling with a lot of the tops you'd have had in a few years, which would be a lot more than an economy could afford. In the second measure, the ESM wants to exploit the history of low interest rates. There is a small cost of a short-term addition to this, but I think that all economists agree that it is worthwhile and that is why the markets have seen this so positively. Now not to say why we have a history of low interest rates. Mr Pafilis can tell you that he has something to do with the historical crisis of capitalism and with the low expectations that we will quickly leave this crisis. Anyway, we're taking advantage of this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u174	Don't you agree with that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u175	I agree. I don't know if the SSM agrees. I thought you asked if the ESS would agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u176	Go pack with the ESM!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u177	We take advantage of the juncture to lock these low interest rates, which may be very important. Think of Trump really doing a very big project in the infrastructure. Interest rates may rise a lot suddenly. Three pieces exist in this matter. Some floating-rate bonds taken by banks to recapitalise will change them at fixed-rate bonds. ESSM's gonna do some swaps and we'll still have constant interest rates. Finally, from now on Greece will have bonds with stable interest rates. The third measure of the ESM is what I said to you is the result of the 2011 bond repo program, so that this money we borrowed we got at a low interest rate, which would raise 2% in 2017. Now this 2% increase is zeroed in 2017. That means a profit of about 230 million. Here I am opening a parentheses to tell you that the medium-term measures now being discussed and we have not yet decided can extend this beyond 2017. All of this needs to be taken as a package. People say, but what do we care about 2060? They become Keynshians in old age and say "We will all be dead in the long term". They're not right to say that. First of all, the relief measures are starting today and acting cumulatively. Their impact will be 9.1% in 2040, 16.3% in 2050 and 21.8% in 2060. This is the only result of short-term measures. The problem with debt is just a lasting problem and the fact that debt will be less then means climate change now. What the markets say is that if the payment is smoothly done, if what they promised in May 2016, which had not promised it in November 2012, i.e. no measures will be taken if needed, but measures aimed at the credit needs of the Greek economy, investment and investors will now come if they see that debt is more sustainable. That's a piece of the puzzle. I'm not telling you it's the whole picture. We don't have it. That is why I told you that nothing has been agreed until everything is agreed. It is a piece, however, that gives investors greater confidence that suddenly there will be no high interest rates, that suddenly we will not have peaks that will not be able to pay, that in any case the loan needs of the Greek economy will be below 15% for too many years and there is also a debate when it will go from 15% to 20%. I repeat that this is less than many other countries. That's what we want. What did we ask the creditors? We demanded transparency and a clear corridor, so that Greek citizens and foreign and Greek investors know that there is a solution to the debt so that they can invest without having surprises. That's a piece of the puzzle. This has already been agreed, it is over and we are now continuing for the rest. The second part of the puzzle is the political agreement on the second assessment. She's almost done. I believe that the institutions will be back early next week to continue the debate. The financial gap for 2017 has almost closed. I think the difference is 20 million, that is, there is no need for any debate. The budgetary gap is a little higher for 2018, smaller for the European institutions, while a little larger for the IMF. But there's no one who thinks he's gonna get stuck there.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u178	Sort of?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u179	Don't interrupt me. I think I'm trying to give you a policy. I'm not making any political comments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u180	About how much is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u181	I think it's not a problem. I give you my assessment that it will not spoil the matter for the 2017 and 2018 budget gap. I can guarantee that. There is finally the agreement on labour, where our position is that collective agreements must be returned. We also support the principle of prolongation and the principle of more favourable regulation. We believe that the IMF has no good arguments for this, it was not well prepared. I think we have a lot of support, and so for us, this is a top issue. I think there should be a debate here. If you agree, we will continue this line, that within all that needs to be agreed, it is also the proliferation and principle of more favourable regulation, as to whether Greek women and Greek workers should have collective agreements. Here's to have a conversation. Is that what you're saying? Let me hear it, if that's what you mean. So I think the political agreement will also be closed. So we stay with the two open issues that are the primary surpluses after 2018. I'll answer Mr. Voridis. I am not saying now whether we commit or do not commit to future governments on Saturday. I don't think Mr. Voridis would expect anything less.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u182	No no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no. Then the personals will start.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u183	No, no, that was funny.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u184	Well, inside of merchandise.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u185	Mr. Voridis is not mistaken for this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u186	You don't know him well...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u187	I barely think she's enjoying it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u188	Mr. Vorides will talk about whether he's happy or not. Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u189	But you interrupted me for no reason, and I had another minute to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u190	I left you three minutes more than the time we agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u191	I can stop here. Do you want me to stop?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u192	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u193	As far as the primary surpluses are concerned, if we are also under pressure from the IMF and from Germany, there is a disagreement with the creditors for how many years they should be of 3.5%. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] I have told you the position of the Greek Government. I made it public. We see that after 2018 a compromise solution that can help everyone is 2.5% and 1% to agree with creditors that it will only be for growth. Because Mr. Shoeble says the point is that Greece has no problem with debt, but with competitiveness. We should agree that this 1% that will be saved by this primary surplus will go only for the competitiveness and assistance of small and medium-sized enterprises, whether on the tax side or on the part of social contributions. This is the position of the Greek Government. There is the IMF position that we are fighting bi-front, and for you to take more measures for the Germans too to have fewer surpluses. I have to tell you it wasn't obvious, to me at least, that IMF two-front fight. I only saw one forehead to one side. We'll see how this changes. However, I think we are exactly where we were just before the May agreement. I told you, and then most players now want a solution. And just before May it seemed that there would be no solution for the first evaluation. All the newspapers said: "Save the first evaluation", "The first evaluation goes on in December" and on the other hand. I think we're about the same. I think everyone wants to find a solution. A solution will also be found for the primary surpluses, their amount and how these are to be covered. You know the Greek position. You know that we are not prepared to take more measures, to vote in the House now to implement them in 2019 and 2020, as requested by the IMF. And there I would like your opinion, if you support the position of the Greek Government that it is not possible for the IMF to have such a great deal of disagreement on the financial data of the Commission, the ECB, the ESM and the Greek Government and to ask for more measures for 2019 and 2020. Our position, which I have explained to EUROGROUP, is that there is no possibility of legislating such measures. And I would also like your support, so that I can say that it is the place of the entire Greek Parliament. It would be very helpful for me and the government and for the entire negotiating group, for there to be no sense of drama. We always get this when we close evaluations and get to important points. All players don't always say their last place. And so, I think if we all keep our temper, it will still be the same in the next few days for this negotiation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty students and students and two educational attendants from the Gymnasium of Larissa Gymnasium. We welcome you to the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is a request for parliamentary representatives to comment on the intervention of the Minister. Mr Dendias, Mr Loverdos and Mr Pafilis have been asked for the floor. Mr Tindemans, you have the floor, as a parliamentary representative, for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you said a lot in thirteen minutes. I have tried to keep a few notes in order to be able to comment on the one hand, but also to ask for further clarification. First of all, on the question of debt, ladies and gentlemen, you have indicated that we do not raise the issue of debt - or so they have seen it - and that is not to be dramatic. I have the impression that the government side is the one who attempted this. You have attempted - I have to say not yourself personally - to show it as some form of triumph on the Greek side. Minister, I had, as we all know, my celebration the other day. Everyone was telling me here "Happy birthday" and inclined, as you were kind enough to tell me. I would therefore say to them, above all, to 'incline them': add more to the debt reduction. And from what you told us now, 2060 may be far away, but you referred to 2040, if my hearing doesn't cheat on me, as the first year that will appear in some way significant. And you were also honest to say that there would be a little cost in the short term. The stabilisation of short-term interest rates will have a burden. That's the way it is. We, frankly - I tell you clearly - positively we find it. I wish you'd achieved more. But it is far from what you brought from what you said - I remind you - of haircuts, etc. And I must also tell you that the last thing we expect is that this will work as a catalyst for investment in the country. I wish that this was not the case, but I very much fear that if this is the magnet of investment in the country, in the government view, ladies and gentlemen, we have a problem. Secondly, after leaving the debt, you did not tell us exactly - you may not be easy or you do not want for negotiating reasons, and it is acceptable - what the budgetary gap you see for 2018 is.You told us that in 2017 the difference is at 20 million. We heard. For 2018, the Government was not placed. I can accept that this is for negotiating reasons. We'd like to, but from the standpoint of counterpopulation, know it. You have confirmed the demand for surpluses of 3.5% for many years - that I understood - and you also said that you would prefer that, you would be prepared to go to a 2.5% plus 1%. What I understand is that the government is actually leaving very promptly, firstly, because 2.5% is not at all a bit. If the government's perception is that taxes should be reduced, because that is what you said to Mr Shoeble - and you have done very well, and you have said so to him - I have to tell you this: we account for enormous responsibilities to you, but we also account for very great responsibilities to the European partners. The fact that they accepted the measures contained in the budget that we will be discussing on Saturday - then you will be placed - for us it is unacceptable. 2.6 billion, of which 94.1% relate to taxes in fact - for us it is unacceptable. It is unacceptable that Mr Shoeble, who, as you say, understands the need to reduce taxes - otherwise it does not mean that the debate you are having with him - concludes what you want to vote for in a budget. However, can you tell us more in this debate? For us, 3.5% for many years is a huge number. I must tell you this and you will allow me, Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u196	4.5%.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u197	4.5%. Thank you. That's what I'd comment on now. 4.5%, ladies and gentlemen - not to say fairy tales here - as was one year predictable by our own government, on what numbers he was stepping on? Do you remember? Let me tell you. For 2015, it stood at the growth figures of the economy of 2.9% - forecast by the Commission - and in 2016 growth of the economy of 3.7%. If with growth in the economy of 3.7% you cannot bring 4.5%, then you are poorly managed. But know what numbers he was stepping on, because this is a good criticism to the government at the time, and in any case, he stopped in 2018, which means that the government's commitments were for as long as the programme was there. That is clear and well-known to everyone. So do not come back and say every time why we 3.5% now go away, when you 4.5% for a year and, indeed, at a quadruple rate of growth from the one you predict. So now let's go to the other evil. As far as I understand it, Minister, the evaluation has not been closed. That's what I understand. In other words, you are not saying this with dramatic tones - and you are doing it very well with you - but what I hear here is that the assessment, firstly, has not been closed down by you and all the financial staff and I have to say quite rightly in the past that, if 5 December is passed and the evaluation is not closed, that is a very great damage to the country. The evaluation did not, therefore, close. And Agios Nikolaos passed, for both Saint Anna and St Spyridon on December 12th, and the evaluation was not closed. On the contrary, I understand from what the Minister says that the troika will come, which means that we will have no closure of the evaluation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u198	The old diary is 26.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u199	The Minister's on his way to the old diary.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u200	Here, therefore, despite the invoicing of many saints, the government cannot close the assessment. On the other hand, I have to tell you this and I want to be honest with you. You do it many times...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u201	Mr. Teddy, you need to finish this, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u202	Mr President, you are right, it is just a huge matter. You do two evil things. The first is your piruette on the left. Are you applying the most stringent austerity that the place has experienced and which you are horrificly applying, on the other hand, you are making marxist pirates to the JRC, addressing an audience and trying to tell us what? That this budget and you're saying it's a product of Marxist analysis? So, in a Marxist way, you're approaching the economy and suggesting these measures? I'd like to understand, too. I'm not an economist, but anyway, I have no intention of going to the psychiatric hospital. That's the first evil you do and you like it. In addition to that, the second wicked thing you're doing and enjoys most is that you come in a merciful style, which I think characterizes you as a human, and there, in the middle, when things are difficult, at the edge of the speech, you ask for the advice of counterpopulation. Minister, if you would like the advice of the Vice-Population, there is an institutional way of calling us not from the Step of the House. We're talking about negotiation. Invite our relevant department manager or anyone you want from us who has responsibility, keep the door informed and with the door closed, and answer our position, and what we would say or would do. If I may, you should have done that since the beginning of the negotiation and even before you take over, when Mr Varoufakis managed - in the way he managed and with the results he had - the fates of this whole situation. To come to us today, five, ten, fifteen, twenty, thirty, forty days before the end of the second assessment, yet far away from where the institutions are, and to say'say to us your advice', is not correct, Minister, it is not clear or correct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u203	Thank you. Mr. Andreas Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u204	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, by questions that Mr Venizelos has tabled in 2015 to you and you have answered him as Minister of Finance, I have the information concerning the PSI in 2012. I would like to say for those colleagues who have spoken several times yesterday and today on the PSI that, as you have rightly said, we had a reduction in the nominal debt reduction, a reduction that reached EUR 108.5 billion, close to 50% of the country's Gross Domestic Product and, as you have also accepted, as far as the current debt was concerned, a reduction that reached around 50%, if it were not exceeding that. You've said that yourself. You have denounced these and continue to denounce them. Also, the promise, the written agreement - a decision by the Eurogroup, which had arisen at that time about the changes in debt after the completion of that programme in 2014, we have it in front of us and can be consulted at any time. The agreements on these changes to debt were very important after 2014. You had denounced it as nothing, as a paper that said nothing. You have, in fact, argued that you would be "handling" - unilaterally, if necessary - the nominal value of the debt to a very large extent, so that the country would be finally exempted, as you were saying. In view of this policy, you did what you did in the first half of 2015 as government. You've thrown that deal into your basket, you haven't booked the program, you've done what you've done. Everything is well known. You are now coming, ladies and gentlemen, to speak and listen to your Minister and read the Eurogroup decision. I imagine that you have read the explanations provided by the ESS with its written text a few hours before we speak. These are published yesterday. You know that with the third memorandum you resigned from your high-level goal of'saving' the nominal value of debt and that this was confirmed by the ESM - read its text - and by the Eurogroup decision. You have also read - I think that the decision of the Eurozone of 5 December is a reference - because you say things here - to the fact that the states that have participated in the programme, lending Greece, are not burdened by the short-term changes proposed by the ESM and accepted by the Eurogroup and therefore, their parliaments will not have to enter into procedures for approving new expenditure to the detriment of their countries. These are facta, they're data. I believe we all know them, going up to this highest prestige, the highest authority in the country, public step by step, to say what each of us wants to say. That's the data. Minister, what are you coming here today to tell us? What do you add to what we have gained as experience, as data, and from what is said and from what is written in the decisions, agreements and explanations? Nothing! Everyone in his speech will stand on them. But what do you ask of us? What do you want us to tell you? At least, answer some questions as the procedure has started on your initiative. Firstly, we are thinking, Minister, that the closure of the evaluation will be done now, that is, on terms of the IMF - because I am speaking to other sensitive majority colleagues - is concerned primarily with work? Is this a given now, since the content of the agreement makes a specific reference to the involvement of the IMF? That is our first question. Second question: has it been agreed or has it not been agreed that, with regard to the participation of the IMF, we will sign as a country - will you sign - a new agreement, the second verbatim of the third bill of plus? The first veranda of the third memorial plus was in May, when you voted for the superstition, with the hundred years, for the public property and the others then. It's the second version. Is this reading the Eurogroup decision correct? Thirdly, surpluses of 3.5% for several years. I'm not asking you to tell me the number. I ask something very specific: Is this about 2019? It may not be relevant, since you have said ‘and beyond 2018’. Is this about 2020? I don't go to the three years, Mr. Diaselblum said. I ask you here: Is it valid for 2019? Is it valid for 2020? Fourthly, there is a fourth memorandum ahead of us from the Eurogroup's decision. I ask you to tell me where we are wrong when we support this? Fifth, is it true that, within this logic of a small parametric change - 15 times as much as the one we agreed on in 2012 - for the next few years, the interest rate from 1.37% will go a little bit bit more sharp, will it go to 1.5%? Are these true, or are they estimates that are unfounded? Finally, Minister, I would like to ask you this: medium and long-term changes will go after 2018 and, subject to compliance with all the previous agreements, and those that we have said here and those that you have said and will see in our speeches? You are the Minister of the private economy and of course public finances. The first part you forget. You forget that in your speech many depend on their behaviour in the market. You are the Minister of Finance of Greece. They're listening. It is not only those who are involved in politics - politicians or journalists - who listen to you and those who are involved in the business. What did you tell them today from the Step of the House? Did you tell them to be quiet? Have you agreed? Does the country have - good or bad - an agreement and in front of it a proper function or everything is in the air, as yesterday at least did your position of the Prime Minister also have on the possibility of elections? The opposition stands consistently and seriously. He's not talking about elections. He stands consistently and seriously. He's dealing with arguments. Remember what you have done, ladies and gentlemen, and be very much available to present your recent memory to Parliament, not the oldest. You, Minister, as Minister for the private economy, listen to the market, what do you say? Are you on a deal road or is everything on the air? In any case, something will arise from your speeches. And if nothing new arises for the Greek Parliament, give some answers to the questions, to know where you're going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u205	Mr. Palphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u206	No one's tempted! You know, Mr Loverdo, in addition to the markets, there are those who produce wealth, the workers, those who are being crushed today by the capitalist system. I understand the political meaning. But there are all these. And because too much is said and in a complicated way, and the world does not have the 'level' to understand, we will ask some questions: firstly, who will even benefit from this debt arrangement? Are the workers going to get raises? Are the pensions going back? Will unemployment be tackled with stable employment relationships rather than with the jungle that exists and the galera? Will the self-employed be rescued? Will the poor farmers live better? Oh, no. Who will benefit? The business groups and, above all, the banks will benefit. Secondly, success, which has been hailed by the New Democracy, even though it would like better, is accompanied by parallels, as we say in the Army. It's not 23%, living until 2060 and remembering it. Because it's become a joke now. What's there to do with it? It is accompanied by strict compliance with the Memorandums, all measures. Yes or no? The four hundred Memorandum Laws will be taken back, and how many have you added? Oh, no! That is a prerequisite for reducing the debt to that level that you are saying. Will new measures be taken? Of course they will. And let anyone who has the courage say that they will not be taken either by the government or by the New Democracy. Anyone who has the courage to stand up and tell the Greek people that no new anti-grassroots measures will be taken in this course of debt regulation. Not to mention in the air, and then I won't say a big word. To apologise to the Greek people and the Greek people to deal with them accordingly! It'll be accompanied by new, even tougher measures. They want it all! And you know it very well. And I am talking about the situation in which the system itself is in, but this regulation is also in place. Thirdly, it will bring about the release, as you say, of certain amounts. I'll tell you later about the primary surplus. Of course resources can be released. You know - we've told them - what parked funds are there. All this is well known. And so Mr. Dendias doesn't go to the psychiatric hospital, you know those who apply and support the entire capitalist system, make marxist analyses. Because that's what he's answering. Even Soros does. Because that's what they've answered. And for the crisis of capitalism, and why interest rates fall. From this point of view, that is correct. They have been said and it is not a question of contesting it. The question is about this. For this reason, the essence of Marxism is that capitalism is a system that does not go before humanity and must be overturned and replaced by the power of those producing wealth. So, then, any release of resources can be carried out - we do not question any recovery, even if it is anemic - will ultimately benefit the workers? How? Theoretically? Do you have a schedule? Not to repeat all of this. Do you have any plan to reinstate the losses? Which one of you dares to say we're going back, even in five years, in 2009? Tell me! What a serious economist and analyst from you can promise that with this situation and with this policy we will return to those of 2009, which were the few things that the workers had conquered. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Minister, as far as the primary surpluses are concerned - and I am addressing you and all the wings - is there a serious economist who, seeing the international environment and developments - which I do not want to analyse, since Nikos Karathanasopoulos said them in detail and I imagine that everyone, whether agrees or disagrees, sees them today - can say that the Greek or any other economy in the next ten, fifteen years can have a growth rate of 3.5%? Let him go out and say it! The least they'll think is he lives in the heavens! Can he make such a prediction? Is that possible? Second, what do you confess? You may say it more elegantly, but what you confess is that even the primary surpluses will reach 3.5%. We ask the question where they will get there. We call it 'blooded'. Is it or not? Who's paying for it? I'll see you tomorrow, too. Who pays the surpluses? You get it from the retired person and you've even reached the disabled. And now I am talking about politics and government, but also about the other parties. You literally crush them without mercy - the system itself - the one that produces wealth and get them from there and give them to those who don't know what they have anymore. There's evidence of this. So you're saying if we save 1%, where is it going? Logically people think they'll give us something. And we mean the employees, the pensioners, the impoverished, the self-employed. You say no. You're saying we're going to give it to growth. And because growth is more abstract, you say we will give it to improve competitiveness. And because of this - we understand it very well, but people can'squee' - it is not understood, you are clear that we will reduce taxes from business to small and medium-sized enterprises, as you say. But who are the small and medium-sized ones for you and the European Union? What criteria are they considered to be small? With two hundred and fifty workers it is small and medium-sized, but with two hundred fifty it may also be a monopoly or a monopoly annex. So I am finishing, even this 1% of what you say will decrease from what is required as primary surpluses, you will give it again. So objectively so is capitalism. It's not a matter now which it is. Why, what are you going to do, Mr. Teddy? Tell us now. You, as a New Democracy, will give it back to what you have taken? After you got into a bite! Ten pension reductions you made!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u207	Eleven.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u208	Yes, Diamonds, eleven. What are you gonna say? "Would we give them back?" What do we have now? Do we have the reverse?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u209	We'll tell you on Saturday.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u210	So, did SYRIZA leave for tearing everything up? You'll tell us in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u211	We're not telling you right now, don't come on Saturday.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u212	Are you going to tear the memos? Same! But, in order to be able - which will not - to recover the system itself, the same way is there, the laws exist. Otherwise, it can't be. Either overthrow or continue barbarism to the bottom or become a general war. Don't be beaten, because those who make the war are known. It is well known who wins from the war and who are killed in the wars.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u213	Mr. Palphie, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u214	So the question goes back to the beginning: Who will benefit if there is such a debt arrangement?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr. Paphie. Look, ladies and gentlemen, since the first commentator, Mr. Dendias, spoke eight minutes, it would not be right to speak to the others at all. But you must know that the other ministers who will speak, if that is the case, will speak for four minutes at the end of the year. It's not right at all. Please, let's pick up the interventions. That is not the case, and I would like to say with all due respect that there has been no comment in the Minister's speech. Politically speaking on the substance, and that was not the concept of this dialogue. MP Mr.Ioannis Kefaliannis is requesting a short-day absence from abroad in order to visit Germany from December 11th to December 15th 2016 guest of the party of the Christian Social Union of Bavaria. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u216	The House therefore approved the requested permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u217	Please, I would like to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u218	Mr. Mada, would you like to talk now or then?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u219	Then.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u220	We'll go back in the order that's been requested. It's Mr. Papachristopoulos, Mr. Mavrotas, and then you, Mr. Manda. Here, Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u221	I just heard the Minister saying that nothing is agreed and that the negotiation is somewhere in the middle. However, since we really heard Mr Dieselblum speak of nineteen different opinions, Minister, it was heard that Mr Shoeble spoke for ten years of prolongation of the major surpluses, it was heard that our French friends - I do not know if you are already confirming this information - spoke for five years with high surpluses. I would like - and I say this very well, because it is another thing that you want and another thing that you can - because you have only informed of the negotiation, and I do not want to go into another conversation, to ask: what is possible now that you are negotiating and what can we wait for? Because we know that now fatal on the 15th of the month there will be a sustainability report from the IMF. I don't know if that obliges us to have an opinion on these things. No, I don't know. I want to know. And know where we're going. I hope - and I want to say this - that is, I am not a bad option - that we are now making an effort. I mean, some people here have forgotten why we got here, how we got here, but that's another issue, don't scratch wounds. Let's see exactly what we can do. What has already happened is we all think it is positive. I think some people don't say it, but they thought it was positive. It is important to see what is going to happen with the surpluses. And I ask you very well, so how do you see this thing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Mr. George Mavrotas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Mr President. We also thank the Minister for his information on the negotiation and asked us to say opinions and ideas about the continuation of the negotiations. And here we have to say that this cannot be done within four or five minutes that we have here in Parliament. I'll agree with Mr. Dendia. It has to be done in a more institutional way, because I believe that going to the negotiation with a national line is much better than going with a government line, provided that this has been agreed. You said that the negotiations were not closed, that the institutions would be here the next few days by Christmas. The question I have to ask is whether, following the closure of the second assessment, which we are looking forward to, the next step is, in fact, integration into quantitative relaxation. To do this, we need a seal that our debt will be sustainable. But is it enough, Minister, for Mr Draghi to judge our debt sustainable and to join quantitative relaxation? If I am not mistaken 19 January it is the meeting of the European Central Bank that could, if the negotiation has been closed, consider our request. The third is that if the negotiations are not closed in December, within the year, in Genoa, do you think that the conditions for the second assessment will be more favourable before the Dutch, before the French and before the German elections, or is the opportunity window that we have? And finally, I would like to know whether, in the Eurogroup and in general in the negotiations that have taken place in this period, the issue is at all discussed by the revenue from the central bank's profits from Greek bonds, ANFAS and SMPS. Because we see in the budget that 1.7 billion has been set aside. Finally the estimate now is 375 million and for 2017 is 345 million. Are the rest lost, or is it still something we're negotiating? That's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Mandas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u225	I think it is extremely positive at a public level and in front of the Greek people that this debate should take place. I just want to remind you he wasn't used to other times. Somewhere else they used to be the deals.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u226	Why did we deal here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u227	I've never interrupted you. Secondly, as you rightly pointed out, Mr President, in this debate, which had interesting questions, questions were asked, anything was said, whether relevant or irrelevant. I won't judge it. I'm leaving it at the end. But there was a development I would say. At least in the Minister's public enthusiasm to listen to opinions, opinions and support or not to the efforts made by the Greek Government, I have not heard clearly - at least in some respects - what the parties say - and we still have a long time, because the budgetary procedure still has a long time and at a higher level - what the political forces say in relation to the reintroduction of collective negotiations, the expansion and the favourable regulation - we all understand what the government is talking about and the crucial issue of the surpluses, which we may say, I shall not say very much now, as I shall say, as a matter of fact, as a matter of view on the high primary surpluses that we are asked for. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Mr. Yakumato, be quiet for a second. You have a dirty voice, that's what I'm saying. So I say what we are doing, not to see how bad they are, but if as a country, as political forces, we have some thoughts on how to deal with this issue. Two colleagues, if I understood correctly, asked for something to be done at a more institutional level. I do not understand what they mean, but in any case something has been said. Putting it, however, in relation to what it says 'end in austerity' that all political forces have been saying no more than austerity since 2018 and then I did not hear it. I am waiting, however, for the next few hours until the end of this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr. Mada.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u229	Mr President, could I have the floor for a few minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u230	For four minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u231	Because they asked some questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u232	I would ask, however, that we bear in mind what our fellow Members also need to have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u233	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u234	Thank you very much. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u235	Ladies and gentlemen, I was very clear. I said short-term measures are part of the puzzle and it's not all. So you can't tell me and that's even if that's all. It is obvious, Mr Tindemans, that to see whether the markets will have greater confidence, we need to see the whole package. I think it's a place to reassure them. It's not the last word. The markets will decide when they know all the elements of the solution. So don't say PASOK did more or less. It doesn't matter, because these are just short-term measures. We will see exactly what the agreement is that will have in the medium and long term, and we will all be able, as I said, to do so together. The 2.5% proposal, plus 1%, is for competitiveness. But if you have heard me other times, and if you had heard Mr Triantafylides who spoke before me, we said that the compromise is 1% to go for competitiveness and what we win from the non-measurable measures - which we expect will be many in the next two years - they will be able to go for social purposes. This is the compromise we are proposing outwards and we are also asking your support. For your question, if there is a serious economist who believes that an economy in Greece can withstand - I would say many other economies - for a long period of 3.5%, I answer 'no'. Mr. Dendias asked me how much the gap for 2018 is. The difference with the Community is 100-150 and with the IMF at least 100. Not all of our proposals have been examined, because you know how this debate is being held. We are making some proposals, we need to see what these measures will be. So, actually, I think they're converging. The view I can tell you as a negotiator is that we had different meetings and we had successive shocks in this number. I do not think there will be any problem at this level. Mr Loverdos answered the first question 'no' and the second question 'no'. As far as the third question is concerned, there is no decision on the primary issue and it is Mr Papachristopoulos's own question. That is the basis of the debate. I can't tell you anything. I have told you what our proposal is and what we are pursuing. We'll try the best in relation to the whole package. The fourth question is 'no' and the fifth question 'yes'. I didn't understand the sixth question. And one last thing, Mr. Loverdos, my Greeks are not well known. But the fact that everything is in the air I don't think any other friendly man who listens could draw that conclusion. Anyway, whatever my Greeks are, I know to tell you the questions that are becoming good-looking to learn something or to contribute to something and the questions that are being asked about the audience to create impressions. Finally, I really did not understand whether you support the Greek Government at 2.5% plus 1%, if you say that we should not give up on collective agreements if you say we need to get something more about the debt. I really don't know what your position is in this. I think that's a shame. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mr Mandas, has said so, and we have time to say this, namely, whether we want to legislate further for 2019 and 2020. Is this the position of SYRIZA and ANEL or is this the position of the whole Parliament? That's what I'm telling you. It'll help me. It'll help the Greek government. You decide whether you want to do it or not.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u237	I imagine you know all about collective agreements and everything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u238	But you didn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u239	Mr Constantine Koukodemos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u240	Ladies and gentlemen, before we move to the debate and to our comments on the 2017 budget, it will be good to see some elements concerning our country's economic situation about two years ago. It is crucial that this element in the debate because by reading the Ministry's report, someone can believe that growth is out here and simply no one opens the door to get in, that the goals have been achieved, that Greece is exactly at that key point, which was found two years ago to give life to the citizens. But it is not, ladies and gentlemen, and you know it, we know it and unfortunately the citizens of this country know it too. Let us remember a few things about our banking system, for example. How it was two years ago and how it was today with the government struggling to get out on the market while the country had been tested at a five-year bond and at a rate of 4,95%. So let every citizen and we Members of Parliament, from any faction, think about what went through, what a triumph this country has been through over the last two years to get to today, which is also of great interest to analyse. First, the closure of the banks, second, measures for the period 2015-2018. Third recession of 0.2% in 2015 and 0.3% in 2016 instead of growth of 2.9 and 3.7, forecasted for 2014. I will not, however, stay on this point, which I consider to be crucial for the debate because I have referred to from the beginning of my position that the image presented by the Ministry is simply wishful thinking in the budget. Not that we would wish that everything he describes does not happen and that the goals and forecasts do not succeed. However, we have to say that all the planning of the Ministry and the Government to implement should go ahead with reforms, which not only go ahead, but have been completed, to see that new taxes, which touch the EUR 2.5 billion for 2017, are coming. And let's also stand on taxation because it was SYRIZA who was proclaiming that his aim was a fair tax distribution. So let us see taxes and social justice, ladies and gentlemen: EUR 437 million from the increase in VAT. I ask: Who is affected, the citizen or the shipowner? EUR 422 million from taxation on energy products. Who's affected? EUR 89 million from pay-TV and mobile telephony charges. Who is affected, the civilian or the shipowner? EUR 62 million from coffee tax and EUR 142 million from cigarette taxes. Is that social justice? Are these taxes, ladies and gentlemen, fair? Shall we go down to the indirect taxes? The remark belongs to the report of the State Budget Office: the share of indirect taxes has become even greater than that of the direct taxes. And now listen to who the social person of the government is: EKT's abolition, pension cuts in two million six hundred thousand fellow citizens, both from the reduction of tax and the increase in tax withholding, and from the increase in the health contribution for EKH to the main pensions from 4% to 6%. Can we talk about the red loans? Should we talk about investment or talk about the uptakes of the NRP? Ladies and gentlemen, society has another view. She's literally drained the stock of her patience. Citizens are exhausted. The margins are narrowing and the cost of hope you promised was too high. The padlocks on the market have been multiplied. The public's income was reduced by 5.5 billion euros. The country took a quick step backwards. We all know the country needs to come out of the economic stagnation. The only way to do this is immediate elections before things get worse. Of course, I am voting against the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Efstathos Giannakides has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u242	Thank you, Mr President. This government has become accustomed to solving issues that have been inherited by previous governments, issues that may be of concern to the indigenous republics, Roma, public procurement, and it is common practice to jeopardise the opposition of its own laws and practice, such as Law 4002/2011, where we were accused of a risk of "casing" in Greece. This law led to a contract with the OPCW of EUR 560 million for 35,000 "fruits" initially without any financial limit and without any distance being defined between shops. Our government has undertaken to resolve the deadlocks that have been created, and that is why the opposition has found a stumbling block in order to blame us on a matter that is responsible for itself. Another feature of counterpopulation is that it acted like no elections took place in September 2015 after the summer's agreement, while for the first period of governance SYRIZA - ANEL and for everything that happened in the summer he arranged for oil on the part of lenders despite the fact that the position of the most extreme circles was not to reach an agreement, but they wanted to get us out of the euro. And with these extreme forces, especially New Democracy, it is drafted to this day. The Civic Opposition and its political tails have created a narrative, which is not based on real and official data and data, but on the secret desires of the reputable Mr. Samaras and Mr. Venizelos. The narrative to this point goes well until 2014, but then the irresponsible opposition of SYRIZA forced the government of Samara - Venizelos to go to elections, preventing the exit from the memorandum and the return to development. Some, in fact, even talk about 7% of growth by 2016. To date, you repeat and defend the greatest falsehood of recent history, Mr. Samaras' success story, speaking of the inappropriate third programme of July, but without explaining why, since things went so well for the country in 2014, the government then closed the fifth rating. You did not go ahead because the lenders asked for a primary surplus of 1.5% for 2014. Finally, the year ended with a primary surplus of 0.2%, which meant that you should take additional measures of 2 billion euros. You also had to take forward measures of EUR 7.6 billion to catch the 2015 and 2016 targets for 3% and 4.5% of the primary surplus, while you know that there was no possibility of refinancing the debt from the markets after the end of the programme. You had agreed on over-priced surpluses, and the comparison with what the current government has finally received is obvious as measures of around EUR 20 billion are avoided. You have even agreed on these surpluses to keep them infinitely. You escaped from the government through the accelerated election of the President of the Republic, knowing that you will lose the election, as Mr Samaras had confessed in an interview on 5-6-2016, with an agreement to conclude the fifth review of the second memorandum that did not come out, as the former Minister of Finance, Gikas Hardouvelis, has confessed, in an interview on 6-6-2016, at the same time dismantling the allegations of success story. You left the funds of the country empty and invested in the most extreme voices of lenders and in the left-hand scenario, ultimately undermining not the SYRIZA government, but the country itself. To remind you, too, that you described the debt as viable and that instead of setting, you requested a viability certificate. And then you said, like today, that it does not matter to the debt, but that the reforms go ahead. We have seen your reforms: the complete dissolution of the social state, redundancies in the public and private sectors, deregulation of the labour market. From your reforms, of course, neither did either the intermittent private sector nor the distortions of the customer state, which you have built in all previous years. The same policy you promise of the future. Today you do not write a word about short-term measures and welcome them by saying that they were self-evident. But all these years, why didn't you take self-evident measures, but did you instead choose to destroy the micro-enterprises and insurance funds through the PSI? For you forget to mention the benefit to the economy from short-term measures, to remind you that these are at least EUR 45 billion without losing a single euro. You stick to the logic that for all it was the two-year SYRIZA, saying the negotiation of the first semester cost the Greek people 86 billion. It's a lie. Of the 86 billion, 54 relate to the refinancing of the old debt, 25 concerned the recapitalisation of the banks - ultimately only 5 and the remaining 20 are not costs - while from the remaining 12, 7 billion were directed to the outstanding debts of the Greek State, to the real economy, to a debt to the citizens who existed before the SYRIZA - ANEL coexistence. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the state budget for 2017, a leading process, which happened to coincide with the recent short-term debt agreement, measures which will ensure a reduction in debt of 22% of GDP. Changing interest rates are becoming lower and stable, regardless of what is happening on the markets, while the country's budgetary adjustment provides for a primary surplus target of 1.75%, significantly lower than that set out in the previous programme, thus releasing the necessary financial space for the gradual recovery of the economy and the country's return to fair growth. The budget under discussion ensures that budgetary balance is maintained, while also stressing the strengthening of social objectives for the gradual restoration of social imbalances. After all, it is indicative that the government has already been accused by the BSE government of attempting to redistribute incomes which has never been at the expense of the highest and for the benefit of the lowest. Our priority is to strengthen and shield social protection, support for the most vulnerable groups, reform of the welfare state. Ladies and gentlemen, as has been said, our aim is to ensure fair sharing of adjustment costs and the socially just recovery of the Greek economy. In view of the agreement with the lenders, the government is bringing in a budget with a development orientation. Our plan is to halt the economic recession by investing in the comparative advantages of the Greek economy and the excellent quality of scientific and human resources that our country has, by exploiting the new institutional framework for agricultural cooperatives and the social economy to support the rural world with a key point in co-operation. They are collaborative schemes and projects away from the clientele and party perceptions of the past, which led to mismanagement, opacity and counterproductivity. To this end, we must make the best use of all the financial instruments that we currently have in our hands: the rural development programme, the programme for young farmers, the development law, the NRP and the Leader programme.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u243	You're short, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u244	I'll be done. Ladies and gentlemen, it is indicative that Thrace was strengthened from 1982 to 1994 by seven development laws, while the region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace had a significant share in the development laws of 1998, 2004 and 2011. Despite financial aid and incentives, the region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace is characterised by explosive unemployment rates, confronting all the timely ineffective policies of the New Democracy and PASOK. We have chosen to work hard to verify the positive assessments for the economy, taking advantage of every potential and tool, every comparative advantage that Eastern Macedonia and Thrace have. And in this effort we know that we need to conflict hard with the pathogens and the established mechanisms of the past, with those who are truly responsible for the inefficient policies and the current dead ends of the region, with the populists and politicians who have, over the years, put their political survival as a priority, not the interests of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, with those who are investing in segregating society and increasing their relations with each other, especially with the interdependent forces of yesterday who are today seeking refuge in the neonazis of the Golden Dawn. And we'll give him this fight by the end of the day. And before I close, I would like to ask three questions to which we are still awaiting an answer from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u245	Mr. Comrade, you've been talking for ten minutes already.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u246	If it's in favor of collective bargaining...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u247	Don't you hear me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u248	I can hear you, Mr President, and I shall conclude. What's her position on team redundancies? I would also like to ask whether he accepts that no measures should be taken after the end of the programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u249	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-eight students and students and two teachers from the High School of Orvra Achaias (first Chamber). We welcome you to the Greek Parliament, children. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] My colleague, Mr Dimitris Kremastinos, from the Democratic Alliance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u250	First of all, Mr President, I must say, because the Minister for Finance is also present, that at least I, Mr Tsakalotos, consider him to be one of the most serious finance ministers in the country. That is why I am also going to ask some questions and questions which I have. This budget, as the Parliament's Budget Office gives us, seems to be material - so it describes it with what it means - rather than being a developmentist, as every country and every government wants. And I think the way to development can be done in two ways. One is the one that the lenders, Germany, all of them point to us, namely the mainstreaming, and the other is whether growth can take place parallel to the recession. That is a question - I think you know that better than I do because of specialty - to answer. As we know, the country's debt today comes - if I am not mistaken - to 175% of GDP, i.e. around EUR 330 billion. And all this, when we know that America had about 17.5 trillion dollars a year ago, and now they say that it is going to $20 trillion dollars - over 19 trillion dollars - and its new president estimates - I heard him in an interview with him - that at the end of his term it could be at all 23 trillion dollars. This means that debt treatment for America is not debt amortisation. Debt treatment for America is investment, investment growth. And that's what her new president will try to do. It will try, in other words, to increase US production and exports. Perhaps we should have moved from the beginning we entered the memorandum, that is to say on the parallel course of development. Instead, to this day we have, in my opinion, been following a wrong path that the current government has made it even more difficult. So, how is it possible, for example, to increase tourism revenues, when there are capital controls, when the government is forced - I use the verb - to place 24% VAT when it is forced to increase the VAT on the islands, even at hotels when the adjoining coast has much less VAT and does not have HISBIA, when the government does not provide benefits for the development of its tourism? And the most tragic thing - I know that and I tell you this - is that the Greek hoteliers who invested in the islands so far are making hotels in Bodrum because they have one in Kos and one in Bodrum. This is disastrous for the country. Instead of building hotels in the country, they build hotels on the opposite coast. And you certainly know that, based on the Bank of Greece's figures this year, we have had the highest number of tourists - that is what the Bank of Greece says - but we have had fewer revenues since last year. What does all this mean? Obviously, we don't have quality tourism. In other words, we have no rich tourists or we are not trying to have rich tourists, while Spain has exceeded us in records and tourism and revenues this year, 70 million tourists and revenues, which were, as the newspapers say, a record for the country. In other words, the wealthy tourists went to the western Mediterranean. Should we not aim for quality tourism? I would suggest that the Ministry of Development - his background - should in fact be a Ministry of Tourism, not as it is today or as it has been so far. Greece can develop such an industry. It cannot easily develop a Central European industry. Can we develop industry to compete with Germany - or with the Netherlands or any country - where they have developed industrial products that offer worldwide? But we can create on other islands infrastructure of the type Santorini or Mykonos etc. And advertise them. I mean Lesvos, Chios, Samos, Kos - they don't advertise tourism, they discredit it. We see that in figures too. In other words, when the American man sees what happens in Samos or Chios, will he ever come to do tourism, choose Chios? We're destroying our tourism alone. In my view, the government must realise that it must draw up and implement a specific development plan in tourism and, of course, in primary production, in agriculture and in livestock farming. The country must become at least self-sufficient in these areas of primary production. But it is necessary to design a technocratic, scientific and consistent design, because we are usually planning, but we are not implementing. One Minister's leaving, the other one's coming, changing the laws. That's what happens all the time. The government must realise that the mono-party governments or even governments with a small party as their help so far have not done anything. They can't negotiate with the lenders hard. You said it before in the parties all, saying: support me. And I get it. And that's how it's done. And that's how it's supposed to be. This support would, however, be much better if these parties were involved in the country's governance, at least for the period in which this great crisis is taking place, because it is not possible to believe that all parties are the same, nor do they represent the same classes, nor is it possible to govern them. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, but I must say that. What was the result? The lenders sought exploitation of all public property, at least for one century, from the first memorandum. They did not do so, however, because there were reactions from the parliamentary groups, particularly from our own parliamentary group, at least as regards the issue of the concession of airports, which we said at the time, if it comes, would mean the casus belli for the government's survival. They asked for it in the first Memorandum. If, however, it was a broad sole government, they say, it would be harder to negotiate. The lenders, however, achieved their goal. They pushed the PASOK and New Democracy governments to take the airports, the law could not come to Parliament, negotiations were held and, unfortunately, the airports took them. Therefore, it just needs such a government to deal with the big problems of the country and I would say that it needs a government of experienced and capable of dealing with the threats from foreign policy, because the risk is now visible. And it's not enough to make blows, parades, dress up military and watch us on TV. When the opposite coast has a spy satellite that watches what is going on within a metre in Greece, we do not have the right to make blows for impression. That's what the Prime Minister needs to see personally. I would say another thing: the Prime Minister must take a step, ask the European Union, at least where hot spots are, to obtain some more favourable treatment to VAT. The hot spots have been loaded, at least let's ask them for a VAT relief, so that they can rise, Minister, because what I'm saying to you is really. I am aware of this and tell you that, slowly, hotel investment will take place on the opposite coast and not on our islands. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, Mr. Kremastein. Mr. Michael from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, when the budget is being discussed, there are usually figures and data, I would say correctly. The general framework within which a state budget is to be drawn up, debated and adopted is, however, generally overlooked. References to the budget implementation tool in the state are also to be found. Why is that? Obviously, I am referring to those who have ruled the country for decades. So I put a few questions - concerns. Can the current budget not take into account that the country's debt, as a result of excessive lending in the past, is an exorbitant and, of course, an obligation to partially serve, given today's Eurozone stay? Can we ever consider the whole course toward excessive lending and not to worry about the political practices that led to it? I would say, just to draw the necessary conclusions, I would point out some of these practices. Is it correct to administer Community money from 1980 onwards, which set up new fireplaces, to create a new middle-class, but which led to the collapse of an important industry in the country? I mention, for example, cement, fertilizers, household appliances, fabric, shoe and many others. Was not this tactic interlinked with the next wealth creation through the stock exchange business, in short, leaving real production and investing in stock exchange activities, why not abroad? And how did problematic business owners find themselves, but with large deposits abroad? And why did past politicians do everything they could to hide evidence of these statements? Did they relate to them? Has the same management been repeated with the Marshall financial package, which details Paul Porter? He writes attributes: "The financial management of the Marshall financial package took over a group of bourgeois persecutors, black marketers of war, who carried money to foreign banks and were not at all interested in the development of the country", 1952, Paul Porter, an envoy of the US Congress to evaluate the implementation of the Marshall plan. Can it be avoided that unemployment from 8% reached 27% in 2014, achievement of the previous governments? Is the fate of this country, or is the social character of the economic elite of our country, which, beyond this era of the Middle War, has never had a national conscience, but also of the political elite that is associated with it? Does this not also characterise today's - let me say - 'Greek', which has a business in Bulgaria, the deposits in Switzerland, his luxury car with a Bulgarian number, but also the Greek flag in his balcony? So he went to Sofia to be praised by the Chief of Police? And one wonders, for this course that led to the current situation, is the Left responsible, or is the social struggles which the Left has often led? Is SYRIZA's rule over the last two years? Obviously, unscrupulous and false is to support this. Everyone knows who has ruled over the past decades. So let us reminiscent ourselves of all the things that have brought us here, in case we find recovery courses. But let us stand on the state mechanism a little bit. Does anyone really claim that today's state is a creation of the SYRIZA government? Who was appointed with social opinions still - I stress it - and in 1975? Who said, "I'm the one who sent you to dress him up and not count him," addressing the police officers for the appointment of the prisoners who didn't have the necessary stature? Who was appointed by branch? But let's think of all this as a story. Who then lacked interest in modernising and improving the effectiveness of the state mechanism, so that we finally end up in an inefficient state, such as most, if not all, confess today? They themselves are now being cut off for their weaknesses, the collection of VAT, taxes, etc. Let me refer to some of the current figures. Is it not true that indices of the economy record stabilisation with trends of improvement? Is it not true that we have a small reduction in unemployment? Is it not true that the previous debt arrangement, which everyone confesss to its positive sign, is not true? As far as taxation is concerned, I will take note of that. The Friedman model of the Chicago School is well-known: Very little taxation in businesses to invest their profits and thus create growth. Really, in which western country did this happen? Unless you are trying today to convince us that Bulgaria of the low, indeed, business tax is more developed than Sweden or other capitalist countries with more than 35% tax. In order to apply small rates of taxation, taxes must be collected at the same time by all. This requires an effective tax-suppressive mechanism. So what does the Opposition have to say today and especially what did he do when he ruled? And if we are all honest, and we do not add, as the businessman's tax, the tax paid by him, or the tax advance with the whole tax, then I would venture to say that we can end up in ways of combating tax evasion. Otherwise, few taxes lead to a simultaneous reduction in the social costs of the public. The last confession leads mathematics to a complete dissolution of the remaining social state, a view fully in line with the Friedman School. Of course, the social state does not mean private education, health or welfare, which has recently been proposed through NGOs. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude my thoughts by returning to the original questions. A view of the budget and the figures without placing us on the whole path that has brought us to this point and, above all, in the current context that we are obliged to move is incomplete. The avoidance of such a position, obviously, hides guilt from the past of those who ruled the country and led it to the crisis. Because I believe that Parliament is neither a confession nor a court to ask for convictions, but for consultation and political decisions, let us proceed to decisions and decisions which clearly cannot serve the conflicting interests. So the sitter, as long as he's there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, Mr. Michalis. Mr Gerasimos Yakoumatos has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u254	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give an answer to the previous SYRIZA Member. Because you are new and you seem not to know a history of Parliament, I should like to tell you that we burned the social minds on relentless Yiannis Kefaloyannis. And we abolished that, indeed, the shameful position of everyone who is politicizing. Today, however, Yiannis Kefaliannis does not live to burn your own "left minds". Who are these twenty-three thousand in the number assigned in 2016 with a left mind? Every day you read what is happening. You've made a party army. That's all we can understand. Ladies and gentlemen, parliamentarians are the best of the states. From what man has failed to invent for this difficult task of government of the people. But, while excellent, it has major flaws. I've been reading just one of these excerpts from the famous speech about the Republic of Eleftherios Venizelos in 1931 from this step. This great Greek politician, with such wisdom, condensed the majesty of parliamentary democracy. However, he also made a sad statement. He talked about most flaws. One of these is that we are being called upon this week to use ourselves to vote for a relentless, false and filled with fiscal invasion measures, which will plunge the country into even greater poverty and impoverishment, and in particular will distribute poverty, misery and inconvenience. That's the budget. A better model of redistribution of poverty could not be invented, Mr. Chakaloto. At the same time, the contradiction between your stated intentions and your moves is so intense that it tends to become provocative. You are talking about your desire for growth and jobs, but in practice you do nothing in this direction. Unemployment remains with one and a half million unemployed, one million Greek workers have more than six months to pay, four hundred and fifty thousand workers get less than 400 euros and in October we had eighty two thousand unemployment posts, the largest of the fifteen years. That's the reality. What's the truth? The truth is that the budget figures show that the left-wing political rhetoric and the supposed left-wing social sensitivity are once again completely void. The draft budget that we are debating today is linked to your prediction of growth of 2.7%, with provision for increasing private consumption and investment. How will private consumption increase by 1.8%? Do you understand? I wonder how this objective can be achieved when the government takes measures limiting individual and family income. You also impose new taxes and reductions in pensions and social benefits. You are predicting EUR 2.6 billion cuts. In other words, as long as the whole of HPAI is, you're cutting off pensions and social benefits. Really, how will consumption grow like this? Is it from the business enclosures that go daily and close all the businesses? You're hitting entrepreneurship in the heart. You're dissolving entrepreneurship. Do you really think that with this overtaxation at 29% and with these insurance contributions, can any business with which? Where will 9.1% of investment increase come from? I don't understand. Is it from the uncertainty and suspicion that you daily create on the Greek and foreign investors? Where is he? We've seen those who came too. We've seen both the D.C.A. and Zakynthos. Everybody's leaving. The budget we are discussing shows that 2017 will be worse than 2016. There are six time bombs here that you need to look after, Minister. You are ignoring the overdue debts of private individuals to the public who are EUR 93 billion and are constantly growing. Insurance contributions are EUR 26 billion, the EUR 117 billion red loans, the state's debt to private individuals of EUR 6 billion. There are "lukes" in enterprises. Private deposits of EUR 193 billion went to 133 billion, i.e. EUR 40 billion less. Not to mention that the insurance system is falling apart. You've broken all the buttons by hand into the insurance funds reserves. Mr. Petropoulou, when he is a 1.3 worker and a pensioner, how will there be an insurance scheme? How will he stand? From his base and from his birth it's disastrous. It's unsustainable. Go with your left social face, you claim you will give social dividends. Who? The people you cut the NSA 940m euros will give you crumbs? You must not forget that two million six hundred thousand fellow citizens have seen too many reductions both in primary pension and benefits and indirectly with 6% reservations from main pensions, from 4% to 6%. I will not say about the subsidiary, who have not been tired, but have been shaved 'SYRIZA'. There was more than 40% reduction in supplementary pensions. And let me finish, Mr President, with what constitutes the greatest threat to me. This country has learned to live with both poverty and occupation and hunger. He can take it! What cannot be tolerated is national humiliations. Here in Parliament I want you all to be very careful about national issues. You see how the environment is shaped worldwide and European! You see what's going on! We saw the referendum in Italy. Now we see the elections in the Netherlands, France, Germany and America. And all that happened to us was a failed coup in 'false sultan'. And you see that immediately afterwards the Treaty of Lausanne begins to be called into question. There is an outburst of nationalism, provocative statements from Albania - there has also been a whirlwind! - And Skopje. Also, we have the refugee. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] For all these tectonic geopolitical developments you must be very responsible and have a national strategy. The Foreign and Defence Council must indeed meet and we must have a single policy. This is not a partition. This is not 'we' and 'we'. This is where the 'everyone' stands. All Greeks must be united. Only then can we tell the "false Sultan" that here are the islands, here is our heart. I don't know what kind of heart she is and she sees the islands, but my heart is in Istanbul, Imbros and Tenedo. So we need to look at these with great care, with national unity and not everyone has their own time here. The national issues, Mr President, must be seen as an eyewitness! We need to have harmony and we must all be united together to face these provocative major threats to our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, Mr. Yakumato.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u256	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u257	What do you want, Mr. Michalis?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u258	I would like a minute, Mr President, because he referred to me personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u259	I didn't say your name.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u260	Mr. Yakumato, would you please let me handle this?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u261	You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u262	Thank you very much. Mr Colleague, he made a comment in your remark about when and how social considerations were abolished. He made no other reference to your face.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u263	You're wrong, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u264	Tell me! The Bureau has the comfort - and indeed relaxed - to give you the opportunity to make a comment. Don't tell me it's personal, because then we won't be able to hold a meeting. Here, I give you the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u265	Wait a minute, Mr. President. I must therefore say this: the long presence in Parliament is not a presumption and a guarantee of knowledge of history, the economy and other sciences. Others are learning this! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u266	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Olympia Telloridou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if one listened to many of the statements made by the Vice-Presidents these two days and did not know the situation in the country at all, one would conclude that what has happened in that country is the responsibility of the SYRIZA Government and Alexis Tsipras. So until we came to the government, we had a country that was prosperous, a country with high growth rates. Let me just remind you that in 2012 we had a recession of 6.6%. In 2013 we had a recession of 3.3% and 2014 was 0.3%. We therefore had a people who were very happy with his financial situation! But the truth is different. The country went bankrupt over your days. You've created troops of the unemployed. You've closed hundreds of thousands of small businesses. You've reduced wages and pensions by 40%. You reduced Gross National Product by 25%. And at the same time, you gave hundreds of millions of euros to ‘friends’ and ‘others’. At the same time you had a state of favorability to your parties. At the same time you put the country in a commission. You come today in the style of a thousand cardinals and muddy, and you tell us that you have the recipe to save the country you have broken up. The words "self-criticism" and "indulgence" are rather words missing from the vocabulary of counterpopulation, from those who have ruled this place for decades and have responsibilities for this situation. What are you doing today? Today you are once again identified with the oligarchy of the place against the majority of the Greek people, as you have done decades now. So, let us remind you that in your very recent past with the development law, for example, you have taken care of the vast majority of money, about 72%, to take it forty companies belonging to twenty people. So, let me remind you that you have made sure that these twenty businessmen have been fully paid back at the time that half a thousand small and medium-sized people, who have made investment projects and completed them with the previous development, have not yet been paid. But it wasn't your choices. They were choices with aiming, conscious choices, as you are consciously coming here today to condemn the government for the budget, and you are virtually identical to the BSE positions. What did BSE tell us a month ago when the budget was submitted to Parliament's committees? What's happening, he says, redistribution of wealth with this budget. And he focused on EUR 700 million for social income and raising expenditure by EUR 350 million for health, education and the social state. Of course, BSE did not have the same sensitivity when the Stock Exchange party took place. He never made a announcement about the redistribution of wealth that was done at that time, because it was done for his own benefit. So let me remind you that this has been done with the encouragement and tolerance of your own governments. He did not even have the sensitivity to talk about redistributing wealth when the previous governments have cut pensions eleven times over the past five years. You come here today, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, and you identify yourself with all these previous policies and move our fingers. You are unrepentant and have not formally asked for an apology for the disaster that you caused in the country and the people. And with great pride you condemn us for not continuing your own policy, that is to say to continue to protect the oligarchy against our people. We, ladies and gentlemen, are not celebrating the results our policy has had so far, nor even what has been done in the last Eurogroup. We believe, of course, that it was a step that was important and satisfactory. We are not celebrating because we know that for the average Greek the situation is difficult. We will have the right to celebrate when the Greek and Greek problems are resolved. The festivals that you set up with our so-called success story will not be seen, because we know that there is a lot to be done in the country, how the state needs to change, how the country must see all its children in the same way, how all those in need must be supported. This budget is in this direction. It is a budget that sees and tries to support the ordinary people, which is not aimed at the state-owned development of bests, but at the development of the economy for the benefit of the majority. With a society already afflicted, with opposing forces and the entire bodies of our people excluded, in this budget, as far as possible, the social element and the effort to stop social injustice. With him, then, we are all judged on our options. Are we going to choose the previous model of support for the few or are we going to try to create another way? Are we going to decide to be Members of the few or Members of the majority of the Greek people? As far as I am concerned, I am choosing the second and I am voting in favour of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, my colleague. My colleague, Emmanuel Synthrakis, from the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2017 state budget is cut and sewn to the measures of the great capital in order to come out of the crisis, to ensure high profitability rates, to speed up capitalist growth, while at the same time cracking the people with greater tax burden and reducing expenditure on their needs. However, it also serves the reactionary changes in the administrative structure and functioning of state institutions, municipalities and regions, thus facilitating their association with the business groups’ plans in critically profitable sectors of capital efficiency, through concessions and PPPs, favourable tax exemptions and other incentives. The municipalities and regions, the executives of the management parties, the CEDEFOP and the EIC have nothing to do with any popular institution or body and much more with people's needs. They are violently implementing the anti-French budgetary targets that have been baptized as a national effort to obtain the consent of the working people's families. They strengthen the repressive mechanisms towards the people, in the name of economic self-sufficiency, a process that started before a crisis, proving that both in the crisis and in the conditions of high rates of capitalist development the options are determined on the basis of the needs of capital. Proof of the increase in fees and taxes, the promotion of reciprocity - that is, if you want projects, paid - as well as business activity. They shall support the balanced budgets and the cut-off of the economic observatory in the name of the household. Containers of services and structures, children's stations, CIDs and CIDs - CIDs, abolish organic positions. They are breaking labour relations and rights, in cost-benefit logic. They implement the European Union's reactionary guidelines to strengthen the competitiveness of capital, to free capital for financing the needs of business groups, presenting them as the necessary reorganisation course for the country. The state funding, ladies and gentlemen, in the local regional administration for six years has taken away from me. For 2017, only EUR 3,18 billion is budgeted, a budget reduced by EUR 207 million for the three hundred and twenty-five municipalities compared to 2016. Moreover, it costs them 15m euros, taking over the cost of school cleaners. By removing the payroll of workers, which is EUR 1.840 billion, and the preferential benefits, which are borne by central self-resources, which are EUR 734 million, there are only EUR 400 million left for all functions in three hundred and twenty-five municipalities and thirteen regions. These constant reductions and the vertical increase in own revenues are the evidence that decentralisation, which you have all supported as revolutionary and innovative, is aimed at bleeding out people's households and exempting the state from the obligation to meet people's needs. It is another contribution of our people to the bloodshed for the life of the budget surplus, so that the urban state can supply business groups with more state revenue. This is the notorious reform of the local administration and the implementation of the revised "Kalikarat" promoted by SYRIZA. This is why municipalities and regions, municipal enterprises, inter-democratic networks are equipped with a new institutional framework. That is why they take an active role in the specialization of anti-population policy, act attractive to attract investment. On the other hand, local government budget figures reveal the rapid increase in revenues from fees and taxes. While there were estimates for 2016 of 2,041,000,000, they finally amounted to 2,274,000,000. For 2017 it is estimated that more, i.e. 2.317,000. This gives rise to intensity of the attack with extra fees and taxes, fines for the debts of the people's families under threat of seizures and even household devices, while remaining untouched debts of big-time owners, big businessmen from the violations of sanctuary, public spaces, radar brigades, debts of the JHA, other infringements. The Public Investment Project managed by the municipalities, which has been nullified, is also in the same direction. Only EUR 216,000 are the funds of the Ministry of the Interior, which are not entirely directed to local administration. From the funds of the Public Investment Programme and the ESRB for 2017, municipalities get just 1,404,000 euros. The main volume of funding for the new ESRB is directed at projects and actions that enhance the competitiveness of capital, placing people's needs on the margins such as earthquake shielding, anti-military, anti-nuclear protection, health-care infrastructure, school roofing, sport, culture, etc. These needs are neither eligible nor do they fit in the upcoming fair growth that the government promotes. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to achieve these objectives, more distinct roles are created between municipalities and regions in view of the State's necessary adjustments to capital requirements. On the one hand, municipalities undertake the planning and management of social policy areas, not, of course, according to the current needs of the people, but on the basis of the strategic objectives of capital, such as the opportunityal networks of poverty, the so-called volunteers, the COMEPs, the NGOs, the so-called social economy, which is intended to reduce the popular pressure, to create the image of a fake, equal, democratic participation of workers, and, in practice, to open new possibilities for capital with cheap labour. On the other hand, regions play a more central role in the development package by pooling resources on capital investment infrastructure, hierarchies based on growth potential and capital profitability. The JRC, ladies and gentlemen, has a completely different view of the management and management structures at central and local level. The foundation for us is social property in the concentrated means of production, the central design of production with an incentive to satisfy the people's needs, is based on popular participation and control from downwards, which is first and foremost structured at the level of the production unit and social service. The JRC does not stop fighting to cover all the people's needs, which is why it is fighting both inside and outside the House, in the local regional councils for the drastic increase in state spending and social services, the abolition of all business activities, all forms of local tax and indirect taxation, for the sole free public system in the main social areas of health, welfare, education, with full state funding, for legal and stable work for all workers. We appeal first of all to the working class, to the poor people's layers, and tell them that they have to organize their struggle here and now. Today's strike mobilization has shown that the working class, the poor people's layers are on a road to recovery, reconstituting the working people's movement, and that will continue much longer in the next few years. That is why we insist on the reintegration of the working people's movement in a direction of anti-capitalist, anti-monopoly to overthrow this policy with any appropriate - right, left, middle, centre, left - and the conquest by the people of their own power with a programme in favour of the people for their needs. On the basis of all this, Mr President, we are voting against this budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, the eighth circle of the speakers has been closed. Before entering the ninth, the speech is made by the Secretary of State for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Petropoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr President. About a week ago, the proposal for the future of social security was made. It provides for 29% of the pension supplementation rate, which is about EUR 260 per month. Of course, this is not a proposal that came from us. It is the practical application of New Democracy's intentions and hidden announcements, expressed by two professors, Mr Plato Tinos and Mr Miltiades Nektarios, which provides for a reduction in labour costs, limited to 10% of insurance costs. This is a proposal for growth, but without adding at least an explanation of how it is possible, if that is the case, to have growth? When about 30 billion of the pension expenditure is spent and therefore comes into the purchasing power of the Greek people, what will happen to the economy if this sum is limited to 10 billion? Because, obviously, when you talk about pensions of EUR 260, you are talking about a loss of purchasing power in this Greek people, which obviously leads to even greater social and economic disaster. This is the prospect, the hidden policy of the New Democracy. The fact is that the budget submitted by the government is not unaffected by the consequences of previous policies. And it is not the question of whether he is material and to what extent, but whether he really puts a stop to the collapse that has taken place all this time in the economy, society and, of course, in the insurance system and whether he has some foundations from here and beyond for development. And it's like that, as I say, because it's not possible, while you have reduced the state expenditure from about 13.1 billion to about 9.2 billion, to have huge pension cuts all this time from 2009 to 2014, to have too much, despite reductions and reductions in state participation in social security, an increase in insurance costs for civil servants by 100 million. This shows that the expulsion of civil servants to retirement entails a huge cost not only in human resources, not only in early retirement and an increase in the age limits at the low level in early retirement, but also in a high cost, which is not dealt with in a way that can be said to be in fact, in terms of development, in terms of employment, employment, social security and revenue. Eight hundred and thirty-three thousand jobs were destroyed during this period and about three hundred and forty thousand small businesses closed down. We're not talking about unemployment. We're talking about dismantling positions. However, the representatives of the New Democracy speak as if they were not here when all these results took place. These figures I call for are not just figures, but evidence from the relevant services of the competent bodies. Of course they accurately illustrate a situation that we are facing. What do we anticipate through the state budget? We do anticipate a deficit of around EUR 850 million less than before. In our assessment it will be near the EUR 500 million, because we wanted a budget that puts the unfavourable version in place and we will achieve - they are sure - better results. In our assessment this deficit will not exceed EUR 550 million. This is well founded, because already the revenue from the CRL and only the last two months amount to EUR 110 million a month. Therefore, when we had a maximum of EUR 80 million - in previous periods, it is certain that we will have such a cover for this gap and have better results. It also makes us optimistic that we see an increase in revenues in social security institutions too. We have an improvement in revenues in the IKA, which is around 5% compared to the corresponding period last year. It's close to 500 million euros above. So at this rate we will have better results, much more when in the OGA we have a little less divergence before. I will finish with some announcements about the budget. For the AAA we forecast in 2017 to have revenues of EUR 1,318 billion. Of these EUR 395 million will be given to social security bodies to deal with their deficits. We're implementing a law of the New Democracy government. He's resenting us because we're applying him. It is the law that has been in force since 2014 and provides for a division in a second sub-account of the AAGE - not for pensions - in order to cover deficits, to erase them in their perspective. We will have a surplus of 883m euros after this deduction plus 40m euros, which is for 'Help at Home'. And that's an account provided for by the AAA. It is not arbitrary, nor is it our management. We will have an increase in the cash surplus from the AAA by EUR 1 billion again, as we had last year. That is, in 2017 we collect a total of EUR 6.5 billion surplus in the AAA. It's not about breaking pigeons. You're telling us, Mr. Brutsi, that we didn't do a proportionate study. You do not understand that with what you say you are making it easier for those who want to cut the personal difference between the insured or you understand it and you say it to put more pressure on the Government for the IMF's future pursuit since 2019 to cut down the personal difference. We are informing you - and we have done so on other occasions - that the personal difference is weighted, agreed on by analogous projections made in the negotiations with the institutions. So they know the numbers. Stop saying that the proportional study was missing. A number of proportionate projections have been made, and on the basis of these, the agreement on the law on insurance has been reached, which provides for these results. In the next period we will have financed EUR 1.8 billion from July to September 2017 the allocation of the ones. The one-off years due will have been zeroed as debts by June 2017 and will give 835m euros to a hundred and two pensions forgotten over time by previous governments. This is the development policy that we are bringing to the Greek people and to the effort it makes and will have its results. Despite what was said on 20 December, pensions will be given to the OGA and OAU and on 22 December to all the other persons insured together with civil servants. For I would remind you that on the basis of a post which usually triggers dissatisfaction with our efforts, it has been said that a pension will be given less this year and that it will be given to Genarus. Well, there will be 20 December of pensions in the OGA and OAU and on 22 in the civil servants and other insured persons. Be well. And next year.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u273	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute. There was a reference to my face, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u274	Mr. Brutsis, yes, but he didn't have a staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u275	I want to contribute to the dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u276	There was a comment in your comment. Now, if you answer, we'll go to new comments. Let my colleagues speak, Mr Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u277	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u278	The rapporteurs and Parliamentary Representatives are being left with their prerogatives to discuss the debate. It's not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u279	Mr President, I am not one of those who is interrupting and intervening.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u280	I know. That's why I have the comfort of telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u281	Mr President, when the Minister says that Mr Brutsi asks for a proportionate study to force lenders through it to cut personal differences is a heaviest insult. That's what you said. Mr President, this is a major insult.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u282	It is a political observation, it is not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u283	It is, it is. Because at the moment the government sees in front of it the cut in personal differences, that is to say, all retired people, 25% of the main pension and wants to give responsibility here? And with an alibi what? What I am asking for is self-evident, that is, a proportionate study of the insurance company Katrugalo, SYRIZA, Petropoulou - I don't know, all together - the one who cut pensions by 3.1 billion. The self-evident thing is that opposition is demanded: transparency. And transparency calls it pressure in favour of lenders. It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u284	Thank you very much. We're entering the ninth circle. Mr Marios Katsis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u285	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, let me begin with an answer to Mr Brutsi, because I am the next speaker from the speech he has made. In order to believe you, Mr Brutsi, that what you are saying is true you - not yourself, but the New Democracy - should say that you do not want new measures after 2018. Secondly, that the debt was not viable in 2014, which you requested a viability certificate. And thirdly, that you are in favour of the national line for restoring the collective negotiations that you abolished and which are your own ideological hegemony in the field of businesses after the suggestions of BSE. So, in order to believe that you are not really patient with the national effort, you must say this from the Stepping of the House. We're waiting. The debate, ladies and gentlemen, on the budget comes at a critical time for the country's future, as there are new data that have emerged from the negotiation with lenders, but also a lot of openness in international developments, which are rapid and their outcome affects the country's progress in one way or another. The immediate implementation of short-term debt regulation measures is the latest development on this long-term negotiating path. This just means three things: firstly, that we have a de facto recognition of the non-viability of the Greek debt, which is a problem that has now begun and is being discussed. Secondly, we have the first time that creditors have in turn kept their promises and commitments. The regulation naturally comes as a stir of successful first evaluation, and that is why it does not include new commitments. In the next few days, the 2017 budget, which we are debating today, is adopted without new measures and with increased social funds. The framework to be closed by the second assessment at technical level within a European framework has been established. Thirdly, it means that the level of surpluses after 2018 and the activation of medium and long-term debt arrangements and the participation of the IMF in the programme remain open with room for political negotiation. This means that we have not given up on irrational requirements other than the already agreed requirements from the July 2015 agreement. And all this is a success of the Greek Government and they are instigating a climate of confidence in the country and making us out of the margin of Failed State, which we have been so far. This is the first time since the crisis began, which has led us to the disastrous policies of the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK and the deliberate cruelty and mistakes of lenders, which we now have with good hope that this programme will be the last. The 2015 and 2016 budgets are largely respected and forecasts go hand in hand with targets, revenues go beyond targets without postponing payments, expenditure is falling but not on the back of the social state, but on the back of corruption, the development orbit has already started with 2017 to expect a year of strong growth. But if we want to be serious, and we want to speak truths to ourselves, but also to the citizens, we do not all depend on the Greek Government, nor on the Greek people alone. The people of Europe every time they are consulted, express their displeasure about reducing the standard of living and about the austerity policies that have been made available as a medicine everywhere to overcome the crisis. For neoliberal elite without a trace of self-criticism the Greek people, the British, the Italians, the Portuguese, who experience the same thing as us, even the German workers who see growth begging, but have to take an increase of fifteen years all this discontent due to populism and must be punished. I wonder: Does that remind you of something, ladies and gentlemen of Officer Opposition, that? It is now clear and the dilemma is historic. If Europe does not change its course, returning to development prospects and with the strengthening of the social state, if it does not become daring for the societies, the Brexit bells, the Greek and Italian referendums and the 'no' of the extreme right block of forces will be made by warning, ending bells. The decisions on Greece and the outcome of our project are the precursor to the rest of Europe, just as the Memorandum policies implemented in Greece for the rest of the countries were a precursor. And we were the only ones to say that in the Greek Parliament and the people then. The political forces of Europe, the international community must give the whole and not half an opportunity for the country to finally stand on its feet. The immediate closure of the evaluation, the integration into the QE programme, the failure to take further measures are the necessary steps to proceed with the implementation of a productive reconstruction plan without the mistakes of the past that this past will never return, as it were. For what will it mean for the country and for Europe if extortion is demanded of 4.5 billion meters and 3.5 % surpluses for ten years by burying society? What will it mean for democracy in Europe if the choices taken will be to satisfy some Christian-society MPs and some supranational technocrats who only account for the number of projects they undertake? What will the destabilization of Greece mean for the geopolitical stability of a troubled region? I directly ask the Civic Opposition and the other parties: do you have any position on all this? Do you dare testify or answer any of these? And what are you going to do about everything you want to do in front of you? For collective bargaining, to reduce the surpluses that would mean no new measures, what do you say? Questions are obviously rhetorical, because you are giving a unique answer. Powerlessness, let us be in power and a fire mixed up. If the Samara - Venizelos government continued, whose main executive was your President, Mr Mitsotakis, these questions would not even exist. Quite simply, the debt would not be reduced, because it would be sustainable, the surpluses would be 4.5% by 2030 with extermination measures and the working middle age would have been consolidated. The reason that all this is being discussed so far is because in January 2015 there was a political change in the country and we escaped from the nightmare. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the budget a little bit. With the budget under discussion, the credibility of the Greek economy continues to be recovered and the budgetary balance is strengthened, so that we can get out of the programme with society upright as quickly as possible. Most of the figures have been covered by previous ministers, but also by fellow Members. I would like to explain with simple, very simple words what all this means to our fellow citizens. For the new year, we have the new insurance and tax system which, despite certain injustices, such as the CSCE and the increase in indirect taxes that have been made to be diffuse, contains cumulative reductions for large portions of professional classes, especially for the young scientists I am, but also for our weakest fellow citizens. That is why BSE and the New Democracy are talking about violent redistribution. We welcome it as a point. We also have an increase in spending on education of 15.6% compared with the previous government's medium-term and 5.3% compared with last year. So, this year, we managed to open all schools in time without gaps and hire thousands of substitutes and more special education teachers from the beginning. We are planning even more in the fields of research and innovation, which is a very basic component of our policy to return to the minds that have left abroad. For health we have essentially maintained last year's increased budget but also additional costs that have enabled us to raise the national health system under way. In my area, in Thesprotia, we hired permanent and subsidiary staff after eight years in missing specialties for years. We got ambulances, built logistics infrastructures that were out of operation and sent people to private individuals without payment. For social protection we have 760 million for the social solidarity system that extends a protection net to non-subsidy-free. We have 100 million to support weak borrowers from the state. Finally, I left the funds for public investment with national and co-financed resources, which are increased compared with last year. Thus, large roads, Ionian roads and E65, with reduced costs to contractors, are being completed. They are development projects that offer jobs and put the continent and the Thesprotia that I represent at the centre. There are funds for infrastructure projects and national resources and for regions that upgrade local communities that operate multiplierly for the economy. In conclusion, with the conviction that this year's budget, like that of 2016, will be implemented properly and will be disproved again by those who are investing in failure, I call on you to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u287	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u288	Minister, do you want to comment?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u289	No, it's not a commentary, it's something that's come up. I would just like the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u290	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u291	I have been asked many colleagues and colleagues about how to close the 2018 gap and an issue has been raised how to close this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u292	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u293	I said that it was about 150, if you remember, with the IMF, a little bit more with the European institutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u294	Two hundred fifty.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u295	We had a big list that the institutions and we were suggesting on how to close this. On that list, the sailors' contributions were also made. I must tell you that we will never approve this, we will never propose it, and I can tell you with all certainty that the budget for 2017 and 2018 will be closed without any increase in the seafarers' social contributions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u296	It is useful to note and update.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u297	To make a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u298	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u299	Ladies and gentlemen, would you like something? Please ask me why. If that's possible! Mr. Brutsi, would you like something?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u300	Obviously, we welcome what the Minister said, because it is a tabled position of the New Democracy, at the edge of the speech said that it is for insurance contributions. It's for the special tax scheme, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u301	Change in income tax.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u302	It's like the two colleagues say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u303	In any case, the information you have given is useful.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u304	It's the tax. I was wrong. As you say, it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u305	It's positive. Thank you. My colleague, Mrs Fotini Arabaji, from the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u306	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in last year's budget, the government tried to correct the disastrous policy it pursued in the first half of its administration, when it was culminating in memoranda and debts in a crescendo of ignorance and populism. This year's budget is even worse, not only because the government has learned nothing from its mistakes, but also because it celebrates misery and impoverishment for all Greeks through the pages of this black budget. It is the budget of absolute irrationality, absolute falsehood, the budget which imposes a number of billions of taxes, which strangles entrepreneurship, development, private initiative. It is ironic that, if it does not cause the public feeling, that all the optimistic forecasts of this budget are linked to the realisation of the reforms and the prediction of growth, the one that will save us from the new measures and the 'cutter' by increasing investment. Reforms and investments by whom? From the government who fought them with furiousness and where its ministers were conspiring who first will undermine them. It is clear that you do not believe in entrepreneurship or private initiative or development or investment. You live on the road of European policies, while your soul and heart are in the visions and policies of Madour and Castle. That's why every sector of productive economy in the country broke up. Two pillars of development have the Greek economy: tourism and primary production. You both fought them and fought them in a rabies way. In tourism you did everything you could to clean him up from his acquired potential. You over-taxed the sector, abolishing the islands, running the refugee - immigration crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u307	Madam Colleague...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u308	And I am pleased that the Minister says that he enjoys the decade's record in reducing revenues on tourism recorded by the Bank of Greece. Minister, it is a decade's drop in valuable revenue. But there, where you kept the total fraud, it was in the country's agri-foodstuffs world by increasing taxation from 13% to 22% to 45%, by taxing agricultural subsidies from the first euro, by increasing the tax advance to 100%. And because I have heard Mr Apostle say that the Prime Minister has fully made his commitments to farmers and because I have heard Mr Apostle and the colleague who is now complaining that 95% of the farmers will get back the payment and they will not pay any tax, just to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that from the new definition of a professional farmer who, of course, you voted, there are hundreds of thousands of farmers who lose the definition of a professional farmer, are regarded as heterogeneous and are taxed from the first euro. You have produced the cost of production from the increase in VAT, of course, in agricultural supplies and services from 13% to 24%, with the abolition of excise duty on diesel. A breath, ladies and gentlemen, EUR 130 to 160 million for the rural world, in order to compete with his European colleagues, with your condemnation, as Pierre Moscovisi reveals, has cut it'surgical'. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Fotini Arabatzis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And you are doing the work, of course, with the rises in oil traffic, further evaporating production costs and directly putting against the primary sector, against industry, against households who will see increases in basic products and services raised. And, of course, the heavy burden of the budgetary adjustment that farmers have to bear is supplemented by their insurance, EUR 188 million more insurance contributions for the period 2016-2018. Meanwhile, you have the courage to cut 60% of pensioners' pensions, who, to survive, cultivate the five fields at their disposal. At the same time, of course, where your obsession with taxes is increasingly two years away now, valuable EU funds amounting to EUR 4.7 billion - EUR 6 billion with national participation - the so-called 'rural ESDP' remains unreported because of your government's lack of independence and your inadequacy. Ladies and gentlemen, EUR 6 billion, at a time when you are caring for EUR 2.5 billion in indirect taxes on all citizens, all Greeks with this budget. Uragua, unfortunately, our country, immediately after Malta to absorb Community funds with just 5.01%, when the European average is 12.5%. I'm filing it in the Minutes. At the same time as you are re-examined in development, and Commissioner Hogan is revoking you here from the Step of the House, you are destroying European taxes to save what you can manage the country's refugee - immigration. The French Mr Apostle decided arbitrarily and in breach of every Community regulation to allocate EUR 1,680,000 to support the dairy sector, exclusively to the islands affected by the refugee problem and to 85% of these on the island of Lesvos. Confronted, of course, with the fair cry of agony of all the islands of the Northeastern Aegean, the tourist economies of which have really been left to their mercy, you are trying to shut holes, depriving characterized and necessary money from the whole country's livestock world and only giving it to 5% of the land's livestock farmers. This decision, Mr President-in-Office, will be withdrawn from the Community, and then I will see what Mr Apostolos will say about the recoverys that will be requested. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, with your late pro-investment and development spirit, I would like to remind you of a golden prospect of growth and tourist revenues for Macedonia and for the whole country, Amphipolis, which you condemned with your political empathy. Prosecuting profits for the country as a whole, escaping profits for a county seriously affected by the economic migration of its enterprises in Bulgaria, for a prefecture in which unemployment is looming at 36%, and yet, unfortunately, it remains almost all of the outside social work programme, for a prefecture whose legal and remaining entrepreneurs are plunged from the Prosmahona mercenary portal by smuggling. It is what Mr Mardas would have stopped and even managed one tenth of what we received in 2014 to collect. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, Saturday night at this Step will be the Prime Minister. I don't know if he'll wear a tie or not. He said he'd put on a tie when he cut the debt. If we believe what you are saying these days about your national triumphs, then we will normally have to see him with a tie. If he does not wear, he obviously does not believe what he is asking us and the citizens to believe. In any case, I wish the Prime Minister, on Saturday, once again, to speak with a national language rather than with party screams, to feel the criticality of the moments and the open fronts that the country has, not only in the field of the economy, but also in national affairs. Otherwise, it'll be better to speed up the escape, which he seems to be preparing anyway. After all, your threat of elections, Mr Tsakaloto, in the yesterday's Eurogroup is a wish for us and a redemption for the country. In the country it is not worth the fate of social grocery stores and the poverty benefits you are announcing. It is worth doing, producing, developing, with fewer taxes, less costs, brave opening to entrepreneurship, with the agreement of the truth of the New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u309	Thank you, my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-nine students and students and two educational attendants from the second section of the Oberia Achaia High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Nikolaos Syrizas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u310	When am I supposed to talk, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u311	Immediately after.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u312	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot to be said. I will not make any progress, but I will try as much as I can to concentrate on a few things which, on the one hand, are distorting and completely distorting reality and, on the other hand, I will respond to key issues in the budget. First of all, I would like to say that today is a day of strike movement. SYRIZA welcomes the strike mobilisations of GSY, ADEDY and all mass trade unions, because, in fact, to the extent that they support us in having collective negotiations, to reject irrational demands of the International Monetary Fund for collective redundancies and other measures such as anti-corruption measures, they obviously strengthen the position and negotiation of the Greek Government. The question is what the New Democracy's position is in them. You support, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, collective negotiations, sectoral labour contracts, meteorology, expansion, etc. Do you support team redundancies?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u313	You put VAT on the Aegean Sea, Mr. Armalene, VAT on the islands.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u314	When your turn comes, Mr. Brutsi, speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u315	We've been through this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u316	And you have said that you will abolish him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u317	Have we started the dialogue now, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u318	Keep a hold, Mr President. Along with these mobilisations, there is another mobilisation that is evolving these days. It's the strike mobilization of the Pan-Hellenic Naval Federation. I mean, we really respect each other, and we consider the strike to be a sacred right. But after a week of strike, with which our islands have been completely dismantled, there is a serious social problem. I would really like to know, since the Minister earlier made a commitment that there would be no change in the tax arrangements for seafarers and the Minister for Maritime Affairs, Mr Kourublis, has committed himself and Mr Tsakalotos has committed himself before, what is the point of continuing such a strike. And I would like to ask, with particular reference to the trade unions who support the New Democracy, whether the trade unions of the New Democracy in WNO showed the same sensitivity when the provision on individual contracts in shipping went through. Did the trade unionists of the New Democracy show the same sensitivity when the arrangement on the strike mechanism was passed with a bill by Mr Varvitsiotis? Let us respond to these in the New Democracy trade unionists and then talk about it. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that the outcome of the Eurogroup was a success. We don't triumph, though. We consider it a success that for the first time there are measures and not promises, such as 2012, of measures that effectively restructure the long-term debt of EFSA, the European Support Facility.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u319	And it becomes sustainable.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u320	Secondly, it stabilises interest rates to 1.5%, and thirdly, financial expenditure will be below 15% for too many years. Faced with this success, opposition instead of doing its self-criticism, which had achieved nothing, only a promise at the Eurogroup of the end of 2012, continues destruction and destructive prophecies. We are opposed to these prophecies, but we are opposed to reality and evidence. We do not compare forecasts. The figures say: First, in the second half of 2016, we have growth rather than recession. Secondly, the revenues after 11 months of January - November 2016 are more than 2.4 billion. Thirdly, the 2016 surplus is greater than the 0.5% of GDP budget and creates social surplus conditions. Your last argument, that we now arrive where you were at the end of 2014, does not actually say that you brought the elections three months earlier and not in March 2015 - because the presidential elections had to be held January - February 2015, but you brought them in December 2014 - because you knew that, because the fifth rating had not been closed, you had two options. Or take tough measures to close the evaluation, which, in the face of elections, did not help you or sign the third memorandum, with tougher measures than we are experiencing at the moment, which again did not help you in the face of elections. Instead, what did you do? You escaped, the government of SYRIZA came out and found in the reserves of the funds money to pay salaries and pensions by the end of February 2015. Gentlemen of the New Democracy and the PASOK, gentlemen of the Opposition, admit that you failed as a government. You brought the country into bankruptcy and the memoirs. Now you are also failing as Opposition. You have no arguments. Your only arguments are destruction. We support a budget which will provide for fiscal stability, economic growth and a fair distribution of burdens and benefits. Financial stability and growth are confirmed by the current figures, such as investments, exports, surpluses in revenue, and a fair distribution of burdens and benefits is served by the social budget, as is guided by the universal application of the social solidarity allowance with a budget of 760 million, with 300 million more than the health, welfare and education budgets, with 100 million to protect the first home, which we voted on last year and 25% of the most vulnerable borrowers. Ladies and gentlemen, our Government has drawn up a roadmap after the summer compromise of 2015. We have implemented two difficult budgets, 2015 and 2016. We proceeded with the adoption of a series of legislation with a positive main features. We have voted for an insurance reform - a cut in order for future generations to be able to get a decent pension. We started the upgrading of the National Health System with the upgrading of the EKAB, with recruitment to hospitals and islands. For the first time after decades, EKAV was created in Syros. The hospital of Santorini worked while ready to be sold to private individuals. We started reform at all levels of education and opened for the first time schools with books and almost full coverage of all educational gaps. We have faced, despite the enormous difficulties, the refugee - immigration with humanity and dignity. We started reforming public administration, and now it will begin to be implemented. We launched the battle against the complication. We have voted for the simple analogue. We started and started the constitutional review case.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u321	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u322	I shall conclude, Mr President. We closed the first assessment, and the second assessment is closed in any case. We turn the steering wheel of the country from the recession to growth and despite the catastrophes, at the end of 2018 we come out of the memorials. We hit the pathogenes that you created and led us to bankruptcy. With the hope of visible recovery and development, we believe that at the end of 2018 this government will take tax relief measures, implementing the choice of fair growth for the benefit of the weakest strata of Greek society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u323	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Independence Mr. Andreas Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u324	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I begin with an assessment - a phrase by Charilaos Trikoupis, which said that the budget is not primarily a question of numbers. First of all, it is a social and political issue. And as such, as social and political, if someone were to call me to describe the 2017 budget of the Government, I would say that it is a tax budget. And if I said so more folk, I would say that it is a tax-free budget, the second budget of the SYRIZA - ANEL. This is the second text that incorporates social costs from the governance of SYRIZA - ANEL, which has been loaded on the back of the Greek people and has led the country to loss of growth, to reintroduce the recession, to the tens of billions of outflows from the deposits, to the tens of billions lost by the banks' recapitalisations. Today, ladies and gentlemen, it is the government's duty to try, if a number of conditions are met - Mr President, my word is addressed to the Greek Parliament and the Government - to return to 2014 where the report on expenditure 2014, which Mr Juliarakis supported here, estimated it was a year that was closed with a 0.35% development mark. To go back to 2014, but, as Mr Koutsoukos pointed out in his report, with the overdue debts of citizens to the state of 93 billion and vice versa, the public debts to private individuals, i.e. the breath of the economy, should be of the 3.7 billion in 2014 to the 6.21 billion that is now. And because I made a little reference to the opposite of the public's time to the public, and I said 93 billion that that is what it is, I must mention that in 2014, ladies and gentlemen, was 75 billion. For this failure, the Prime Minister himself bears responsibility alone, but also all of you who, without suspension and without reservations, support his policies. And say it clearly: A failure concerning the country in 2015-2016 brings the signature and stamp of the inspiration and of the man who orchestrated all the campaign to uphold the vote of the Greek people. This man is the Prime Minister, a fatal politician who is now in the government every day, ladies and gentlemen, confronted with his demagogue. Why is Mr. Tsipras a politician? A politician described by demagogy in opposition and failure in the government. I would like to give an attempt to define the demagogue, because it is a condition that the Congress is using today. So let's see, judging faces, things and policies. It was not a demagogy of Mr Tsipras' policy in the years of counter-population, if demagogy is to raise hatred against your opponents, ambiguity about what you are going to do, equilibrium downwards, anti-capitalism, but along with nationalism and Euroscepticism, xenophobia - here is not your case, but it is your government partner - and extremist rhetoric against corruption, and so that I do not forget and transform nonsense into arguments, for example that we are being sprayed. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not saying these at random or are condensations of experience that are not on her feet. I want to remind you, because we were here both for the 2015 budget and for the 2016 budget and we have a recent memory. I remember the Prime Minister saying - saying that what we did was more than crime - was wrong, he said - and the more you look at him ruling, you think, of course, detracting from a saying of Churchill: "Never so few have caused so little harm in such a short time as Mr Tsipras and his Government." Let's go see some examples now, so we can see, ladies and gentlemen, whether I remember well or whether I exaggerate. The first example of the country's bailout programs, a country that went bankrupt and some people kept it as high as they could to prevent it from literally collapsed and bankrupt. Now you know what that means. It described them as economic programs of barbarism that would not be accepted in any other civilised country. Mr. Tsipras came with the "Varoufakada" to create conditions that forced him to sign the third memorandum and what he will sign or sign these days. It would have come out of the tsipoury, obviously - on the markets and with the duo, as he said, it would have made them dance to get back what had been signed and changed the European Union as well and afterward, nonsense calls it political tactics on the left. As opposition, remember what he said about work: he will support labour rights and broaden, said, the social state and as Prime Minister, he is about to release the collective redundancies, regulate them twice as much as my own, who was organizing protests from outside the offices and from my home and without mediation, without interfering with the Minister or other, to try to end the situation. Thirdly, he was talking about divesting public property, selling the silvers of the family and protecting them from the Prime Minister. And he came as Prime Minister to delegate the public property for a century with the third memorandum of plus and the measures you voted on in April and May. A great protector of public property! But that doesn't erase. That'll be ahead. Fourthly, it would ask the markets to lend us and unilaterally race the debt body, throwing out serious parametric changes, as I said this afternoon, of the debt we had achieved in 2012 and defaming the PSI, while, as Minister, in response to parliamentary control, it invokes the benefits of the Hellenic Republic through it. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the Eurogroup decision here. I do not have time, unfortunately, to reply to the Minister's reply to my speech. But if you read it, you will see that all the six questions I have put are based on other more, others solely on the text of the Eurogroup decision. I don't have time to bring it back to the debate. However, Minister, because we also have information on what you say and on what you are fighting, you are familiar with the phrase 'yes men, yes women'. This is the parliamentary power of the majority and the government's negotiation. I would also like to make a reminder. As a fake - Robin of Antipopulation, the Prime Minister assured the Greeks that he will be with them, that growth will come and stop the plundering of the country. The recession has come. What did the Minister for Development have to say until yesterday, Mr Stathakis, in his speech yesterday? It was invoked in the third quarter of 2016. Oh, yeah. If compared to the corresponding quarter of capital control and elections, obviously, it will have something more this year that the country is not in last year's "aircraft" situation in your hands. He is a Prime Minister of the recession, I said after his first speech in the House and he proved himself. You want me to say about fair taxation? You want me to say for the protection of pensions? Apart from what you have done and said here by other speakers, there is also the abolition of the personal difference. Those who know, since 2018 this is an amount of about EUR 200 for the main pensions. You've signed it and you're still setting it up in detail. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the moral advantage after the history of the media, the phrase that comes to my mind, when I hear you, is a hero of the Greek cinema saying "spirit and moral". This phrase photographs your hypocrisy. But here, the reason we have is not just to make a recent story when Mr Chakalotos is in the Chamber. Mr Constantinople told you something yesterday, as I told your Minister today. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, listen to something. Now, in November, it was prepared and published in the FEK - namely it is published on November 1, 2016 - the new regulatory framework for gambling, namely fruits, telegames, casinos. This contract with the 2013 OPAP included this game, which you complained about and for which you yelled, etc. The conditions that had been established in our day, but also in your day, were conditions that were restrictive for the world, for the people. We thought it'd be one shop from the other two hundred meters, there'd be a limit for playing, a time limit to be involved, the card you play to have your VAT and so on. You came to abolish this. Because the State Secretary in the morning, who proclaimed morality and legitimacy, told me that this is not the case, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present it to you with one or two of my notes, in order to see his articles, those articles that you have produced. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'm not talking about you personally, Minister. This was purchased not by you. We're not you, that is, finding what's moving. There is no case for a person of the institutions who is in an independent authority in the Committee on Games to make this arrangement without being repurchased. Your office must not have inside it. You are handling as you can - I said - very serious issues to have such issues in your surroundings. So you need to see it. Mr Constantinople also told you and you did not react. Your Undersecretary came here this morning. We waited for something to say, too, that he was sensitised. He didn't say a word. He said you'd bring a toy law. Who said not to bring in? Bring ten. However, what was published in the FEK on November 1st contains a key and obvious evidence of corruption. You need to see it because it's not possible for any of you to have accepted "every house and casino" next to it. You can't accept that. None of you can accept it. ‘Graduated’ means the country. You cannot allow it to happen. We said it yesterday, we say it today, and we hope in an answer. I would like to say one last sentence, Mr President, with your permission, on a number that the Minister gave to the Commission when discussing the budget. He said of the surpluses and the fight he gives for 1%, which is developmental logic, because he accepted overtaxation. I should like to say to you that today a speech by the new Minister for Development is published which says that overtaxation or taxation does not affect growth. It's childish the mistake he made. Maybe something else he wanted to say. But 1%, Minister, for when is it? I didn't ask you general questions. I did not ask you to interpret Mr Diaselblum, the three, five or seven years of primary surpluses at 3.5%. I asked you: Does 3.5% apply in 2018? It's true. In 2019, will 2020 apply? Let go of it. And you answered me 'which, and so on' with fences. The answer is one: I haven't made it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u325	I said it hasn't been decided.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u326	Read the Eurogroup, its phrase. Now I don't have time. Do you want me to do it? Guys, are we here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u327	You don't have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u328	I don't have time to tell you now, but read it. It is a small paragraph of the decision - I think you know it - which says the opposite of what you say. You are not, however, the Minister for Public Expenditure and Revenue alone. You are above all - and I said it at noon - Minister for entrepreneurship, the economy and the market. People are listening. You cannot say shapes that do not match the functioning of the market every day or let supposedly move information or information about open possible elections. Minister, we are aware of the numbers. I call on Mr Koutsukouko to invoke your numbers and those who gathered them for payroll, pensions, expenditure, government operational expenditure, 5.7%. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no budget code from which you can easily withdraw money. Development is a word you're not saying. Only for the permits you said, but for which we spoke here, the bureaucracy, and after 2018 and half, which will be the first day of application. When the Minister of Finance does not have the development issues and is trapped in the government budget, then the economy is trapped.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u329	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u330	I shall now close, Mr President, in one sentence. We will vote against this budget. I told you last year that you have no opposition against you. Your government has the facts against her. The facts speak of you and your work. Here too, ladies and gentlemen, when there is sometimes a discussion with tension and shouting and saying, the impression of a majority is created. Yes, a majority that is here, but which is in disharmony with what is happening to the Greek people. It is a typical example of political disharmony that the composition of this Parliament with what the Greek people want and think about.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u331	Mr. Loverdo, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u332	We are voting against a budget for the distribution of false hopes. We are voting against the fundamental text of a collapse government, where its members and majority members are now learning that nothing more is being avenged and worse than a hope that has been disproved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u333	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fifty-four students and students and three educational sessions from the 5th General School of Patras. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Sotiria Vlachos from the Golden Dawn has the floor, and immediately after that, Minister Paulakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u334	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the budget submitted by the Government, it seems clear that it intends to impose new taxes, while at the same time seeking to increase private consumption by 1.8% and increase investment by 9.1%. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] On the issues of the barren line to remind us that the special status of the islands was one of the red lines of today's conflict, which he has trespassed, as it seems. Thus, since 1-1-2017, the inhabitants of the Aegean islands will pay 50% higher VAT, which will go from 16% to 24%, and accounted for around 439,000 euros from an increase in taxes on heating oil and fuels. The revenues from the increase in the coffee tax are estimated at EUR 62,000 and EUR 25,800,000 from the excise duty on beer. Gentlemen of the government, you must understand that it is impossible for an average Greek household to cope with the excessive taxation that you and your agents impose. The budget, which we are discussing, is clearly a memorandum and only to further pooren workers and pensioners will lead. The costs of wages and pensions appear to be reduced by 32.2%. The Government explains the reduction in the number of retirement leave due to the fact that public pensions are now to be paid by the Single Social Security Agency, the EPCA. The truth, however, is that, on the basis of a memorandum, there is a need to further reduce the pensions, the wages of the public sector-led, and also to reduce the special wages. At this point, I can only refer to the long-term negotiation at the Eurogroup on Monday 5 December, which, in addition to the debt issue, insisted on the package of measures to be adopted, which includes a reduction in duty-free allowances, a reduction in pensions paid and a reduction in public wages. So we see that the line taken by the government is clear with the line that the IMF and the loan sharks want to impoverish an entire people. With regard to expenditure on insurance, care and social protection, this is estimated at about EUR 20,000,000,000. As has been said, these will cover the payments of insurance funds, hospitals and social protection expenditure. In addition, it includes actions on social solidarity income, ECA grant and first home protection for overdue households. You are talking about protection of the first home, and lately there are first home auctions for public debts. Twenty new auctions are announced every day on the website set up for this purpose, while this number is expected to increase rapidly, reaching five thousand a year. According to the ratings of the banks themselves, each year they will come to the hammer about five thousand properties and despite the commitments that poor households will not be threatened with a first home of low objective values, failures cannot be excluded. In what way, then, are you trying to keep the person of social justice, when your actions are blaming you? With regard to multi-textile income, I will take note of this. The requirements of the lenders for Eurogroup were to save EUR 300,000 000 per year, which, with mathematical accuracy, will lead to a reduction in family allowances. Is that your pro-active policy? Do you intend to cut the allowance received by eight hundred thousands of third families in these lame times when our homeland is plagued by the line of illegal immigrants and suffers from the birth of Greek women? You should support multitude families in every way, and not lead them to this level of despair. As far as the heating allowance is concerned, it is unknown who will take it in accordance with the criteria laid down. The same applies to the income of social solidarity. Social solidarity income is expected to cover about two hundred and fifty thousand households living in poverty. According to a survey by the Hellenic Statistical Authority, 21.1% of the population lives in poverty, a figure that is translated into eight hundred eighty-eighty-four thousand households. Of these, 52% have no satisfactory heating, 40% lacks food and 79.1% suggests financial difficulty in meeting its exceptional needs. As you can see, there is a great difference between the two hundred fifty thousand and eight hundred thousand. What are the others going to do? But above all, with the anti-grassroots measures that you are voting on - because it is a tax on your policy - you do not understand that society is taxly exhausted. You are talking about reducing tax rates, but you forget to mention the enlargement of the tax base, you forget to mention the decline in income after the application of direct and indirect taxation. How, then, will the growth of 2.7% come to the country as you publish? This budget is nothing different from the previous Memorandum. The real conditions will disprove your expectations and you will have to explain to the Greek people. The budget is practically inappropriate and all it will achieve is to impoverish the Greek people once more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u335	Thank you, Mrs Vlacho, and respect for the time. Mr Paul Paulakis, Deputy Minister for Health, has the floor. Minister, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u336	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot go into the temptation because of Mr Loverdos' speech before the previous speaker, and to paraphrase a phrase, which says that so few people who had ever done so little have done so much wrong, have not thrown so much mud into the view that the Greek people have been demented. And I'm going to be specific. I feel obliged to discuss the 2017 budget to make an account of what we, together with Andreas, have achieved since October 2015 that we sat in these ministry's electrical chairs. Because when one takes such a position, one must not only say, it must do so, because it is worthy of office. It must not get value from the post of the seat that sits. So what have we received to dust some of the memory of some of them? We received a system in collapse, a system in disorganization, a system in decommissioning, a system in sub-financing, an EOPY built in the leg without an organization, which paid whenever it had money, whenever the insurance funds were given, a primary school which one of our predecessors, Mr. Georgiadis, took a week to evacuate and tossed out two and a half thousand doctors. We received laboratories that had no reagents, received surgery that had not been materially in use, received a price observatory that only did not perform control of expenditure, received contracts that had not been renewed since 2012, received hospitals which were not run and which had spread to God, to the heights - the years of the crisis and despite the horizontal cuts - the costs of support services, because that was where the misagent was more easily taken out, when the cost of medicines and materials was cut by the horizontal cuts. So what did we do? And here I have to say a very big "thank you" to a large part of the ministry's staff, which believed that "other priests came and other papers they were bearing" and backed up what we did, as well as our cumulative twenty-seven special associates and advisors - and me and Andreas - who are compared to the seventy-four of Mr. Vorides' time and the seventy-three of Mr. Georgiadis' time, who are pulling the finger on us that we appoint our own children and have filled the place with appointed. These are the real numbers, no matter how much they hide from the media that keeps you a light. So what did we do? First of all, the system suffered from personnel. The years of the crisis and of the memorials, from 2010 onwards, left the health system - because these are the real numbers and not the ones that each come out and says and throws away his barber - from public hospitals and health centers between the four thousand six hundred and four thousand seven hundred doctors and other staff of any category. Also, they left the primary school of about two thousand three hundred and two thousand four hundred doctors, the ones Georgiadis kicked out in a week. Total loss, seven thousand. Last October 1st, until today we are talking - and these are the elements and I challenge anyone to challenge them - in these days of closeness, in the war of lenders, with the agreement of last July, with a system to stand up to us, at the moment they took office from 1-10 to 15 - not generally announced, took office, they are in their seats - the following: First, a thousand three hundred and three ASs - are up-to-date figures, yesterday - secondly, two hundred and twenty permanent doctors from old notices that had been frozen and Mr Loverdos and the subsequent ones from him and did not appoint them, eight hundred people from the first notice of permanent staff - seven hundred and ninety-five for the accuracy - after 2009 became sixty-teenth, two doctors and two-five persons from the first notice of permanent staff - were assigned to them by the U.S.S.A.M.A.A. for nearly one hundred and two hundred young people from the U.S.S.S.S.A. What's that all about? It brings together three thousand five hundred fifty - one. And if I'm wrong, I'm going down. Upstairs could be. Underneath this number isn't. A great apologies, ladies and gentlemen, for over a year we have covered half of you in the past five, six years. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] A great apologies for both you and the WTO and all those who come out in a rampant way to say that we are taking people, but we are not meeting needs. I'm sorry we got three thousand fifty-five-one in a year when you've thrown out in the past seven thousand years. We don't stop here, we keep going. Take paper and write, because repetition is the mother of learning. In progress, in order to appoint and undertake a service - that is to say, the results, not generally and indefinitely - is 100 from the 4K and 5K of the previous October, two hundred fifty other ancillary staff, seven hundred from the 1998 CSCE - nine hundred fifty-four are for the health system - sixty-six hundred permanent staff from the second Ministerial Council of the Thousands of thirty-eight, who have come out of the provisional results using the rolling table of the previous contract, seven hundred permanent doctors who were also on the way to appoint the first seventy - eight hundred people from the CSCE to the Ministry and have taken the process for the crisis, eighty doctors again from old recruitments, which are also on the way to appoint and eight hundred people from the CSCE for the AMF programme, which has been made available. This makes us a sum of three thousand three hundred eighty people, who are in progress.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u337	Minister, you have two more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u338	I don't know if they'll get there.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u339	That's enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u340	On Monday, four thousand people are going to be called up under the OAED programme, with 65 million, 12-month contracts in the field of health - the first time being a programme of this kind - with full pay, full-time rights. Also, within December, eight hundred forty people will be called by the PHS of the thousands of five hundred and thirty - eight and another thousand forty - five permanent staff of hospitals, that is, two thousand. One hundred and forty-five nurses and doctors from the rest of the CEDEFOP ICES and two thousand posts for doctors will be called Genaris - February with PHS already in the process - has been officially announced by the Government - who are permanent doctors for the system. These are eighty - eighty - eighteen with secured credits and will work in hospitals. Especially for the four thousand of us have put a bet on the end of January, Flevaris authorities to be in hospitals. I should also like to say a word about the programme that we have managed through the NRP - the 140 million euros - for the primary health care of three thousand two hundred and two hundred people who will man age the local health units in sixty-five cities with two hundred seventy structures that will cover two thousand tragedies of urban people who have never had such primary care. Unfortunately, I have to speed up, although I wanted to say a great deal. I thought I had 15 minutes to tell you the truth, so I prepared my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u341	You're capable of evidence. Give it quick.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u342	The second part, therefore, which I would like to mention, concerns the financing of the system. Everyone comes out and flies every number he understands from the way he reads the budget. Things are simple. You agreed on a medium-term programme which said that the expenditure limit, namely how much hospitals and health centres can buy each year, was EUR 1,388,000 for 2014, EUR 1,404,000 for 2016, EUR 1,420,000 for 2017 and 2018. What we have achieved - from the negotiation we have not achieved! - it was 1,556,000 euros instead of 1,88,000 euros for 2015 and 1.634,000 euros for the remaining three years, plus that the 110,000 euros of the primary year were 150,000 euros. This, in four years, makes EUR 1,000,000,000 more purchase option for hospitals. That's what we can buy. What were you giving out of money and why this year's hospitals are not going to put a debt on? It's never happened before. If you did that, they'd be boring bells on the channels. Why? Apart from increasing the amount of the state budget since 1,025,000 euros you and taking it to 1,244,000 euros, this year, for the first time in history, the insurance funds, namely EEAY, will give EUR 573,000,000 in the public health sector totals. This never happened, nor at the time of the fat cows, when the lorries were going, when there was employment and they could pay the insurance funds because they were collecting contributions. We in 2015 managed to give 143,000 euros from EEAS to hospitals. This year we give EUR 573,000 - I repeat to understand - that you analyse: EUR 400,000,000 in the hospitals of the HSY, EUR 61,000 in the military - had deprived the military, you had not given them a franc in the last years of 2014 and 2012 - two eight hundred in the university, EUR 67,000,000 in the Papageorgiou, 400,000 in the “Oonesio”. The public sector has never been financed this way before. This shows the deep-class choice of the turn of funding towards strengthening the public sector, and we also paid the EOPY for the first time with full clearing, without putting a debt in 2016. And say another word.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u343	Minister, you've got one more minute. The rest will be said by Minister Blontheos tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u344	Apart from these hospitals took 1,20,000 euros of due debts and EEAY has so far received 650,000 euros. The hospitals have paid close to 900,000, 000, which have spread on the market, create new value and wealth - and that seems, whatever you say, because this is a development thing - while the EEAY has given over 400,000,000 euros. We have done much more, which, unfortunately, because I had scheduled the speech for twice the year, I do not have time to say it. However, we hit some abscesses called "CARBON", we hit some abscesses called "private contractors". It is no coincidence that two of the three decisions of the CSCE against governmental choices - the first one was the channels - the administration of CSCE and the inability to sign project contracts, which we have converted into labour contracts in private cleaning workshops, which we are prosecuting. And we would have achieved better results all year long if there had not been this decision from the SGP that delayed us in implementing some things that are currently spreading across Greece. It comes up with another day for the health system since 2017, along with the great intervention we have made for uninsured people and their free medical coverage. If we get caught by the wishes we have received in messages, we will not melt our bones with what happened back then and that shows the huge gap that existed. We're entering another phase in 2017. For the first time, the public health system is balanced. It shall also be supported by staff and funding. That's the truth. As much as you hide it and the channels and some trade unionists who lost the "marmita" and the client's tool to suit right and left friends and friends, the world of health feels it, the Greek people collect it, and that is why we will succeed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u345	Thank you. Self-restraint on time is needed by everyone. You finally said the speech the way you planned it. But it's okay because it was full of evidence. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u346	This is how I come, Mr President, to go to the hospital and have fun!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u347	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u348	Let's go on a trip to the hospital!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u349	There is also a real debate on the substance of the matter. After all, and before that, there have been excesses of time. The third Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastasia Christododoulopoulos, has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u350	Thank you, Mr President. The budget debate is taking place at a time of general uncertainty throughout the world and in Europe. I think this fact should illuminate our debate today. It may not be an exaggeration if I say that in no Parliament, which is currently, in these days, discussing the budget, will be voting for a budget that is redistributive, which is in solidarity with the weak, which is a development budget, because in no country in the world there is a tendency to overcome the crisis in such a direction. Because all over the world, neoliberal globalisation is dominating austerity, unemployment, poverty, and social marginalisation. The budgets of the countries therefore reflect this reality. We must not forget that. Only thirty years have passed since neoliberal fans talked to us about the end of history. What did they tell us? That history will be written no more, because because because of the market and prosperity there will be no class struggle, there will be no social conflicts, there will be no wars, there will be no crises, there will be no consequences for the people, so history will be abolished. At the same time, it has only been thirty years since they talked about the end of ideologies. And what do we see? Retract from history's garbage cans fascism, Nazism and nationalism. So much denial? And since we're talking here about controversy, about the thirteenth pension. And all these bounty fans of neoliberalism, those who have implemented and continue to want to implement neoliberalism, do not say a word about these denials, which have been celebrated for the last thirty years? How much was the history of these prophets finally avenged? How did he put them so quickly? Because at the end of the day these big words cannot be retained, because that is precisely why societies have learned through conflicts to develop and through the shots they can bring something new and not through the extermination of societies. So, in this reality, Europe is too, and we wonder why peoples are not inspired by Europe as they are, the Europe of austerity, unemployment, when all the myths, the myths of democracy, the myths of social solidarity, the myths of human rights have ended. All the myths of Europe are over, and we wonder why the people are not fascinated by this Europe. What are European leaders doing, European elites? All they're concerned about is how they're gonna replicate. Is the far right going up? Will he get them any percentage, will they be in danger? How will they deceive the people? How will they keep them there in reproducing the ignorance and keep them under their yoke? That's their misery. Colleagues and colleagues, the war in Syria is miraculous. This war has hundreds of victims every day. And the international community, as we call it, does nothing to stop him. Why, colleagues, does nothing to stop him? The war in Syria has been linked to Europe's number one problem, particularly the refugee problem. Why don't they stop him from stopping the war so we can finish with the refugee? Why? What is the solution to resolve the refugee problem as well? Isn't it to end the war? And yet, he doesn't want the war to end because they're selling the guns. Because the profit is above all and those others who produce cement and iron are waiting to completely undo Syria, so they can then participate in the big reconstruction and make more, extra profits from this whole story. And they dared those war victims to abandon them, who are innocent people, who are civilians, who are children. They are bombing them ruthlessly and constantly saying 'close the borders, not enter innocent and infect us'. This is Europe. And in this Europe, they constantly call on us to submit to what it says. So what does it say about the refugee? Let's see what it says about the refugee. It says that refugees can stay wherever they can except for Europe. Thus, they call upon some countries to become roomkeepers so that they do not get into the rich countries so that they do not get infected. And at the same time, those who have long learned societies in xenophobia are now raising the flag of fear of the extreme right to win again and remain in power. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the third Vice-President of the Parliament is being alarmed.]] My time is running out. I have a lot to say. I'll see what I'll do. So what happened? They talked about sharing responsibility. He finally ended up sharing fear. Depending on societies, depending on governments, fear divided. So much in there, so much elsewhere, that fear can be generalised and we all consent to measures to exclude refugees from the civilised world. So in Syria, the ruins in Aleppo break human rights. European culture is falling apart, everything is falling apart, hopes are falling apart. And then we wonder why people vote as they vote. I'm gonna try to give a little explanation. Because these peoples have realised that they cannot fight neoliberalism in their hard core, which is the economy and as long as they believe that in their vote, they are trying to defend their existence in a distorted way. That's what they did in America with Trump, that's what they did in England with Brexit, and that's what they repeat at every opportunity and nostalgic the nations - states, despite the two world wars and the hundreds of victims, because this nostalgia reminds them of some security they thought they had. These are the circumstances in which the budget is being discussed and we are acting as if we were in a small village, which knows nothing of it, but which will all be solved and settled, because there will be the elections demanded by the Qualified Opposition. That's it, so we are, with a little recipe, solve all the problems! And we say: Truly, this is the problem of Greece and the Greek citizens, who are struggling if there is to be war, what will happen in their neighborhood, what will happen to the economic crisis, what will happen to investment? You know what evidence says? They are 'parked' at banks 4 billion at a negative interest rate. Nobody wants to invest, and here we blame SYRIZA for not investing. Where, good, why don't they come? They'll be here later, where the New Democracy will come out, as they hope. They'll come running, as they'd come before! So there is a total debauching of consciences and perceptions. And, of course, we understand that because SYRIZA from the crisis, since 2012, has been the only party that has benefited and won three elections, it is natural that it has created a mental syndrome. It is only natural that he created irrationalities. But these too have certain limits, lie, distortion, forgery. Hey, they can't go on! So we're being accused of being retreat. Who? Those who voted for the third memorandum and have voted for another two before! They accuse us and move the hand and say "because you are so retardative, you give it to the lenders". While they gave nothing, they were known rebels from their birth! And now you say: This prank for how long will it be repeated in the Chamber of Parliament, and we should listen to it, like the Greek people, who knows them from outside and out?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u351	Please, shorten up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u352	I shall conclude, Mr President. Indeed, I too have exceeded the time limit, but what to do, I will say that and I will finish. Indeed, the political crisis that started since 2012 continues. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the parties have a role to play in the parliamentary system. Whether they are power parties or ideological parties or they are parties, which, because of the crisis, must be beaten up by a party which, because of the collapse of bi-communism, should rule. So what do we see? We see and we are accused of SYRIZA taking firm action and everyone is waiting for SYRIZA Members to leave. But they're not leaving. They're leaving the other parties. How do you explain that? Because the other parties cannot be reproduced as solutions that will complement the parties of power. Therefore, all this anxiety about what is going to happen, the disguises that are taking place, the divisions and efforts of centres to build new parties, to demarcate the post-SYRIZA period, I think they are projects that will stay on paper, because social representations determine which parties will be in the country and how long and not all the rest. And if SYRIZA were a compromise party, if it had become a memorandum, because it had to sign the third memorandum, it would not have this whole rabies attack either from the domestic centres or from the Europeans. We wouldn't have Shoeble today even remembered Grexit, asking for surpluses for ten years, we wouldn't have all the media hug to denounce us. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President of Parliament is ringing.]] Of course, no one believes in New Democracy and all of you crying about ranches in hospitals, crying for the poor, for the retired, who suddenly remembered all of you. And no one, of course, fears that these people will want you to represent them. They have known you for years, you are guaranteed and that is why they will trust you, but the point is that the Greek society, which has memory, and despite all the big words, is that there is a question of democratic legitimacy for SYRIZA, Mr Loverdos, tell us where democratic legitimacy arises.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u353	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u354	Maybe from the golf clubs? These, Mr Loverdos, I do not think they are even samples for the eve of the elections, much more for now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u355	I'll tell you in my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u356	There's no dentistry, Mr. Loverdos. By the way!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u357	Staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u358	Are you finished, Mrs. Christodoulopoulos?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u359	I conclude with one appeal: the rest of the Vice-Presidents of the Com mittee on Civil Liberties, I would ask them not to make a report, to make proposals. Can they? Can they tell us how many social costs they want for health, instead of telling us about ranches and how many materials they lack from surgery? Can they tell us what they want for pensions? Can they tell us exactly what they want for work? So speak to you, say the Greek people at last and leave criticism to SYRIZA and if they had promised the thirteenth pension. We're sick of hearing them. So talk. You who have been disguised by the terrible neoliberalism that socialism has fallen down, that the walls have collapsed, now what are you saying? Are we going well? Shall we go forward? What exactly are you going to do? These are the questions that concern societies. We're not a village, we're part of a world community and everyone's waiting for answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u360	Mrs Christodoulopoulos also took my time, because I am not going to talk, so I was so flexible, besides being a friend and a Vice-President. Mr. Yoyakas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u361	Ladies and gentlemen, after Mr Polakis' infamous speech and Mrs Christodoulopoulos' lecture, I would like to say five things about the budget. The winter, Mr. Paulakis, told us that in the health sector we can sleep in peace and if it was not the honor of medical, nursing and paramedical personnel, honestly, the health of the intensive, who is now in the morgue would be in the morgue. Mr Paulakis told us - and he is going on - about the recruitment of supplementary doctors, about the invitations to tender, which were from the past and are being implemented today, and for the third time he told us that the recruitment of the four thousand health doctors, one year after tomorrow, will take place, but who will, of course, have much better contracts. We are waiting, Mr Polakis, for a year to see these recruitments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u362	I said a lot more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u363	And a lot more. I cannot repeat your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u364	Do not dispute and do not interrupt. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u365	So the tax raid that the government kept in Greek society for 2017 was known since last May, when it passed a multi-brand plan with prerequisites for the first assessment: Two and a half billion new taxes with more than half of them being indirect. This is the one side of a harsh reality, entered in the 2017 budget, a reality that citizens are preparing to experience from next month by paying for more accurate services and goods for all, which are coming to drain down to the last drop of liquidity, low wages, pensioners and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and all those who are already on the margin or are at the risk of poverty. In short, you are punishing, ladies and gentlemen, those who say that you are protecting and punishing them twice. And that's the other side of hard reality. Because at the same time that you are loading and other burdens on their back, you are cutting the carpet under their feet, social structures and social benefits, you are reducing the cost of pensions and social allowances by 1,8 billion, 700 million less is only pension costs, and about 600 million euros are deducted from the ESA. You are, in fact, exquisitely baptising the 17m euros, which will be given to some former beneficiaries of the CSCE. It's really like you're going to cure cancer with aspirins. By adding 2.5 billion to new taxes of 1.8 billion, which are deducted from pensions and social allowances, we have an account of 4.3 billion euros. EUR 4.3 billion is deducted from the pocket mainly from the weakest, to which the government promises to give just EUR 870 million, EUR 570 million for the social income of solidarity and EUR 300 million for social actions. So, you get from one pocket the loaf with the bread, throwing crumbs to the other. This irreversible combination of taxes and cuts is enough to convince the most skeptical that the masks of SYRIZA's social sensitivity have fallen for good. The cloak of left social policy is an illusion, and the world is shouting now, but if you do not understand that the king is naked. A similar picture gives us, ladies and gentlemen, the figures for the public health system. Mr Polakis, 110 million less are foreseen for the year in the Ministry of Health's regular budget, 230 million less for pharmaceutical expenditure and 200 million less for the EEA State grant, almost 40% less. In fact, the Government says that this is due to the provision for a better course of the EEA's finances, due to the increased revenue from health insurance contributions, i.e. from the increases it imposed on the main pensions and from the corresponding reservations on the subsidiary, than that received from the pensioners. This, ladies and gentlemen, means that citizens should be asked to pay more than their pockets for services provided by insurance funds and public health structures, which are today struggling to stand up thanks to doctors, nurses and staff, because the necessary reforms in the field of health, whether the necessary reforms in the health field are progressing at a turtle rate, or there are still announcements and wishes, primary health care, hospital staff, computer systems, psychiatric reform and more. This is the social cost of the proud negotiation, but also of the reform deficit. Ladies and gentlemen, the experts are kind to say to the Government that many of the main objectives of the budget do not come out. But there is no need to be an expert to realize that the entire structure is based on clay feet. The most characteristic example is that the forecast for growth of 2.7% is based on an estimate of an increase in private consumption and investment. Does anyone really think that citizens will buy more when the money they have is less? Does anyone seriously think that funds will come with a government that puts trips on investors at every opportunity? Bad lies, the government continues to move away from the only realistic option to raise the pie in the economy, through investment, demobilization, healthy banks, support for dynamic businesses that will bring jobs and decent incomes. It is clear now that he cannot or does not want to serve such a strategy. Despite its rhetoric krone, as we saw in last Monday's 'Mini vatorlo', it makes it difficult to negotiate the country's position and raises the account it sends to society. At this borderline that things have reached, easy road does not exist. There's the path of slow flare that SYRIZA puts the country in. There is one of the sudden deaths who want to lead it to drachmas and other forces. However, there is also a step forward in restoring the country's credibility in Europe and the credibility of politics in society, and this is where New Democracy chooses, a path that will try to walk with all its powers when its citizens give it this opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u366	Thank you very much Mr. Yoyaka. Mr Hussein Zabeck has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u367	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing our second budget. In particular, the 2017 budget is a cut-off as it opens a new page of the country's governance guidelines. The 2017 budget consolidates fiscal stability, with a view to restoring confidence in the markets, while it is realistic and developmental. The positive rates that shape the forecast growth at 2.7% for 2017, in combination with the primary surplus that is formed at 2%, make us think that the progress of the economy exceeds the best predictions. These are positive developments which, of course, cannot be justified by the Vice-Presidents. When the previous government was committed to 4,5% surpluses, it is unacceptable to attack us to reduce the surplus to 1,95% in 2017, which we agreed in August. They are exposed when they say they could rule better, as the funds of the state with a deficit of 500 million left in January 2015. So we do not accept the criticism of those who have destroyed Greece, who have reached the limits of poverty, have signed what was protected by the lenders and are now avengeing the finger in the effort to reconstruct the country. The numbers speak for themselves. We have in front of us a budget with other perspectives than the management of misery of previous budgets. Our priority continues to be the social budget with the socially fair distribution of surpluses. After all, 760 million for the social income of solidarity is what they show. It is a very important initiative, because it creates a framework for civil protection in all areas of social reality. Social solidarity income means services, such as school meals and access to nurseries, allowance for citizens, free medicine and medical care, but also substantial help in finding work. Along with the promotion of the parallel programme, which already offered two and a half million uninsured health care, the socially fair distribution of the surplus on the social budget means an increase in health, welfare and education expenditure. For education the increase in expenditure reaches 5.3% or 15.6% compared to the forecasts of the mid-term governance of the New Democracy - PASOK for 2015-2018. What, then, would have happened to education if the political change had not taken place in January 2015? On the rural development side we see a systematic increase in agricultural GDP, as well as an increase in exports of 16%, an increase in compensation, with the main beneficiaries of farmers. The new rural development programme, which runs rapidly, strengthens the processing and marketing of agricultural products, organic farming, livestock farming and the training of young farmers. As was seen after the Prime Minister's visit a few days ago, our government has a concrete plan for eastern Macedonia - Thrace, unlike the thinking of our colleague from Potami, who obviously does not want to see it, but is consumed in a micropolitic. I'd just like a few answers to give him. Is it possible to invoke 12% of wage costs for the companies in eastern Macedonia - Thrace, while it is a measure against the rules of the European Union, which can be imputable? A measure chosen by the previous governments, without joining a specific development framework for the region, while they had not paid the subsidy since 2010. Then to which political party was my colleague from the river? Instead, our Government, in cooperation with the local chambers, seeks another viable solution on this issue. Also, on the issue of tobacco, we are accused of not producing tobacco, a traditional product in the region, which is the most quality type of aromatic tobacco and which hurts it. The reality is different. In the context of direct payments tobacco growers receive basic support and 'drug' as well as a compensatory one, while the two hectare cut was abolished. At the same time, we are in cooperation with the Minister to strengthen tobacco cultivation and through agri-environmental measures. In addition, a constant request is to cover the 'white' areas of the country with a digital signal so that all citizens have access to Greek television. The supply of satellite signals is moving in the right direction, and our position is to cover all 'white' areas, as we have pointed out with three questions in the House. If our colleague from Potami wants no coverage for the 'white' regions, he will say so, since he sees nothing positive from the government. Our aim is to bring out eastern Macedonia - Thrace from the castle of Europe's poorest region with the highest unemployment rates. We intend Eastern Macedonia - Thrace to become an energy and commercial hub of the country and of the whole of Europe, making use of its important geographical location. We will exploit and invest in the diversity of our region, because that is our power. The TAP pipeline and the exploitation of the geothermal fields of the area, which have already started, make our development plan a reality. These two priorities mean reducing unemployment and opposing labour force migration abroad. At the same time, the ESDP, as well as the Public Investment Programme of 6.5 billion, is a very important tool in our hands and in the hands of regions for the development of infrastructure and upgrading of roads and not just networks. The use of thermal tourism after the recent recognition of the thermal sources of the area opens the path of alternative tourism in an area that marines. The opening of the Greek Sugar Industry in the Thrace region also demonstrates that public enterprises can and must be supported rather than sold out, as was the case with the example of "SEKAP". Finally, the Leader programme and, in particular, the new development law that they will deliver within 2017 are financial instruments that are best exploited. The shift towards small and medium-sized enterprises in the development law shows exactly what we want to achieve, our support for the average entrepreneur and the provision of assistance for his further development. Instead of giving 45% of the total grant to 4% of enterprises, instead of garbing up the industrial areas of the regions, instead of proposing the development of the large and the closure of the small ones, we show another way for the citizens, a path of equality, a path to fair growth with the aim of Thrace in 2019 to be a developed area, a trade hub for Greece and an example of civil coexistence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u368	Thank you very much. Mrs Charas Kefalidou has the floor on behalf of the PASOK - DIMAR.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u369	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, reading the 2017 budget remains with the impression that it is directed at residents of another country. Some who don't live the everyday life we all live in, some who don't have first-hand image but rely on government narratives. Some people who see the nice round budget figures will believe that Greece is recovering and developing. Except we don't live in another country. They are lately assured of both very often rallying and marching in our country. We say we want growth. In fact, you're saying that you're going to get it to 2.7%. In order for there to be growth, as the budget provides, there will also be investment and investment should already be here. If he was here, we'd have succeeded somewhere. Isn't that right? It's more a good budget. It says that 2017 will be the year when after so many years of recession we will be able to make so much wealth that we can pay most taxes over the last fifty years. I am not saying that in the OECD report! This will enable the country to serve its loans and to enter a normality. To achieve this growth rate, the government expects investment to increase by 9.1%, exports by 5.3% and private consumption by 1.8%. How do you calculate this? Here's the government, let's explain it to us. How can we consume more while our income shrinks? How can our income be reduced, direct and indirect taxes increase, and we, in all sense, consume more? Tell us how! According to the rapporteur, the increase in private consumption will come - you say - from the decline in unemployment. Practically, it'll start raining. The government predicts that private individuals, unable to resist the charm of our excellent tax system, will be pushed to open jobs and hire people. Because that's the kind of story we're talking about! But because, obviously, these fairy tales are not believed by the government itself, new indirect taxes on coffee, cigarettes, electronic cigarettes, fixed and mobile telephony, pay TV and, of course, the rates of income tax are increasing in oil. The malignant, neoliberal, german german, sold, agents, and all we hear from time to time dare to disagree with your infallibility and say that the market is in a state of stagnation, the productive forces of the country are tied backwards, the investors are ignoring from any Greek project away. In fact, recently known enthusiasm, to which you have invested many expectations, has called investment in Greece "just anecdotes" and that the country, trapped in the rust of absurd overtaxation, is found in a universal strial without any development perspective. Evil dissidents say something else: even if there were a number of miracles, and the figures came out, the rate of growth provided for in the budget is not translated into jobs. In other words, the growth you forecast, even if it came, would only be based on taxes. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget is the law which bindingly defines the estimated revenues and expenditures of the State. It is the short-term implementation of a government budget programme. It's not an idea report. It's not a blessing. It's not a portrayal of the government's pious desires. This budget also achieves something else. It is a solution to an unresolved problem of humanity: How to spend more, without borrowing, while your incomes are reduced or zeroed. Once again the government goes on to view its hopes as facts and prayers as substantiated estimates. Unfortunately, the country is also on its way with her. Ladies and gentlemen, because in the last two years you have not done all you have to do, because you have been shaking memorials, you have abolished HPAI, you have been talking about a shameful debt, about seismicism, you are obliged today to present a budget which, in fact, is literally sucking the Greek medal. Instead of reforms, which you have signed and agreed to, you were the day before yesterday canceling the privatisation of the CCCTB. Instead of limiting the state expenditure, for which you have also committed, in addition to the army of postmasters, special and general secretaries, you are hiring surplus personnel to a known body, the ‘CITIAN INFRASTRUCTURES S.A.’. So to justify the obsessed Mr. Shoeble, who a few days ago restored Grexit's nightmare. Gentlemen of the government, you only took two years to put the country in a permanent memorandum and in a hundred years of foreign commission. This really is a great feat. It could be written in the book Ginas as a record of disaster time. That's how you'll stay in history. As the government whose destructive action has broken all the records! Your 2017 budget is not coming out and you know it very well. He's a fake, even in the lies of the analgesic and without any social signs. I conclude with the words of one of your favourite journalists who last Sunday were "in the handkerchiefs", which I am returning to you in full: "You have been having dreams to end up in terrible nightmares. You don't dare go on the road without your guard. You have made an entire people an enemy." Well, that's exactly your budget. It's a dream bubble, which once broken shows up a terrible nightmare. That is why we are not voting for him, and that is why the Democratic Reconstitution all this time opposes a budget that you know very well that it cannot be implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u370	Thank you. Mrs. Hara Kafantaris has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u371	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in our Parliamentary Republic, it is customary and it is legitimate that the opposition should criticise any government. But it is not acceptable and I would dare say that it is not moral, that it should attack the government with lies, distortions and falsifications. Many lies have been heard these two days, so far, in this Chamber. A characteristic example, which has unfortunately also been reproduced by the previous speaker, is the question of the privatisation of the TECF. Should the New Democracy and the PASOK look in the mirror for their own term in this matter in 2013? Yesterday, the Minister responsible gave the answers. I won't repeat it. The maintenance of European data and rules have so far lifted this privatisation. I talked about a lie before. But why is Opposition lying and, in particular, Dedicate? You don't have positions, suggestions? You bet on destabilizing identifyrs, sometimes, with the lenders' extreme positions. But especially at this point in time, which our country is moving towards the completion of the second assessment, the institutional role of the opposition, particularly the officer, demands that it contribute critically - with criticism, I stress - to the national effort. Because we don't live in conditions of normality. We are in conditions, I would say, of a particular economic war, in a world that is changing, with greater uncertainty, with serious outbreaks of uncertainty in the metropolitan cities of capitalism - I say the Great Britain, the Americas of Trump, recently and Italy - in a Europe that is looking for its identity and which is at risk of collapse, with inequality, with a serious democratic deficit - and this is, of course, the most serious - and its peoples to experience the harsh austerity and emotionally reacting, I would say, to strengthen extreme right-wing, political and nationalist folding. In this world, in this Europe that also changes Greece, which is fighting against these neoliberal policies, for democracy, for the welfare of the peoples, for building people's bridges of cooperation, I would expect greater responsibility, and at least I would expect the Seminar, but also the PASOK, some elementary elements of self-criticism. Who got us here to get us? And I wasn't expecting it, but unfortunately we heard it this morning in this Chamber, former Minister of State, of the former New Democracy government, talking about SYRIZA's geeks. So let's get serious. Now we're going to get to the point. The government follows a stable road map. It goes on to complete the evaluation quickly, without any retreat from the European acquis. It proceeds to join the QE and test exit on the markets in 2017, with a view to full exit in 2018. It shall proceed to the completion of the Programme in 2018, without new measures, at the final end of the memorandum and the recovery of the terms of political autonomy and equivalence in Europe. It goes on to a new development model, which will lead memorial Greece to the definitive overcoming of the crisis, to the development of a fair and sustainable one. It will lead to growth that will create jobs, which will gradually bring back the important scientific and highly trained potential of our young people, who in the years of governance of the New Democracy and PASOK have gone to the ground. They have not gone - because we have heard this today - all these thousands of young people under the SYRIZA government for two years now. But here I would like to say what the Commissioner responsible for research said this morning. He mentioned increasing funds in research in 2017. From 97 million in 2014, it will increase to 180 million in 2017 within the budget, while 148 million were provided in 2016. In other words, there will be the creation of the conditions for strengthening the scientific potential of the country and even of our young people. Not to say for the NSRF, which mainly focus on youth entrepreneurship and innovation. But, ladies and gentlemen, growth is not only the figures, it is the new jobs, it is the strengthening of the social state, it is growth with investment in innovation, combined with new policies and in the energy sector, always in line with the new energy policy in the European Union, which was recently decided last week, and it is simply'smart and clean energy for all, investments and growth with the dimension of climate change', which is fully integrated with the decisions of Paris in December 2015 - I am talking about COP 21 - and Marrakesh recently, COP 22. The government is implementing a multi-dimensional foreign policy. Today the Prime Minister is in Israel participating in the tripartite meeting of Greece - Cyprus - Israel, where the energy sector and cooperation are one of the first issues. The transformation of our country into a regional energy hub into the critical Mediterranean region contributes to the security of supply of the European Union. The European Union will achieve its security of supply by diversifying sources and energy routes, differentiation of sources and routes such as the southern corridor, including TAP, IGB and other similar projects that will actually contribute in this direction. Priority for the European Union is energy efficiency and energy savings, a sector with significant development features, a sector that provides jobs to many industries, which has been particularly affected over the past five years, beyond the ecological footprint it leaves. The Ministry of Development recently incorporated two new financial instruments into the Public Investment Programme. One is the Fund 'Security II'. The funding will start in December. The Fund is concerned with the new programme 'I'm saving by house'. 68 million loans will be granted to low incomes and weak from the EIF. The budget of the Fund is 500 million and the 248 are from the ESDP EMFF for 2014-2020. Development is also investment in renewable energy sources. A new law on the new mechanism of RES was passed by the government and by the House, of course, and the non-privateisation of IPTO and the networks was guaranteed. Don't forget. 51% is under public control, and this is very important, while your previous government was preparing its privatisation of 66%. The "little PPC" law was also annulled, i.e. to privatize 30% of PPC.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u372	Please, shorten up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u373	Mr President, just a minute. In conclusion, I would like to say that this is the development with the ecological footprint that we have said and with social results. There is a lot of discussion, however, about the surpluses. What surpluses will we agree after 2018? I dare say that the pursuit of surpluses, even very low, if there is not the rapid development that we described before, fair and sustainable, will not have economic or social benefits. So the bet for 2017 is: investment and growth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u374	Thank you, Mrs. Kafantaris. Mr Vasilis Kokkalis, State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u375	Mr President, we have been waiting to hear from Mr Conkogeorgios until this hour.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u376	Mr President, you have had many people speak in this section, as well as parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u377	Do you know why Mr. Red speaks now? He cannot speak after you because there must be a rotation of the parties with regard to speakers. So you have to be the one to talk to after the Minister. Understand? There is a tactic on this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u378	I've brought my fans and you're kicking them out like that!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u379	They wait with agony and resentment and then they'll be excited to leave!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u380	It's a disappointment!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u381	I will try to be brief, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u382	Be well. Alas, he didn't say that about you, Mr. Red. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u383	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in two days' time we are called upon to vote for a budget in a critical period, which in Europe is indeed a climate of Euroscepticism. In this climate of Euroscepticism, our country, committed to the principle of solidarity and primary Union law, stipulates: 'Not in the policy of austerity'. A few days ago we had a debt decision. You will allow me to say that this is where the Opposition does not stand. We hear voices that it is not a good regulation, we hear voices, too, that this is essentially a third memorandum. We hear voices that in the end debt is not the issue, while simple logic and reading the text says other things. All Greeks can be informed of the text of this agreement. The text of this Agreement has three words. It has the word 'approved', but it also has the words'reminds','recognizes', 'calls'. Do the words ‘identification’ create an obligation? But what does it mean? The word 'approved' means that something has already been decided on about the debt. We are not celebrating, but you must admit that it is a small positive step. We should not play with words and we should not underestimate citizens' intelligence. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that the primary sector is important to our country has become commonplace. No one here in this Chamber disputes that agriculture must be founded on animal husbandry. That's why we're all confused. I'm not one of those guys who throw the ball in the rig. But I am taking the opportunity and I am necessarily tempted, at least for one minute, to mention some tragic mistakes that have been made in the past: Firstly, the sale of the Agricultural Bank. It was abolished, for those who know, the Agricultural Faith. We cannot talk today and the opposition to the effect that we do not support the agricultural sector when the relevant body, the Agricultural Bank, has been sold out. No one from the Opposition can say that this government does not support the farmer and the farmer when our first concern is the weak farmer and the farmer. And the weak farmer and the farmer do not support them with proposals such as that of the Chief of Official Representation on January 26, 2016, that is, "go to the netting of the due contributions", which means a confiscation of the agricultural subsidies. Under applause from the New Democracy. This is not the case with the weak farmer and the farmer. Our concern - and yours - must at least be to protect, up to a certain amount, the agricultural subsidy. And that's where we're going. I repeat that there are too many things that have been done in the past, but to come to the present and to the future. The priorities to be pursued by the Ministry of Rural Development are two: firstly, improving the everyday life of the farmer and the farmer. The Minister announced the farmer's card the day before yesterday. There is no doubt that it is a tool for the farmers' liquidity and even at an attractive interest rate. We have put order - no one disputes it - on payments to the OPECE. I am not speaking in terms of the allocation of sums due to the failures of the previous governments, but, at last, in this Chamber, not only did farmers and farmers themselves say so, but there may be delays, but we have put order on payments. The training of farmers will play a major role. We hope a great deal in the education of farmers. But, apart from the everyday life of the farmer and the farmer, as a state, we have to ring the bell, because we are interested in the next generations of farmers, from 2020 onwards. A colleague mentioned it for the professional farmer. Recently, a resolution was adopted by the European Parliament on professional farmers. What are the proposals of the parties about who should be a farmer? Does it have to be supported or not? We also want to hear it from farmers. We want the farmers next to us. Let's hear it. Who are the professional farmers? Who should they be? From 2020 onwards, a lot may change. This will be done through public dialogue. There are too many things I could mention, but I don't have time. Ladies and gentlemen, the primary sector is the most promising for our country. Unfortunately, all these years - for example - while farmers and farmers, together with the associated professions, are almost 25% of Greek society, it was the only place that had three federations, because it was divided in part. We, as Ministry of Rural Development, have a plan for the future of the Greek farmer, as well as a plan for improving everyday life and farmers and farmers. In view of all this, I would urge you to vote in favour of the budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u384	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-seven students and students and three educational sessions from the 2nd General High School of Igoumenitsa. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Constantine Kontogeorgios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u385	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. Before I begin my reference to the debate on the budget for 2017, you will allow me to make two speeches with thoughts that were born to me now, while listening to the colleagues who went up to Step and, in particular, to the last two colleagues. Firstly, the dear State Secretary for Agriculture, who just came down from the Step, has easily talked to us about the abolition of the Agricultural Bank. The challenge, Minister, remains. Here's a glorious step! Rebuild the bank!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u386	Please, Mr. Papadopoulos, not so excitement!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u387	Rebuild healthy and leave the theories. When he found himself in this dilemma, then the government was very serious. That's a nice piece of evidence. So re-create it from the beginning. Secondly, Mr Secretary of State for Agriculture, you said that the only piece left productive in this country is a part of the rural world and the livestock world. And because you have told us that you have a plan, I am prepared to come down from the step immediately to mention a point of your plan, especially for livestock farming. We have a very large deficit in livestock products in our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u388	We built the fields. They're coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u389	In any case, my dear fellow Member, this will be judged by our fellow citizens throughout Greece. Secondly, I address Mrs Kafantaris, who has already come down from the Step and said that opposition is against lies. Mrs Kafantaris, I would like you to tell me: is the increase in VAT to 24%? Is the increase in income tax a lie? Is it a lie to increase the solidarity levy? Are the factors of HNPH's for the plots lie? Is an increase a lie in the traffic charge? Is the excise duty on heating oil a lie? Is it a lie to increase the end of vehicle registration? Is it a lie that doubles the advance payment of the taxes of free traders, farmers and businesses? Is the increase in cigarette tax a lie? Is it a lie to raise the tobacco tax in the bag? Is it a lie to increase the rate - from 20% to 25% - on the insurance in the fire industry? Is it a lie to raise car insurance premiums from 10% to 15%? Is the abolition of reduced VAT on the islands a lie? Is it a lie about imposing a tax on beer? Is the 10% pay-TV tax a lie? Is the 5% tax on fixed telephony a lie? Is the computer cigarette tax a lie? Is the tax on coffee, the excise on wine, the special tax on beer? So tell us if all this is a lie. How do you see it? In any case, ladies and gentlemen, this is a critical time. It's a fact. The point is that you understood it a little too late. Because two years ago for some of us who were in this Chamber, you were saying other things. I will remind you what the dear Minister of Finance, Mr. Tsakalotos, said in the 2014 budget debate. He said: "We will present a medium-term and budget to the House that will start with a fresh folk mandate that will address the people's needs and have popular support with priorities, yes, with hierarchies, yes, but with a compass that is as classic as your compass. With one difference, however: we can also represent other social strata than the world of work, precisely because we have a vision of another development model, which calls for both the middle strata and the other strata to be integrated into a strategy, which will have another relationship between the state and the economy and the state and society." A little inconvenient. But I put it to the Minutes that no one is questioned. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Kontogeorgios, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I want to say this. All this other relationship, the new medium-term, the hierarchies, the compass, the class orientation of your budget, where did all this go? I have the impression that you have lost your direction, ladies and gentlemen, and from antimony you have become very memorable, and you have been mathematically driven, with Mr Tsakalotou's compass, Mrs Merkel's arms and Mr Shoeble's knees! That's what happened. You are now trying with excuses and with various appeals here - for example, what Mrs Anagnostopoulou said earlier, the sensitivity, the danger and the uncertainty of the war conflicts in our environment - to fear the people. But the people have taken care of you. Today all workers, all unions, all trade unions have declared a general strike. You know why. Because today the budget, on which their fate depends for next year and not just for the uncertainty that prevails throughout society, is being voted on. The noteworthy you know what it is? You will allow me to say it: While society is in complete turmoil, SYRIZA issued a statement and calls on all citizens and trade unions to come down to today's strike. If this for a reasonable, common man of everyday life, it is not the definition of society's deception, then it definitely needs a psychiatric analysis. It doesn't explain any differently. SYRIZA against SYRIZA's government! I can't explain it. You have the ability to explain all this. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, it is not the fact that you have deceived the whole of society and that would be the least that could happen to you. The point is, you don't regret it. You have no self-criticism, please address the Greek citizens and say: we apologise for what we have been talking about. We didn't know. Invite the popular word at the bottom of the scripture. "Outside the dance many songs you say." When you get into the dance, you have to dance. And here, not only do you not do that, but you also have the nerve to abandon the Opposition. You're not even criticised by anyone. What's that thing? How do you understand the functioning of democracy? No one in this Chamber has the right to speak. I come to some issues relating to the budget. Of course, the figures have been mentioned by all colleagues. Tell me, in the region, in regional Greece, do self-government for you play any role in the operation of the state?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u390	Very important.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u391	Yes, very important. Do you prove this through acts through next year's budget? How do you prove it? You saw what the Central Association of Municipalities said in its conference the day before yesterday, the Regional Union...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u392	How much did you owe the municipalities?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u393	Please, ma'am. You'll talk later. What are you disturbing about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u394	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u395	Do you know what self-government means? If you know what self-government means, you should see how it works in the region. You have condemned self-government to falsify with projects that never end, with funding, which do not exist on paper, with the retention of self-resources. That's what they tell you every day. If nothing else, you design the gaulater from above for any move. That's the reality. We also had the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Polakis, who, if anyone was listening for the first time, would say that there is no problem in the area of public health. But these are the things Mr. Paulakis has to go and tell the Municipality of Agraphs in Evrytania, the Centre for Health of West Francis, where the world of everyday hardship is, where the reality is. And let Mr Paulakis also tell us how much of the budget has been allocated. Let me tell him how much. 2% increase in retention from the main health pensions. The increase in retention of 6% of supplementary pensions. All this, about 700 million. This would give health care, plus the previous one, would solve all the problems. But there was no such attitude. He said only the absolutely necessary things that were given. Not only that, but he said the other one: After breaking the contracts, which were in existence, the cleansing and storage workshops in the hospitals, he added staff, with what contracts please? - A forerunner contract. - A forerunner. Every worker who is there has no right to either get sick or leave to take anything. - I don't know what you're talking about, but I don't know That's the reality. Without any working rights. All he didn't tell us here is that he discovered penicillin! That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen. And as if not all of this were enough - I'm closing up with it - you're going to ban us here, too, in this Chamber. You're going to ban us, too. You forget, however, that here is the temple of democracy and you will suffer it. You will be critical. You will put in your vocabulary and autocritical elements if you really want to work and recover.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u396	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u397	Toast respectfully to society, for every citizen is watching us and has drawn his conclusions. This budget is deeply commemorative, tax-free, it has all those elements which lead to the further poverty of the people, and I am therefore voting against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u398	My colleague has the floor from SYRIZA, Mr Anastasia Gara. Then Mr. Delis will speak from the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u399	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I was going to talk about the budget and talk about figures, about elements, about a comprehensive policy, as planned. Because a budget always shows the prospect of next year's actions, making an account of the previous year. So I was going to talk about it. But while listening to and following the debate all these days in the House, I have been confused. I think I've landed in another country than I knew in another Greece somewhere else. In a country where there have not been thousands of redundancies in recent years, in a country where there are no unemployed armies, in a country where wages and pensions have not been cut, in a country where there have been no Golden Boys, in a country where friends and acquaintances have not only benefited, in a country where it has not triumphed, in a country where it has never finished public works, because it has never reached hatreds, in a country where it has lived in prosperity and paradise. In a country that had forgotten Thrace from the governments, in a country that did not close any factory, in a country that did not close shops, they did not close down operations, in a country that the young people did not migrate, in a country where the businesses did not go to Bulgaria, in a country where we do not have the Chief of Officership to greet the Greek enterprises that went to Bulgaria. So in such a paradise country, which has nothing to do with all that I have said. That's what I've heard all these days from the mouth of Vice-Presidents. And I wonder: Haven't they ever ruled New Democracy and PASOK in this country? We have an unthinkable debt. How did this debt come about? We have underdevelopment. How was that created? We've been deinvesting all these years. We have unemployed, redundancies, wage cuts and pensions, we have poor people. How did all this happen? So, suddenly, in another country? Wasn't any of the people who ruled? Nobody? You are coming, ladies and gentlemen, to move the finger on us, who have received this whole situation, which I have described, a situation - so that we do not forget - that some have enriched themselves. And if we look around, some of the fathers get rich, they get rich and they've kept aside for their children. And not only did they get rich, but they have kept the chairs. That's why they're going crazy and getting confused. I think we should be landed and modest. The previous colleague, who came from Stepa, told us to apologise to the Greek people. We're grounded enough and modest and say we're trying to collect your own debris. You, really, for everything you've done, how many times do you have to apologize to this people? Because I think the nerve is getting out of here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u400	Do you require apologies for the Wooder as well?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u401	The lies...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u402	We'll talk about the lies, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u403	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u404	We accept the criticism, productive and hard criticism and progressive criticism from Anti-Population...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u405	For the lies to apologize for what you were saying in the election.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u406	I can't hear you from Stepma, Mr. Davaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u407	Mr Davakis, please do not interrupt, especially when they are women's speakers. Especially when women are fellow speakers, do not feel the greatest comfort for interruption.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u408	No, I'm doing it to men, so there's equality!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u409	I know, and men too. Mrs. Gara, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u410	I think it's not a sex thing. So I'm going on and I'm saying that the nerve in here goes a little too far. Some colleagues and some colleagues should be a little more focused on what they say. Two words on the Civic Opposition, but also on the Members from the Democratic Integration. You are trying and have as a weapon to hit this government, but also us members of the Couple, trying to spoil our own image, hand - hand to the systemic media, which support you for any success and for the success of the successes you have made, but also for the successes you have made these days, by harming our image. You were talking left-hand parentheses, it didn't come out of you. You were telling us liars, you were not coming out, because we were very honest when we failed them, and we were unable to satisfy and implement what we were committed to, we again addressed the Greek people with a new programme and a specific road map. And the people gave us this opportunity. I do not think we will be telling any lie, contrary to those who parade the Zappa - a parade of Zappa! - and you ended up in memoirs. You're telling us about our moral advantage, that we lost the moral advantage. I don't know any of us stealing. On the contrary, you are on lists, prosecutors entering your offices, you have scandals recorded, if not yourself, your partners, probably you have never had morals. Continuing: You were talking about a cutter, the cutter will be applied. It failed, too, not to apply the cutter. Now you say that we have voted for a fourth memorandum. You're completely irrational. Some say that we will vote, some believe that we have voted for a fourth memorandum. There goes that argument. Now you have a new account: We are in 2014. All that I said before, redundancies, poverty, wages, unemployed armies, young people leaving abroad, thousands of businesses that closed down, were not there in 2014? Heaven! There goes that record. To be brief, we in September 2015 before the elections presented a roadmap and we are serving him. We have said that we have an agreement, we are not taking a step behind this agreement and we are implementing it on the basis of our commitments. We said that in the last six months of 2016 recovery begins and this is reflected in this budget. You really talked about the farmers. Your proposal for farmers in tax was the freezing of confiscations. You closed the sugar mills, leaving thousands of farmers in deadlock. You closed down the Agricultural Bank, creating the property of farmers. You've been taxing allowances. The loss of the farmers you taxed it. All the public works have been stopped, because - I say again - the media are not enough. What have you done for professionals, you who go crazy and cry for business and professionals? You smuggled them into custody for debts of 5,000 euros. Have we forgotten all this? We therefore follow this roadmap, the first results of which are reflected, in this budget that succeeds. Firstly, it is what we have achieved with short-term measures. Secondly, they are the recovery indicators. We are modest. We don't have success story and we don't celebrate development. What we're talking about is that our economy is showing us small samples of recovery. We've been through this too many times. The trade balance is beginning to be reversed, we have an increase in exports, we have an increase in trade, we have an increase in tourism, we have a fall in unemployment, we do not celebrate. It is a very difficult situation, but it shows us that forces are being released into the economy, it shows us that there is a dynamic that, with good work, with good use, we can achieve too much, the comitology and the programme in 2018, to be a free country, modern and European. Another point, Mr President, and apologies for the time. This budget - I could say too much - shows a left class and a social figure. Why? It has increased costs of social welfare, public health and education, but this is an annoying thing for you because your clientele is spoiling. The community centres that Mrs Fotio creates in the Ministry are a very important reform, because with dignity and indisputable media, the citizen will be able to serve, without having to ask any Member or any players in administrative matters or I don't know what.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u411	Please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u412	I'm ending with a phrase. This budget, in addition to a dynamic economy, which shows us, with the protection of the weak and the lower layers of this society - because that is our duty, to start there, to remind us that the state will pay housing loans for those who are unable to pay them - has another innovation: we have no budget for the hatreds that you budgeted. So let us all contribute for the last time to turning a page into this country. Let's help get ahead, not for us, for the generations that come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u413	Thank you, Mrs. Gara. Please calculate more and better your time, all and all. I will give the floor to Mr Ioannis Delis, at least to the previous speaker, for reasons of parity and parity. Here, Mr. Delis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u414	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, no matter how much the coup d'état tries to shape its policy, the reality comes and disproves it. The budget you bring, gentlemen of the government, for 2017 reveals to you why it reveals the class substance of your policy for capital. From wherever you see this budget of SYRIZA - ANEL, at a conclusion: The people pay in a thousand ways and capital, business groups win with so many others. This is evidenced by the new barbaric measures of EUR 4 billion, which are provided for in taxes and social spending cuts, which do not replace, but are added to the previous ones to make the burden on the backs of our people even heavier. Only one element of the budget is sufficient to show its classic character. 95% of the state's tax revenue comes from the popular layers and only 5% from the business groups, which, of course, then get it double and triple through subsidies and various incentives. And all this, with projected growth of 2.7% for next year. Either in crisis, then, or in the development of capitalist, the people always pay. See what the budget says about education. The small increase in expenditure, which it provides, does not concern the explosive deficiencies in all levels of education. It concerns only those areas in which the capital is now in the hierarchy and which are, on the one hand, promoting the so-called Lifelong Learning and Training and, on the other hand, research - innovation for the needs of enterprises, of course, and not, of course, for the people. There will go the money, in order to further expand the so-called 'learning' of people's children, namely, to exploit the capital cheaply and above all, fresh labour and at the same time to reap to the record to reap, prepare to serve the new lower, underpaid wages, grinding every job right into the mill of your European competitiveness acquis and cast an ashes in her eyes. However, all other expenditure on education remains frozen at the levels of previous years. What does that mean? It means that you are condemning people's needs in education. It means that the tragic situation of schools, universities and HEIs will continue and deteriorate as continued sub-financing accumulates the problems in education. So for 2017 you obligate universities to operate with 1/5 just the money they received in 2011, while the shortages of teaching staff even prevent the teaching of basic courses. So, not even in this budget there is no funds for free oil, electricity, water, telephone in schools. On the contrary, you even reduce these poor state subsidies to the school committees, which concern the daily life of the schools, everyday life that many times - and you know it very well - is exploited toward parents to put a deeper hand in their pocket so that their children's school is not left without heating or other necessary materials. Why don't you delete the debts of the school committees in the former ECI? Why don't you give the gas and oil tax free to the schools, as you give it to the shipowners? Why not exempt schools from VAT for their consumption, as you do for foreign embassies? When will you finally make a school lunch line for all children, to deal with the atrocity of the hunger of thousands of popular families, instead of leaving them to the professional charity of NGOs, the Church and donors? When will you ensure that no child of the people's family stays without medical care? When? When will you fund the earthquake shield of schools and what about their earthquake control, which ended in 2010 in 1/3 of schools? When will the thousands of five hundred kindergartens be built for all kindergartens in public kindergartens when 1/3 of them are housed in inappropriate buildings, shops, etc.Huh? Work for the builders for the construction industry. Only they want other power, other economy and folk, which will take priority over the needs of people and not the profits of the capital you serve. Are these rhetoric, so, these questions? Oh, no. They are today's elementary people's needs in education. And they don't fit in your politics. Priority for you are lenders, bankers, industrialists, shipowners. For them and all your laws, for them and for all the money. What does it mean, this budget for children with disabilities and learning difficulties? It means that they will stay without the necessary support, meaning that their families' gulch will become more upward, since they will continue to pay - those who can - for treatments, medicines, technical aids. They will find a few special schools, without the necessary staff, without infrastructure. How can such a child, today, in the 21st century, stop his treatments, because his parents have no money to pay? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It means that thousands of people's families will spit out blood to study their children, since state student care is almost nonexistent. It means that in public - I would ask - thousands of students are forced to pay out of their pockets the consumables and materials of their studies. It means that autism continues, since no permanent appointments of teachers are provided in 2017 and there are thousands missing in education. Whatever anti-educational cooking is done by the government, who fired seven thousand substitutes this year, the gaps are not hidden. And in schools this year more and more teachers take lessons regardless of their teaching subject. In short, within the pages of this budget, the people's family will find no answer, no answer to its problems and to its needs, no education or anywhere else. The answer lies in the hands of the people themselves. He's in his organization, in his fight. He is in the political proposal of the Communist Party of Greece, the only philosophical proposal for him and his children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u415	Thank you very much, Mr Delis. He didn't use all the space and time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u416	But it's important that you don't have the stress.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u417	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u418	It was rhythm.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u419	Standard, elements and inspiration. Thank you. Mr Antoniou Christos has the floor from SYRIZA, then Minister Gerovasili, and then Mr Fortsakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u420	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, while listening to the Vice-Presidents - mainly of the New Democracy and the PASOK - one wonders whether they came from another planet and were in that country in 2015, that they were not the ones who ruled over all these years, but some other government, that they were not the ones who created the huge deficits, holes, in the state budget that accumulated this huge, unthinkable public debt that drowns us like the nipple in the neck, that they were not the ones that created the client state and now we cry it is big and they have to reduce it. It really is impressive and shows, if you like, how conscious and how conscious they have understood what they have done in this country over the past few years. I now come to the 2017 budget. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2017 budget is the first budget to be characterised by a strong developmental and social footprint, following a continuous downward course that followed all economic sizes since 2009, with the well-known catastrophic results. In 2017, according to all official forecasts, it will mark the return of our economy to positive growth. The target for the budget is 2.7% of GDP, in which there is agreement from most international organisations. This recovery is mainly due to the improvement of the climate of stability and confidence in the Greek economy after the successful completion of the first assessment and the payment of a large part of the outstanding debts and the liquidation planning of the largest part in 2017, which will compensate for the negative material impact of the small increase in tax burdens. The target for 2017 remains the safeguarding of the fiscal equilibrium in order to complete the recovery of the country's credibility in the conduct of economic policy. At the same time, a significant objective remains for a fair sharing of adjustment costs, but also for a fair distribution of debts resulting from economic growth already under way. For this purpose, the 2017 State Budget incorporates a number of critical interventions. For example, I mention the full extension of the social solidarity allowance, the strengthening of the health, education and social protection sectors, the allocation of funds for State participation in non-performing housing loans for the poorest and the increase in the public investment programme by a large majority of EUR 250 million. For the first time, after six years, interventions to strengthen social protection and stimulate investment exceed the nominal annual increase in tax revenue in the 2017 budget. This positive surplus has been shown to be greater, due to the overrun of the revenue target, through targeted actions to combat tax evasion. This is said, in short, to redistribute incomes, which the Association of Greek Industries itself admits to being the largest in recent years. I want to comment briefly on the agricultural issue, because a lot of talk has been done on the part of the opposition. I will briefly say a few things about 2015-2016. ELSTAT's data show that agricultural income increased by 4% in 2015, reversed the downward trend of previous years, with an increase of 11% in agricultural income. It was also impressive to increase the value and volume of exports of fresh fruit and vegetables during the 2015-2016 trade period, despite the Russian embargo. Also, in this year, commitments were made, both in the first pillar, direct payments and in the second pillar of years since 2009 and in the current year, which are expected to reach 3.5 billion. However, we should also note our country's unfavourable obligations, which are related exclusively to the charging, as a result of the management of the previous governments depriving them of the corresponding resources per year, amounting to EUR 250 million. It's the various packages of Hatzidakis and Near that come to us now in the head. As regards the payment of losses of agricultural production from unforeseen natural risks, the Government responded to the following: almost all losses of 2015 were repaid, five months earlier than the previous year. Despite the difficulties we faced this year, we managed to move the payment of losses 2016 at the end of November, three months earlier than last year. We are completing the payment of old ESDP programmes that had been delayed since 2011 and then we start the payments that, together with the change in the European Regulation, will be paid sooner than from now on. For 2016, 35m euros are still expected to be paid on the second payment of subsidies by OPEKEPE in the second quarter of December. Thus, total payments for 2016 are expected to amount to EUR 180 million. For the tax on farmers, for the first time, we introduced an individual tax, starting from EUR 8,500, which reaches EUR 9,500, and exempted from taxation a very significant proportion of agricultural income from Community subsidies and aid, contrary to your own policy for all agricultural incomes and all kinds of subsidies and subsidies with 13% of the first euro, as foreseen by No 4172/2013. An undeniable witness is the relevant amendment, which was tabled by seventeen Members of the New Democracy in the autumn of 2014, with which they said the following. I read, 'Community aid should not be regarded as income and should not be taxed'. I would remind you that this amendment was rejected after many credits from the then government of Samara - Venizelos. I am tabling this amendment on the Minutes to remember some who seem to forget very easily. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Antoniou, presents for the minutes the above amendment, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is still much more to be done in the agricultural sector. Our aim is for the country's agri-food sector to become a vehicle for economic development by increasing the value of our agricultural products and this added value through strong cooperative and cooperative schemes to be fruited by Greek farmers and not to be dispersed in various directions to the detriment of farmers. Ladies and gentlemen, this is in general the outline of our financial targets for 2017. I had more to say, but I respect time. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u421	Thank you twice, precisely because you respect time. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, forty-four students and students and five teachers from the 1st Metsovo Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Olga Gerovasili, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u422	Ladies and gentlemen, in every debate on the budget we have to give answers about what state we want, what public administration we want. Today's opposition has shown in practice for four decades and what a state it wanted and what public administration it wanted. Despite the great words, the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK did not have the political will to reform the public sector in order to make it operational and effective. And that, of course, is not what we say, the Greek people say, every Greek citizen, who has been afflicted. They were, therefore, the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, who were building the state with all the bureaucracy and plurality needed to meet customer and roussefology criteria. They were the ones that formed a public sector which was embarrassed, inefficient, opaque and, of course, at a high cost. In the years of the memorandum, they used reforms as a pretext to lay off employees, reduce wages and pensions, while at the same time handing over the powers of the State in the private sector. Having given signs of writing, today, without any self-criticism, they come and revolve about the executive, small and flexible state and, of course, make opposition with everything that the Greek society has rejected. They say'small state', meaning a few and chosen. They say 'final state', meaning private interests that plunged public institutions. They say "friendly", meaning the flexibility they displayed in the rosés. I would like to remind you here that the number of civil servants, of course, has been the smallest since the beginning of the crisis. The number of all civil servants - i.e. regular and temporary staff, and staff of legal persons under private law - in 2009 was nine hundred and two thousand six hundred twenty-five, and today is six hundred and fifty-five thousand six hundred eighty-eighty, a reduction of about three hundred thousand. All regular civil servants at the end of 2009 amounted to six hundred and sixty-two thousand nine hundred employees, and today they are five hundred sixty-four thousand. Of these, the three hundred four thousand are teachers, doctors, nurses, uniforms and clergymen. There are two hundred and twenty thousand left. I would like the New Democracy to tell us where to cut, who we need to cut off from, to make ideological obsessions a reality. The above figures I'm filing for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, Mr Olga Gerovasili, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Also, we were accused of poster service. There's been a lot of noise on the media, on the TVs, in the House, everywhere, at every opportunity. According to the last record, post-mortem employees are two thousand sixty-seven. And that is because, contrary to what was happening until last year, all the partners, i.e. parliamentarians, those who serve in parliamentary groups and the posters of the mayors and local government, are recorded to the posters. That is, of these two hundred sixty-seven, five hundred sixty-seven are scientific associates of all MPs, regardless of parties. One hundred and fifty are posters serving in the House and the groups of parliament of all parties. The six hundred thirty-one are abbreviated by the mayors and other bodies of local government. Total not in government from the two thousand, a thousand three hundred forty-nine. These are the real numbers to know what we're talking about. But what did they do? They used to do the trick. They weren't recorded by all of them as a poster. That is, scientific associates and special associates weren't recorded with the posters. We did this to have a full picture. This means that in a government minister's office, Samaras, they were serving fifty three people, and as retired ones only appeared eight. That's the difference. Ladies and gentlemen, the above figures are to give some answers, because this is not a place to plunder. For us, therefore, the state must be neither small nor large, the state must be as much as it needs to be to be able to cope with the great challenges of the time. In this context, the government's declared objective is to implement critical social interventions, productive reconstruction, development with democratic planning and social justice and, of course, with the achievement of budgetary objectives. All this without administrative reconstruction obviously does not mean. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving towards real public reform, so that the positive course of the Greek economy is strengthened by the existence of a modern and efficient administrative mechanism. Since last summer, a great effort has been launched to rebuild, which shows that the government has the political will not only to get the country out of the crisis but to lay solid foundations for the next day. The law that we recently voted on on mobility simplifies and rationalises the movement system in the public sector, so that it can be demonstrated and exploited as much as its rich in experience and skills as its human resources. The new system attempts to redistribute staff and fill vacant posts on the basis of the actual needs of each body, without undue bureaucratic burdens with only one final signature by the Host Body. Transitions will become the rule and abstractions, in order to stop this customer decommissioning system, which has been eroded for decades of previous governments. We were accused of the voluntary nature of mobility, particularly from New Democracy, which told us that it should be compulsory. Mandatory mobility is proven to be dysfunctional and only serves customer relations through the rule of exceptions, which are now filled with ministerial and parliamentary offices. It is these ruffles that have accepted services, for which some people today say they are subordinated. We will, then, reform the state without political authoritarianism. Ladies and gentlemen, we are implementing real reforms, such as the register of Executive Officers, the digital establishment plans, the digital signature and the digital movement of documents, which not only upgrade the public sector but have a clear and measurable fiscal impact. Through the fight against bureaucracy, the public could save up to EUR 800 million in 2017-2018. The Greek State has spent the last 15 years around 6 billion euros insisting on paper and paper handling. You realize what 6 billion euros means. We have also recently voted on other important changes in the same law. We restored social injustice to the detriment of people with disabilities, timeless inequality, which were excluded from the ALP tender procedures. The last bill has now been restored. We have had favourable arrangements, such as the granting of a child's leave to civil servants. They will now be entitled to a period of four days a year with earnings, in the event of sickness of their children, which is slightly increased for multiples and single parent families. I would remind you that this in the public sector has become horizontal and always, except that it was different. It wasn't an institution, but it was a clientele and a rousteology. With targeted political intervention, we are working to overturn accumulated injustices. In addition, significant funds will be made available in 2017 with the same aim. Actions are being financed to improve the productivity and quality of public services, to remove administrative obstacles, to avoid creating conditions of exclusion from the knowledge society, for administrative transparency, for the development of e-government, for education of civil servants and for strengthening interregional cooperation. The Ministry's regular budget does not change in relation to 2016, it is at the same level of 44 million euros. At this point I would like to point out that there will be no dismissal in the public sector in the future. Because we've been listening to that paraphilism too lately. The Public Investment Programme has also budgeted 140m euros, with which, in cooperation with the Ministry of Digital Policy, we will proceed directly to projects of necessity and significant efficiency in the administrative reconstruction of the country. The current government is planning a public administration, which will really meet the needs of society. For us, this means that the citizen's relationship with the state is changing. We want the citizen to feel dignity when dealing with the state. Ladies and gentlemen, last May we disproved those who said that the first assessment will not be closed and we are not going to close the second evaluation. We all know that, in a real negotiation, the parties are sitting across and coming with the hardest positions on each side so the evaluation, always closes to the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u423	You're laughing, too. You don't believe it, either. You're even laughing at yourself!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u424	We had time to hear from you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u425	Mr. Georgiades, please don't interrupt. Madam Minister, please continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u426	In spite of the taxisist demands of the International Monetary Fund, we are really negotiating for labour too, insisting on the European acquis and best European practices. Would we like here, in fact, to make it clear, is this idealism, is the government's obsession, the struggle, for collective bargaining? Because that is what we have heard, as we have heard that this obsession is delaying the closure of the evaluation. Ladies and gentlemen, once again the positive course of the Greek economy has been reflected in the last Eurogroup. More in Europe also recognises the reformist effort of this government and the need for stability, of course, in the European Union. Instead of jeopardising opposition, it would be better to take a position on employment, debt, surpluses, for which it insists on forgetting what it had signed with creditors. Memory is a precious ally, not to blur our judgment, but rather to protect it. At the time that decisive and stable steps are taken out of the crisis, the New Democracy, for once, is as if it never ruled, as if it had not existed. He's trying to regain power by literally launching a campaign of oblivion for everything. While the Greek government is struggling with positions of principle, it attempts to blur the waters, hiding what it has for years dictated its political actions. The austerity ideology as an adhesive of Europe's neo-conservatives and neoliberals. This government is the first government to fight to get the society out of the lenders' board, without blaming the people, without saying that it is the people who are responsible for the situation today. Because, of course, there are unavoidable difficulties encountered by the Greek people on this really difficult road, but for this people, we will prove that we will do in four years what they have not been able to do in forty years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u427	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Theodoros Fortsakis has the floor from New Democracy and then Mr. Panjas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u428	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not go into detail. I think that there has been an excellent analysis of sizes from the previous speakers in the New Democracy, especially from our rapporteur, Mr Hatzidakis, but also from other colleagues. So I won't talk about numbers. I'll focus on three points. Point one. The Eurogroup's recent decision. Point two. The positive forecasts for the budget. Point 3. The tax storm affecting citizens in 2017. Point one, therefore, is the recent Eurogroup decision, which is supposed to give the solution to the famous negotiation. Negotiation is the size that the government has set as a central base for its policy and everything is turning around this famous negotiation. It is not good to deny that there is a positive development in the fact that the Eurogroup has given Greece something. But what Eurogroup gives Greece is minimal compared to what Greece grants. It is a drop in the ocean, because the intensity of the problem we are facing today is enormous and by giving 3.5%, which we have not been able to deal with, we are committed to solutions that will lead us to constant problems. It is a pity that the government has not been able to negotiate with that which has been imposed, so that we can convince the partners that we have a real reform programme, which we can negotiate to achieve lower surpluses, without which the country will not be able to cope easily. Unfortunately, the government is not able to speak effectively with our partners and this is unfortunately at all levels. Neither the second assessment can be closed in time nor the debt can regulate it as it should, nor can it put the country in time for quantitative relaxation. This lasting failure is unfortunately constantly accompanied by new measures. Why is that? Because the government simply cannot give a firm direction to the country. Does he or does he not want reforms? I heard the Minister earlier talking about the administration. But in the administration we all know that thousands of people have been hired lately, and even without the AACC procedure. We have extensions of contracts, we have recruitment, we have an increase of all these people without even the basic guarantee of transparency. WHY have you abolished it? Where is the objectivity and transparency of the public administration that we should ensure? Do we or do we not want to reduce taxes and expenditure? I have heard you speak, Minister, on a reduction in expenditure, but huge cuts in expenditure can be achieved. It's not just the paper you mentioned. They're the electric lamps and a bunch of settings that lead to a waste of money. What results have the government achieved over these two years of rule? Do we or do we not want investments? I will not say what has been heard many times about 'SOCAR'. We all know that all investments have effectively stopped over the last two years, because there is no one who will agree to bring his money to a country where he will be involved in endless processes, without making any results. Does the government at last want to take the country out of the ravage or prefer to satisfy the narrow party interest at the expense of all of us? It reminds me of this story we are experiencing, what we learned about the dog and the river. It's two monasteries separating one river and one bell is belling one nun and another nun and taking the dog on one side to the other side of the river. At some point, both friars start belling and the dog starts to go to the river without ever coming to the bank. Of course, the dog is finally exhausted and drowned. I fear that our country is in the same situation because of the incompetence and indecisiveness shown by the government. Once you take us this way, one take us that way, and I'm afraid you'll take us all to the bottom. I would like to comment on the budget forecasts for its positive points, because, in fact, the budget shows an over-estimation. The budget is set at 2.7% in 2017. It sees an increase in private consumption and sees an increase in investment. We read about a recovery in the economy, we read to increase employment, we read about confidence, about stability. Does anyone really think that all this can be done? It certainly does not believe a number of independent bodies, however, who find these very optimistic forecasts. They've been projected enough to repeat them. Do the people think so? I think that the citizens are reducing, today from our homes, talking about increasing private consumption, when we know that taxes and contributions have, in fact, completely cracked them. Do the supposed investors believe in them? Let's better ask the foreign investors, who just left the D.C.F.A. This is where we are - I fear, ladies and gentlemen - witnessing an economic surrealism on the part of the government. Surrealism means that we are confused by dream and fantasy with everyday reality. We have transport beyond reality. The most recent fans of this current, I fear, are located in the Ministry of Finance and unfortunately without the art of surrealists. The truth is that only one development has been achieved, the total development of taxes. There is a very nice Internet message and sms - you will certainly have seen it - which says: "When you feel alone and when you feel abandoned, there is someone who never leaves you" and underneath signs "Ministry of Finance, we are the service of taxes". So let us keep this in mind, because we really have someone who loves us and keeps thinking about us! I will close in a minute, Mr President, by saying a few words about the tax storm that will hit the citizens in 2017. Taxation concerns me, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, and in theory, since I am teaching tax law and, indeed, I am often surprised at what is happening in the area of tax law. The new taxes are 2.5 billion, the increase in VAT on cigarettes, fuels, beer on coffee and a lot of other items. The indirect taxes which everyone bears without exception are in the hands of the citizens. That is to say, at this point, the concept - which is, however, constitutionally regulated - of burden-sharing capacity, which says as follows. Distribution of tax burdens based on the economic power of each citizen. I really wonder why the government has long insisted on this furious imposition of more and more taxes. The tax raid not only affects growth, it affects the whole structure of our economy. I know that it is necessary for the state to ensure revenue, but we must ensure these in other ways, and in particular by reducing expenditure and by strengthening production forces, which will create new wealth and thus new taxes and new revenues for the state. Only the Ottomans had this mania to tax everywhere, in the religion, in the presence, in the capture of the local flag, and even in the teeth, they taxed, in the baking, in the marriage, in the length of the hair. Have we returned to the Ottoman period? I fear that we are leading to a situation which is completely deadlocked. We will have to change the question as quickly as possible, because otherwise the country will sink even further. I think that this budget is another step backwards. That is why we will vote against him. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u429	Thank you, Mr. Fortsakis. On behalf of SYRIZA, the honourable Member and colleague, George Panzas, have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u430	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, now the New Democracy does not tell the world that is following us, that it is the country that has been bankrupt, that it has been the one with PASOK for for forty years, deceived the Greek people, created pathogens that have created irreversible, just to keep them in power. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] Three days now it sounds in this Chamber that we have broken up the country, destroyed it, charged it 86 million, that SYRIZA is sending out the investments. Listen up! Over the past ten years in PASOK and New Democracy governments have left hundreds of businesses and moved to Bulgaria, Skopje and even subsidised. But it's SYRIZA's fault now. This is the case, of course, with the people's proverb that says 'the donkey said the flying head'. They're accusing us of going to Fidel Castro's funeral, of the fact that Obama didn't eat well in Athens, that we don't speak English well, that it's the SYRIZA's fault, that in America Trump and so on. Here is another popular saying that says "the madness goes in the cloud". That is why I have heard my dear colleague from New Democracy, whom I appreciate, speak in a speech this morning at a 'psychiatrist'. I don't know, it's his opinion. I don't think he left his former constituency, Corfu, because that's where he has a good psychiatric hospital. Let's go down. None of you, however, can blame us for poverty, unemployment, inequality, strife, corruption, rheumatism and slander, because all these are the legacy of PASOK and the New Democracy in the country. It is the legacy of your own parties in youth, which today is leaving the country. Ladies and gentlemen, more than a year has passed since the last elections and we can see the positive effects of our policy. In conditions of austerity and fiscal adjustment, we have been able to stand by the citizen and the socially weaker. In all fields, in all areas, in the economy, in health, in education, in sport, in culture, we have managed to stand up. We have managed and made structural interventions, in essence, which other governments would avoid. All this, of course, is a continuation in the budget for 2017. It is a budget that is realistic and moderate, which marks the passage of the country from the recession to growth. It is a budget that insists on looking after the socially weakest, with the 760 of social income and the red loans of our weak fellow citizens and much more. It is a budget, which comes to a vote following the historic Eurogroup decision to reduce the Greek debt by 45 billion and even without paying anyone, without losing one euro from the insurance funds and the Greek banks, just to save foreign banks. Ladies and gentlemen, we have two areas in this country that come from the distant past as interconnected pillars of human internal search and balance, sport and culture. I'll stand at the first one to tell you the following. Our Government has to present a rich project with structural interventions, which alter the traditional sample of the policy that wanted New Democracy and the PASOK to have them well with the interests that plunge professional sport and football and basically ignore amateur sport. We crashed and will continue in this direction until the football that poisons our young people every day and not just stinks. We will continue and support, as a matter of priority, amateur sport. This is an indication of the relative increase in the budget for sport by about 5%. Because amateur sport is the one blossoming in every neighborhood, in every family, it is the one that teaches healthy competition and well-gambling, which gives invaluable figures the personality of man. That's where we're going against other parties' oldest political parties. This is what our left-wing culture and, above all, our culture demands. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a Europe where its people react to austerity policies and send out loud messages through referendums. On the other hand, we have the leadership of Europe in conditions of great economic crisis, to push our country with unprecedented intransigence to more austerity. We therefore have as a one-way road and as an absolute objective the country's success. In this strategy, we are presenting a realistic budget. This government will make it and take the country out of the crisis. I therefore recommend calmly to everyone and take serious note of the fact that the elections will take place in the autumn of 2019. Calm down, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u431	Thank you, Mr Panjah, and for keeping time. Mr. Hadjisavvas has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u432	Thank you. I saw yesterday in Parliament's channel the concept of the budget as a word when one started to apply and said that it started to record revenue and expenditure, budgeting for the following year and revenue and expenditure, but it became an attempt to cover the deficit, the loans that were still in existence since 1821 and were lost somewhere along the way. I don't think there's any better imprinting of what we're trying to do here today, that is, budgeting revenue and expenditure for 2017, writing revenues from measures that they'll never pay. They can't pay off because the Greeks can't pay any more. SYRIZA presents the last deal as a victory. A fair distribution of taxes is said by some speakers. Let farmers, workers, free professionals who will be taxed in 2017 listen well. Lower unemployment, you say. Let's hear this well the young people who will leave Greece in 2017. You removed - I heard - with your mathematics the social weights. In other words, all the Greek people who are plagued by this tax raid have a group offense, hallucinations. There is, you say, recovery and real development, that is, copying Samara's success story. You saw what happened to Samaras. The New Democracy now ironically says that SYRIZA abolished HNVIA, which did not abolish it, took the wages to 750 euros, which did not take them back, restored the thirteenth wage and pension, which did not bring them back, that it tore up the memorials, which did not tear them apart, but also brought new ones. The New Democracy continues, not ironically, by saying that it has developed over its days. The reality, however, is that during its days, as well as PASOK and the co-determinations, ENPIA was imposed, the tenth wage and pensions were cut, it imposed its own memos and naturally supported the SYRIZA memorandum. In the report now that the fanatical SYRIZA - ANLL bring anti-grass measures, I say that the "usable Left" simply brings measures that you fanatics of Samara, Venizelos and Mitsotakis could never pass. Of course they reward and the companies that left Bulgaria that are extroverted. In other words, they also welcome the policies that SYRIZA forced them to leave Bulgaria, with the result that there is this economic affliction in northern Greece. I agree that the memorandums bring comitology and ongoing control, and I also agree that the programme will also fall out. But why will this fourth programme and the Memorandum fall out? They will fall out as the first and second fell, and now the third will fall, and if he comes and fourth, that will fall. Eventually Greece will be bankrupt not by the wrong application of Memorandums and Commands but by proper application. That is the objective of the subordinated institutions. People say "do they not see that the program is not coming out with these taxes?" They see it. That's what they want, not to get out, to impoverish us. We did not fight in 2010 when we were strong. They're now dragging us into battle, after we've run a memorial marathon. All the wealth of Greece entered a pledge with the memoirs. When something enters a pledge, in fact, the pawnshop never wants to pay what you owe to get the object that is of multivalent value. The riches of Greece are therefore ensembled. They don't want us to pay. They want to take it all away when we get out. The problem, of course, has been created by this European governance that comes, gives orders, and you are running. The national independence of States has been abolished. You are now continuing to seek a solution to those who have created it to us. We are not an independent state. They tell us when elections will take place. Qumanto is the multinationals and banks. We have also seen Black Friday on your day, against small businesses that would naturally not be able to make the offers made by large multinationals. A balance exists at the moment: on the one hand it is only foreign economic interests, and on the other it is national independence, national dignity, our long history, the future of our children. Ridiculous is the dilemma. One-way is patriotic and nationalism. We're paying for the Eurozone. The locked euro exchange rate only serves the strong Germany, and when we say Germany, we mean the German industries and banks. We do not mean the people, who also reacts to the elections that take place there when they take place. So the sovereign states decide what to pay and when. You should also decide that you should first feed the people and the Greeks who leave to make sure they don't leave. The inevitable evil you are now trying to impose may not be so inevitable. So, what happened to Iceland that left? Development is there. What happened to all European countries that have no euros? We must again learn to produce rather than import. There can be cooperation between nations within a European Union, but each nation has its own national currency. This will make Greek investments and not the tenant investments through divestment of our public property. But that's none of your business. You are proud to say that you are the democratic arch and you call us anti-democratics. But you blackmail the citizens of democracy who vote 'No' in the memorials and tell them fascists who react both to the third and fourth memorandums to come. Democrat citizens vote on Golden Dawn and make it a third party and close Heads and MPs in prison. You exclude us from parliamentary procedures. Even today, two years that I am a Member of Parliament, I ask questions to specific ministers and they do not answer. It's not my questions. They are those who vote for us and those who do not vote for us, because the problems concern everyone. So an absolute trick, the cloak of your monumental democracy, the economic and institutional dictatorship that has been imposed on Greece. There is no democratic arch and anti-democrats today in the House. There are the memorial forces on the one hand, the government and the opposition, and on the other we anti-monetary national patriots, we goldenmen, the enemies of the regime.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u433	Mr Karastasis, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u434	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the 2017 budget, the most important law on state and operation, the one that characterises the governance profile of the country. We have arrived - let me be euphemistically - in the seventh budget submitted under the terms of the memorandum and the second with the SYRIZA Government. I was saying last year from this Step to the corresponding debate that the SYRIZA Government has been in a position to negotiate under the break of Grexit, working foreign and domestic centres, for gaps and omissions in the implementation of commitments made by its predecessors. And note that the bet for the government was the successful outcome of the negotiation to prove that it is a win of substance rather than a win of fire. Today, when comparing the two budgets of our Government with the previous ones, I am pleased to note that the first budget for the financial year 2016 came out of the recession and inspired budgetary stability. The 2017 budget is now consolidation of budgetary equilibrium and stability, restores confidence in the markets and gives the message that our country's budgets are no longer fictitious nor deficits. The 2016 budget closes with a primary surplus of 0.5% and exceeds revenue targets by 1 billion euros. In the second half of the year the economy had a positive growth rate of GDP. This means officially the end of the recession. For five months in a row, private-sector deposits to banks have increased. The interest rates of the ten-year bond today are at around 6.4%, the same as in spring 2014. There is a difference, however, that, in the spring of 2014 everywhere, interest rates fell, and today interest rates go up, except for our country's interest rate. Madam President, I do not want to abuse time by comparing the events of the previous governments with comparisons already made by the Greek people. Therefore, while remaining in the budget and after pointing out the increase in the social budget of 2017 to 1,16 billion compared to the EUR 272 million of the 2016 social budget, I would like to focus more on a very important issue, in the public investment budget for 2017, a basic source of revenue of which the inflows from the European Union are. The development areas supported by the Public Investment Programme are, in particular, transport and the environment, with, in particular, infrastructure, entrepreneurship and private investment support, the strengthening of the knowledge society, energy and the use of energy resources. I have to make a special mention here in the program "I save by house", a programme that had been very helpful to our country, which is beginning again with an increased budget, as well as the other major need to "turn" the whole of mainland Greece by providing gas. Ladies and gentlemen, there are still three major regions, eastern Macedonia and Thrace, Central Macedonia other than Thessaloniki and Central Greece, which have no opportunity to benefit from the use of natural gas. They do not have it, ladies and gentlemen, because the logic of privatising everything, which the previous governments have stubbornly tried to impose, has given fruit to the relevant tenders that took place between 2012 and 2014, since no individual was interested in participating in these two competitions. Our Government is now coming to fill this gap with the creation of the gas distribution company of other Greece, a 100% subsidiary of DEPA, which will directly bring gas or liquefied natural gas, LNG, or compressed natural gas, CNG, and in these areas. However, the large contribution of the Public Investment Programme to the economic development of the country is reflected in infrastructure projects. The Public Investment Programme of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport in the 2017 draft budget closes a large cycle of incomplete planning, feasibility, mismanagement and unfulfilled promises, which for decades have been the practice of previous governments in infrastructure and transport projects. This is how projects have been completed, where Community and national resources have been smuggled and have faced the risk of being semi-finished. Projects are launched, which will have a real impact on society and the economy and which the Greek people will not pay for, using the available resources to the full. The timely completion of the five major motorways, Morea, Corinth - Patras, Ionian Road, the Aegean Sea in Tempon - Platamonas, as well as the middle part of the E65 until March 2017. In addition, for the first time, the Patras-Athens-Thessaloniki-Evzones axis, which began in the 1980s, will be attributed to our country for the first time. The co-financed Public Investment Program also concerns Thessaloniki Metro, which has been stopped for years. This project has been relaunched, the work of the civil engineering engineer is completed in March 2017 and will be operational until 2020. The same part of the Public Investment Program includes Metro Line 4 and Tram's extension from Keratsini to Perama, alleviating the metropolitan area of the capital, as the Northern Road Axis in Crete, a request for many years, as well as the southern part of the long highway of central Greece, E65. Also, rail projects that were abandoned, with no funding available, were included in the Connecting Europe Programme and returned to the co-financed part of the Public Investment Programme. This will bring for our country at last a modern high-speed train linking Athens and Thessaloniki very soon, within three hours and twenty-five minutes. Finally, with the rationalisation of the transport infrastructure programme in the 2014-2020 programming period, new major projects, projects for citizens and not projects are launched. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the 2017 budget is developmental, surplus and the main real and practicable. The government builds relationships of trust both with society and with partner lenders. I am therefore pleased to say that this budget assures us of the imminent exit from the war of the economic crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u435	Thank you. Mr Georgiadis, Member of the New Democracy, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u436	Mrs. Carachosta, don't complain. I hear you, don't complain. I'm not gonna do anything to you, I'm gonna be a good guy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u437	I'm taking notes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u438	Notes to keep because the numbers aren't doing well. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about the budget we have to be specific, because we are talking about numbers. I'm asking a simple question. I haven't heard that yet. On page 140, you have budgeted for 2017 -188 million from the ICES. You predicted when you drafted this budget that you would collect 188 million from the TECF's privatization in SOCAR. Until the budget comes to be voted on, this privatization, as we all know, has been cancelled. There isn't. So you're missing 188 million. Can a SYRIZA MEP tell me where to fill out these 188 million missing or what to cut off an equivalent amount of 188 million? Otherwise you have not made a budget, you have made a wish. Because I hear all this talk, and I heard before Mrs Gerovas, I imagine that the citizens are not interested in starting to say how good you are and how bad we are. Those in politics are good - and I do - but in a parliamentary debate where people have to understand what is happening, politicians are not judged by what they say, they are judged by what they are doing. So I would like to set a concrete example, and I would very much like to see a SYRIZA or ANEL colleague - there is none of the ANELs here, anyway a party you are now - answer me. A few months ago, the Minister of Finance put an amendment to a previous Memorandum of Understanding, where he 'frozen' the wage promotions, the growth of civil servants and officials of the Armed Forces, the Security Bodies. When the amendment came out that day - I imagine you remember it - there was a little supposed government crisis. He came and spoke to Mr. Kammenos, he said that this only goes beyond his body and because he had to be voted on, because it was to take the next dose - those doses that you previously accused of, which you said we have done as drug addicts and we are waiting for the next dose, all that you said at the time - Mr. Kammenos stood up - may have sat next to Mrs. Gerovasili, was a Government representative, Mrs. Gerovasili, he may remember - and he said, 'Listen to see, he can now be voted on here, but I am bound as Minister of Defense to the officials of the Armed Forces, that this measure will not pass. It will not pass because the Ministry of Defence presents and will submit equivalent measures within a timescale". In fact, Mr Tsakalotos said that the equivalent measures should be submitted by 31 August. This budget includes the "fresh" of wage maturities and members of the Armed Forces and the Security Corps. So the commitment made by the Minister of Defense on behalf of your Government and which he took within this House - and I want your attention a little, Mrs Gerovali - to be of some value?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u439	I'm listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u440	Does it have any value what the ministers in this House say and which Members applaud underneath? Do you accept that your Minister will make fun of you? Do you accept that? Will you go back to your voters this budget, which has inside what the Minister has promised from the Step that it will not happen? Does that have any value? Or can you say anything you want to go and then dance some nice dances, like those I've seen online dancing with Mrs. Gerovassili happy and nice, what good you're having and you're running here from the chair? Is that all? Take the chair? No, I want an answer. Is Mr Kammenos' commitment that this measure will not apply to the members of the Armed Forces, whether or not? The budget is the 'fresh'. So you must answer us now and not come and say nice words. You told the members of the Armed Forces that the "bad" Samaras and the "bad" Venizelos cut the wages and that the decision of the Council of State had to be implemented and that the money had to be repaid from the cuts in August 2012. Very good. The "bad" Samaras and the "bad" Venizelos gave 50% of these cuts back and yelling at the time, you of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks "No want 50%, 100% must be given". [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] That's what you were saying, Mr. Papadopoulos. Yes, sir. You're in power. He said Mr Kammenos in the programme statements here five times: 'I believe that my first decision will be to get 50% back'. Yes, sir. It's been two years and they haven't got 50%. The "bad" Samaras and Venizelos gave them 50%. You 'good' Left, the 'first time left', forgot. What does Kammenos say now? Oh, he says it's not my fault. I want to give it to them, but Chakaloto won't give it to me. Oh, we didn't know, was Chakalutus in another government? But does Tsakalotus say, but does Kammenos say? So you really want to rule, saying everyone his and believe you by the Greek people? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Ms. Gerovali, listen. Saying for real or being in Stepma and seriously saying that everything is going well and closing the evaluation, I wish it were. I would like to remind you of something in this House, because there is a short memory in Greece. You know from ancient times, we Greeks had a lack of memory. Plato writes it in "Timanos", where the priest of the goddess Nathan tells Solon in the city of Sis, Egypt "O Greeks, holy children here", that is, you Greeks are always children, because you forget quickly. How is it - I want a Syrian MP - to explain to me that PSI, which was a direct debt write-off of 140 billion in the next three-quarters, to be a betrayal, to be hundreds of thousands of people and to burn Athens for us "German germans" that we voted on and to achieve - I welcome it, I hope that you will, I am not like you - a reduction of the debt by 45 billion by 2060 will be a triumph? How can 140 billion immediately be betrayal and 45 billion in fifty years to be triumph? How can both be applied at the same time? Only in your own logic, fake, can both be applied at the same time. So listen, Mrs Gerovali said that the evaluation is being closed. I wish. But, you know, Minister, you didn't answer and you're a minister. Half an hour ago the International Monetary Fund, his representative Mr. Rice, gave an interview and said that, unfortunately, if the surplus is 3.5%, the Greek people should take many and hard measures of austerity." Did you hear that? Half an hour ago. Did you hear that here by the MPs calling underneath and judging by Mr. Athanasios who is very antimony? Mr. Panjas is gone. Do you know why the fuss happened? You don't remember. Mr. Panjas had printed posters and was sharing and said about german germans and traitors who vote for the memorandum and hang them. Now that Mr Panzas is voting for the memorials to be a Member of Parliament, we have forgotten about the German-Fisheries! So, do you not tell me if the fund is actually bringing you what it says - does Mrs Gerovali say that she will be closed without measures, if only we wish - if she brings you 4.5 billion meters, will you vote? Will you vote for them? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] We're not going to vote and have elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u441	After your schedule says...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u442	In any of our programs, there are no these, sir. There are no programs at all. There's only one in your mind. But since you have the responsibility and it is not easy to throw the ball into us - these days have passed - I ask the SYRIZA Members present in the Chamber. If you bring 4.5 billion meters, as Mr. Rice said half an hour ago, will you vote on them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u443	We've had speeches...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u444	Listen, Mr. Papadopoulos. I've heard you many times.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u445	Mr. Georgiadis, don't have a dialogue. You're wasting time with pointless questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u446	You have a patient memory. You know what I didn't like? You told Mrs Marcus to give her seat. Do you know that when half the PASOK MPs passed through PASOK to SYRIZA, Mr Kurublis, Mrs Jack and everyone else kept the seats from their parties or that Mr Kammenos took the seat from New Democracy and kept it? Isn't it a little hypocritical, Mr. Papadopoulos, have you two meters and two weights? When parliamentarians go to your party, they hold the seats, but if they're not in your party, don't they keep them? When you want to have principles, the principles apply to everyone, not just to one. So be careful when you talk to me. So - to close it - Mrs Gerovali, I want a clear statement. If the fund what your representative said earlier means and if they bring you such measures, which I hope you will not, will you vote yes or no? Because now I hear that Mr. Tsipras will also make a dictionary to share a new hay with the citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u447	Mr. Georgiadis, you're not a journalist.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u448	How much more should the people eat after the thirteenth pension, the abolition of HNVIA, the rescue of reduced VAT rates in the Aegean Sea, the 751 wages? Hey, we can't take hay anymore! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u449	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u450	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u451	Do you understand now? But is this the case? Not a journalist, Mr. Georgiadis, you don't have to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u452	I'm not going to answer, I'm going to comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u453	Now if each Member asks someone to answer, what are we going to do here? Please, it doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u454	If the Minister wants to answer, why don't you give her the floor? The ministers always take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u455	Talk. Whatever he had to say he said. Well, please. Mr. Thibeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u456	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also the moment when we have to say things, since the term is perhaps the most widely used in Parliament and especially today. However, many have escaped the well - known etymology of the word, which obliges us, if we want to tell the truth, not to give in to oblivion, not to forget. Hence Mr Mitsotakis' agreement of truth, which simply means not forgetting ourselves. Sofon. The greatest lie, however, which has been heard many times today by the Members of the New Democracy - and not only - is that for the difficulties faced by the Greek society, the cause is the last twenty-two months of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. The New Democracy believes that the more often it pronounces the words "fake" and " lie", the more easily it will lead the Greek people to collective amnesia. The September 2015 elections for which the New Democracy, and not only, has a void memory, taught it nothing. Political hypocrisy and political courage can give you impressively existential benefits, of course, but it has a limited time horizon. On 5 December, with the positive development of debt and the launch of the closure of the rating, without new measures and in a development direction, the way to the end of catastrophe and inevitable comparison is opened. The 2017 budget is a political fact that allows us not to forget not only what has happened over the past six years but also over the last decades, which policies have led to the crisis and especially those who broke the social state. On that occasion, I would like to make an example of the question of education. The Ministry of Education's expenditure is projected to increase by 257 million or 5.3% compared to 2016. For the first time, it has become a brake on the continuous reductions in expenditure on education in previous years. In order to avoid forgetting ourselves, how many decades have we been in the last place for European Union countries to spend on education? Is there an answer? Without any mood of extermination of the difficult situation in conditions of economic crisis, we opened up schools on time, increased our special education departments, reinstated two and a half thousand dismissals, abolished the punishing assessment with a view to dismissing, moved on to institutional changes in secondary and tertiary education, defended teachers' working rights. Mrs Kerameou of the New Democracy wondered what the government would do with the additional 257 million. He said: "Only six and a half thousand teachers appointments?" I do not know if few people seem, but my colleague seems to have forgotten the number of zero appointments, for six years in the country's schools. The government has plans and goals. She's just in a different direction to education than those of the New Democracy. We support public free education as a prerequisite for growth and social upgrading. The New Democracy sees public education as a necessary evil and is constantly striving to strengthen private life, in the name of falsified excellence. The other serious budget intervention concerns the area of social solidarity. According to the 2017 Suggesting Budget Report, registered appropriations from the Ministry of Social Security and Social Solidarity are to cover needs such as the implementation of the Social Income Solidarity Programme, the CRL, on a pan-European scale, the financing of the Social Welfare Centres, the payment of social benefits, the reinforcement of social protection expenditure, such as action to facilitate the movement against social groups, AIFs, pensioners, unemployed. Continue the smooth financing of the “Help at Home” programme and alleviate the consequences of the gradual abolition of the ESDP through the implementation of compensatory measures. The government's proposal for expenditure of 860 million, which today was written in the budget without prejudice to basic allowances such as disabled and family allowances, has been accepted. An important role in this whole effort is the creation of a single database in the HICP for all benefits. What does that mean? That we will be able to monitor, through a general body, the overall economic benefit for each citizen, avoid fraud, at any time check each allowance. Also something very important is a blow to the bureaucracy that was afflicting the world. Today only with his VAT can the beneficiary of the last six months who has entered the welfare process guarantee his status and the allowance. Another issue that has been raised these days is indirect and direct taxes. We have heard from speakers in Anti-Population, who are now pouring crocodile tears, that in this year's budget the indirect taxes are being strengthened in relation to the direct ones. Indeed, despite our efforts at a fairer distribution of direct taxes, indirect taxes remain at high levels and affect, above all, popular strata. I would ask that they return and take a look at the budgets of the last thirty years. They would see that the ratio of indirect taxes was about as unfortunate and in the good times of furniture prosperity. For then we did not pay taxes for having and having taxes, and were charged with indirect taxes. Another good reason why we led to the crisis. Today it is heard by many speakers of the Opposition, that for all the country's suffering from post-Multipulation, it is the twenty-two months in which SYRIZA is governed. Within these twenty-two months they have been trying to rinse out anti-popular political decades. They try to rinse scandals, waste, client state, authoritarianism, corruption, "SIEMENS", Olympic Games and a series of sins we pay today after the bankruptcy of 2010. If you believe that today the Greek people, under the burden of the problems of the economic crisis, have lost their memory and knowledge, you are making a big mistake. The people have memory and knowledge. The Minister of Finance just made a clear proposal. Come on. You're talking about national politics. Come on, talk to me truths. Will we go for a reduction, if you want, of the surpluses from 2018 onwards with a national policy? Are we going to go to collective agreements with a national policy? Are we going against team dismissals with a national policy? Only with truths. Even for the first time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u457	Thank you. Mr. Dimitriadis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u458	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, this budget is our second budget and it is coming to consolidate what began with our previous, stability, credibility, the positive figure in our development and social policy. Faithworthy in the victory strategy at points after the summer compromise, we come to heal the consequences of the restrictive policies and subordination implemented after 2010. The restrictive policy mix implemented in previous budgets led the country to a downward cycle of reduced domestic demand, increasing unemployment, reduced income and production collapse. Some indicators for this are. Loss of 1/4 of GDP, loss of 65.5% of investment volume between 2008 and 2014, an average annual decline in final domestic demand by 6.2% between 2009 and 2014, a decrease in household gross nominal disposable income by 7.3% in both quarters, a huge unemployment rate that reached in 2013, according to ELSTAT, in 27.5%, a negative record, while average wages decreased by around 17%. The narrative of the Officerial Response for a single moment supposedly the success of the 2014 budget is based on two myths. In its own implementation of surpluses and full funds it has allegedly delivered. The first myth is crushed under the extremely interesting recent interview by the then Minister of Finance Mr. Hardouvelis at the radio station "BAMA FM" in July 2016, where he said attributes: "Actually the 2014 framework was quite strict. He was saying we should have a surplus of 4.5% in 2016. Our aim was then to close the evaluation. We didn't want to bring it to the table ever since. We wanted to reduce it from 4.5% and bring it to 3%. We believe that a 3% could be withheld by the economy at the rate of growth that we wanted to have." Double failure jackpot. Your government accepted surpluses that it was unable to carry out, in exchange for the signature of the evaluation. He also never met the agreed growth rates, which is also hidden. How much credibility would the Greek Government have - and it certainly did not - have - if the following day it questioned the basic terms of an agreement that it had just signed? You went into a trap you set up yourself, except this time it was at the expense of our country. In 2014, you were committed to a primary surplus of 1.5%, but you finally only achieved 0.3%. Deviation 1.2%, i.e. two billion. So the measures to close in 2014 were 2 billion, the surplus for 2015 was 5.4 billion, plus the interest payments on loans, this is the real cause of the collapse of your government. The second tale of surplus funds is a funny matter. The deficit is 550 million with proof from the General Accounting Office of the State. Our budget, the 2017 budget, is always submitted in the context of the financial adjustment, as reflected in the contract of financial facility with the institutions. It is a budget serving our strategy to exit the crisis, serving four main objectives: First of all, fiscal stability. This is about insurance, taxation and wages. Second, stable financial system, red loans arrangements, bank recapitalisations. Third, structural changes, reconstruction of a public sector, reconstruction of a state. Fourth, social policy, support for the weak, support for the social state. The contract provides for a primary surplus of 1.75% already exceeded when the second Memorandum, yours, provided for a primary surplus of 4.5%. The finding is that we were able to negotiate and prevent additional measures of 5.4 billion for 2017 alone. In fact, we are not the same. While in 2015 we were committed to a primary surplus of 0.25%, the economy eventually recorded a surplus of 0.7%. Based on the data from the implementation of the 2016 budget, the primary surplus of the general government is estimated to be 1,1 billion. All the objectives and, above all, the primary surplus, which gives the necessary financial space for the implementation of development and social protection policies, have therefore been overcome. The most important figures that advocate the fact that the 2017 budget has a very positive sign and is convinced of its success are: the growth of the Greek economy by 2.7% - everyone agrees to this. Positive growth of 1.5%. Economic growth rate 12.5%. Export growth by 10.2%. A surplus of 2.75%. Note that these are figures that the previous ones could not even dream about them. In particular, a primary surplus of EUR 3 billion is foreseen. The revenues of the regular budget on a regular basis are projected to be around EUR 49 billion, increased by 0.3% of GDP, compared with 2016. This increase is due to the improvement of the macroeconomic environment indicators and to the measures taken under the Financial Facility Convention. There are no new measures. There are no new burdens. A specific allocation of EUR 6,6 billion is provided for by the European Stability Mechanism within 2016 and up to the first half of 2017. At the end of June, the ESM disbursed EUR 1.8 billion credited to a special account, which was set up for this very reason. The allocation of resources to strengthen the budgets of general government actors started in mid-July 2016. On the basis of the provisional data of August 2016, liabilities to third parties amounting to EUR 1,35 billion have already been repaid. At the same time to achieve the objective of growth in the economy, all the development tools available to the Greek economy will be used. The development tools that we have today are not just the Public Investment Programme and the Development Law, but there are additional tools that aim to make public and private funds more leveraged to boost investment. As time is shortened, I shall refer a little to some specific elements on energy. Our objectives are: Adapting to the directives so that by 2020 as far as the European mixture is concerned, we have adopted a new model of electricity with changes both in the market and in the networks. Spatial planning organisation focusing on the Land register, spatial planning and land use. Completion of the objective of making our country a regional energy hub and expansion with international pipelines and commercial roads in the energy sector. I would also like to focus on the example of the TECF, which, in fact, shows the differences in the perception and pursuits of an investment. Firstly, the IPCC was sold in 2013 by 66% to 'SOCAR' and was never approved by the European Union, because according to Union law, it is inconsistent for someone to be a producer and also to be a distributor. Secondly, 17% of this takeover had therefore to be transferred to a strategic investor and it was not intended for the producer to participate in the management of the company. There was an increase of 68% - listen - of gas tariffs at the expense of the production of the Greek economy, in breach of European directives on the fixing and calculation of prices, which we spent in the summer. In other words, we have applied EU law and this Leody agreement against the Greek State, it has ceased to be beneficial to the Azerbaijani company. In the question a spokesman of the Vice-President, although he is not here, I respond that the auction will only be repeated in 2017 and will be successful and that will be what it should be. It will not, in other words, be in a colonial logic. I shall conclude, ladies and gentlemen, because I have gone far beyond my time. The 2017 budget that we are debating today is balanced and realistic. It is a plan that will bring our country a step closer to exiting the memoranda and surveillance. It's the key to getting out of the crisis. We are aiming at merity, credibility, to restore investor confidence. 2017 will be a year of turning the economy. We'll get out of the crisis with society standing up. As a great modern Greek poet, Mark Mescos, says: "We plant little expectations on our way to move with them actively and optimisticly". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u459	Thank you. Now Mr Kavvada, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u460	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have read in detail the forecasts for the economic policy that the government intends to implement next year, as described in the second SYRIZA - ANEL budget. One wonders, Minister, if you had in mind Greece, when you arrived at these figures, and if you thought about the Greek taxpayer or a citizen of another country. You have voted for tax measures amounting to EUR 2.6 billion and only 3%, i.e. just EUR 79 million, to cost savings, and 97% to increase and impose new taxes. In fact, indirect taxes are increasing by EUR 1.4 billion. We are talking about the most unfair taxes they already pay and will pay the Greek households. I am thinking of increasing food, coffee, cigarettes, wine, beer, diesel and heating, fixed and mobile telephony, agricultural products, all the products of first need that move the market. The result is that the state does not collect because the world has limited its markets, increased tax evasion and closed thousands of businesses. It is obvious that, with these ratios, we are talking about a budget for the centralised, which, if anything, chokes the Greek taxpayer, creates a more suffocating environment in the economy and cultivates recession and poverty. One wonders what return you expect these measures to have, at the time when due payments to taxes and funds are increasing - they already exceed EUR 91 billion - and the public's available income has been reduced. Apart from the figures, it is one wonders how you imagine that the daily life of Greek citizens will be shaped by all these measures. It is paradoxical that a left government, not counting social costs, and no mattering who's pockets, is taking the money. Ladies and gentlemen, one wonders how the government budgets growth to 2.7% for next year. I wish! We wish and wish nothing else. But where will this development be fuelled? I will not talk about magical recipes, but we and all the Greeks would also like to explain to us the new economic theory that you discovered and escaped from our conception. Because economic theory that provides for growth without the basic conditions being met, I do not think there will be any. I ask: How will the market work when new taxes deplete the available income? How will consumption increase, when there are millions of unemployed and any increase in employment is mainly from four months of work and even poorly paid? How will investment, when the private sector is over-taxed, increase the contributions to the insurance funds, the public does not pay its debts, which, from EUR 3.8 billion in 2014, amounted to EUR 6.2 billion today? The most important thing is that structural change and militarisation are delaying. In order to achieve growth, ladies and gentlemen, we must not only meet these simple conditions, but also require reforms and areas, which the government does not aim or want, as it has shown, to implement. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, the real economy is narrowing, the family budgets have collapsed and the government's bonus that is preparing not only for 2017, which we are discussing today, but also for after 2018 is even heavier. The government celebrates the Eurogroup agreement on debt relief, which we do not know how it will be formed and does not confess that it failed to close the second assessment by 5 December, as it said. He does not admit that, in essence, he has agreed to a new memorandum. He does not admit that instead of tearing the memorials, he is preparing to sign a new Memorandum that will bear only the signature of the SYRIZA - ANLE. It does not admit that the surpluses in 3.5% of GDP agreed - for how long we do not know, for three, or ten years - are new measures, taxes, cuts and cruel austerity. This will be the case, ladies and gentlemen, of the SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence before leaving power, in Greek society and in the next government that will manage the economy. Because no matter how much they try to keep the chair of power, they'll soon abandon it. Before that, however, they will have promised the Greeks in conditions of cruel austerity for many years, because 3.5% of GDP requires new wage cuts and pensions and a reduction in the tax on creditors. This is the reality and no matter how much the government tries to reverse it, like the 'OH' of the referendum, it will not succeed. Gentlemen of the Government, be sure that we and all the Greeks remember exactly what you have been saying. I will stand up to two phrases by the Prime Minister in his speech last year on the budget. Mr Tsipras said - I am reading exactly the phrase - 'The aim is a deep and radical transformation of the country's economic, productive and social model'. It also claimed that the budget was the prospect of gradual social transformation, which is necessary for the well-being of citizens. The well-being of the citizens, ladies and gentlemen of the cohabitation, which you have borne, is translated after a year by the Prime Minister's statements and two years of government of the Left, to millions of unemployed, to thousands of entrepreneurs, small and large, to thousands of Greeks living below the poverty line, to thousands of Greeks who migrate, to thousands of businesses that are renowned, to capital restrictions that remain - the capital controls - to secondary pensions that are reduced, to austerity and taxes that are "treating" the body of citizens, to public debts to private individuals who are increasing, to PPC and EEAS queues for debt regulation, labour insecurity and fear, fear and terror for the day that will dazzle in every house. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the social transformation you have achieved. That's the prosperity you've given the world. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, the Prime Minister, in his friendly tactics, from here the Step has gone and still has much to eat. Close your eyes and lie ahead of the indignation of the Greeks. You are ready to impose new unbearable measures and you do not see the polls, which show that more than 70% of Greeks feel anger, shame and indignation about your politics. Be sure that the indignation of the world will grow with the new measures you bring with the budget, which is undevelopmental and socially unfair. That is why I am voting against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u461	Now I'm going to give the floor to the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, Mr. Alexis Haritsis, for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u462	Madam President, if I can have some time tolerance, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u463	Of course, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u464	Thank you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the 2017 budget is a cut in the years of the crisis. It recommends a cut because, as we were committed, the national part of the Public Investment Programme is significantly increasing, from EUR 750 million to EUR 1 billion. The national part - I would remind you - of the Public Investment Programme had fallen very sharply, there had been very great cuts, especially in the crisis after 2010. It increased, of course, in the budget restrictions we faced, from the 700 million to the 750 million this year and for 2017, there is a very significant increase to EUR 1 billion. In total, the Public Investment Program, co-financed and national, was fully executed in 2015, is also executed without losses in 2016, and will be executed in 2017 on the basis of government planning. We are working so that the resources that will be influencing the real economy, have a real impact on these difficult conditions and give those developmental impulses to the Greek economy, which will turn it into a new direction of fair and sustainable development. For this to happen, on the one hand, we have ensured the rational and sound management of the available resources, which - you will allow me to say - should, of course, be regarded as self-evident, but, unfortunately, all the previous years alone was not self-evident. I will, however, come back to this. On the other hand, we have set specific priorities for all available financial instruments so that we can achieve our development goals. All of this is a complete break with the logic and practice of the past. Here you will allow me, because I have heard suggestions from Vice-Population MPs that the so-called'success story' of the Samara government, which was brutally interrupted by our Government, to refer to the situation that we received in 2015 in connection with the programmes. First of all, in relation to the NRP. Until the last day of 2014 and in 2015, during an election period, projects of the NSRF were included in the NSRF programmes in excess of all budgets and all logic without any planning, without any guarantee of their maturity and, above all, without any approved credit. That is why I am tabling the relevant documents in the Minutes. Over EUR 2 billion were integrated in December 2014 and EUR 200 million in the 2015 election period, with zeros in all of these projects - I repeat - credits. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Economy and Development, Mr Alexandros Haritsis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] The result of this procedure was to receive programmes characterised by overcompensation amounting to EUR 6 billion. What does this EUR 6 billion overcompensation mean? That if we were to complete the implementation of these programmes, as planned, without exalting them up, that is, we would have a budgetary bomb in our hands, which would even exceed all the financial adjustment measures provided for in the third memorandum. This was therefore the situation in relation to the NRP for the period 2007-2013, which we received at the beginning of 2015. In development laws there was a similar situation. Totally irresponsible overcompensation. Over six thousand investment projects were integrated without guaranteeing their funding. Six and a half billion are the debts for all the projects that have been left in the air. I am presenting for the Minutes as a whole for all the relevant data. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Economy and Development, Mr Alexandros Haritsis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] At the same time, the department responsible, the Directorate-General for Private Investment, was in a state of dissolution. It could not exercise any effective control over investment projects and investors' obligations, and there was also control over the services of the European Commission and all relevant European funds at its disposal had been frozen. In relation to the design in all three previous development laws - 1998, 2004 and 2011 - we had a design which, by 95%, directed the resources available to low-tech investment, with the lion's share going to minimal major investment projects. The figures show that 4% of investment projects received almost half of the funds available under the previous three development laws. However, those who were available in 2011 and 2012 through a special provision for the advance payment of the investment projects were granted to very few investment projects, very few large investments, before they even started their implementation. In the financial instruments, however, which were implemented in the previous period, management followed exactly the same logic. In fact, there were "sufficient" resources amounting to 1.5 billion euros, which never reached the real economy, but which, however, were used to show a virtual absorption in order to improve the picture of the absorption of global programmes. Overall, this situation shows that it is a challenge to be called by Opposition, that there has been a pro-investment policy in previous years. All this unprecedented disinvestment which occurred in the Greek economy especially in the period 2010-2014 was obviously the result of concrete policies and did not engender as a natural phenomenon. What we have done, however, to tackle this situation, first of all in relation to the ESDP programmes: we have proceeded with the resolution of all programmes so that we can reduce national obligations and speed up the implementation of projects that have remained in the programmes. At the same time, we ensured favourable conditions for the closure of the period 2007-2013, in agreement with the European Commission, as part of the overall negotiation made by our Government with institutions. This is, of course, a well-known result. We don't need to talk much about that. It is the absorption record at the end of 2015 and Greece's first in relation to the absorption of the relevant resources. Because we have again started a debate on this subject and a debate on the Minutes and official information from the European Commission. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Economy and Development, Mr Alexandros Haritsis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] At the same time, the process of activation of the programs of the new NRP 2014-2020 programming period began, where Greece was the first country to activate all programmes, which today at the end of 2016 have been activated by more than 50%. This means, in fact, that in 2017, the expenditure to be incurred through the co-financed programmes will be very important. We can say that in 2017, it will be the year for most of the new ESDP expenditures to be implemented. They will therefore invade money into the real economy, both through entrepreneurship support actions and through environmental and infrastructure projects and the actions of the social pillar in strengthening employment, education and health. This procedure for disbursing the relevant expenditure has already started in 2016. The objective which we originally set for the absorption of 7% of the available Community funds, with the request for payment which we will make at the end of the year, will be achieved with this. In order to have a comparison here, because much talk is being done about the absorption of the resources of the new programming period, I would remind you that at the corresponding point in the previous programming period, that is, at the end of 2009, we all realise that the economic conditions were also much more favourable - the absorption rate was just 1.5%. Overall, the National Public Investment Programme for 2017 will reach EUR 6,75 billion. It is the highest amount after 2010. The resources for the co-financing programmes are EUR 5.75 billion, and as I said before, EUR 1 billion is for the National Public Investment Programme. You will allow me to stand here for a moment, because this is a very important development for us. This increase is very critical, because it enables us, through the National Public Investment Programme, to implement projects specifically at local level, which cannot be implemented by other financial resources due to regulatory constraints. So projects will be carried out, including the maintenance and expansion of social infrastructure, the provision of emergency needs, such as natural disasters - which we have experienced very recently - and social policy programmes to support vulnerable groups and to strengthen employment. In this process we attach particular importance to the participation of local communities themselves in the decision-making process, because they are the ones who are best aware of their needs and priorities. So we are taking the initiative and establishing specific development programmes, starting from the two Aegean regions, the Aegean islands, where we have just sent letters to both self-government and productive bodies in these regions, so that we can combine these specific programmes with full accountability and transparency under the coordination of our Ministry. Overall we are establishing mechanisms for the National Public Investment Programme for transparency and control of the progress of projects similar to those in force for the NRP. We believe - and this is very crucial for us - that we do not have the possibility - especially in current conditions - of any scope for loose management, as has been the case in the past, of the resources available to us. Similarly, we are called upon to resolve an unresolved equation. On the one hand, to heal the pathogens of the past, to which I referred before, but on the other hand, to ensure an important tool for the Greek economy in the years ahead. We have therefore found the solutions - and this is provided for in the new law - by introducing partial payments, in order to gradually repay the thousands of projects that had been left in the air from the previous laws, while at the same time organizing the relevant service so that it can respond to its work and proceed with the implementation of the new law. For the new law to say, the first four schemes that have been activated are of great interest to businesses. A significant number of investment projects have already been submitted, and even more over the next period, and indeed in a different logic in relation to the past, with the priority being given to small and medium-sized enterprises, with investment in research and technology, but also in priority areas such as agri-food and information technology. Apart from the financial instruments available, however, we are also creating new ones, because, of course, deinvestment in the previous period must be dealt with by attracting new resources. So, as we had committed ourselves in the previous period, in the activation of new funds, the Entrepreneurship Fund and a new Finance Fund, and in the next few days the agreement is concluded and the relevant contract with the European Investment Fund for the new Participation Fund, the FUND OF FUNDS, where funds are raised from the NSRF, the Investment Fund, the European Investment Bank and specialised private funds. This fund - you will allow me to say - is characterised by high innovation and is of great importance. That is why the Investment Fund, the EIF itself, considers that such an initiative, with such characteristics and on such an extent, should be used as an example for other countries. Of these funds, a total of EUR 1 billion will be directed to the real economy, plus another EUR 1 billion from the leverage of these funds with private funds. In the first quarter of 2017, two more important tools will be activated, the new Infrastructure Fund and the new Microcredit Fund. Overall - and that is what you want is an important sign of the change in the economic climate and the confidence shown by the European financial institutions in the prospects of the Greek economy - we have made agreements of EUR 2.5 billion with the European Investment Bank, of which 1.5 billion has already been disbursed, while the programming for 2017 provides for new agreements exceeding EUR 2.5 million. The financial efforts I have described are part of a more comprehensive effort, which has to do with changing the economic climate and creating a different, more favourable economic environment, for the establishment and development of dynamic and innovative enterprises and production units. This objective, beyond the financial instruments, also serves our institutional interventions. I would remind you of the bills that were passed and made by the State very recently in connection with the authorisation of businesses, the simplification of the procedures for setting up these companies and the abolition of bureaucracy, as well as the bill which we will bring to Parliament shortly on the procedures for monitoring and monitoring the market. In conclusion, I would like to say this: the macroeconomic prospects of the Greek economy for the first time in the six years of the crisis seem to be quite important, I would say, prosperous. This is something that the Greek Government is not only saying. It is something that all international organisations and rating agencies are accredited to do. However, away from us the logic of'success story' and celebrations, when we know that social reality remains, for the majority of our fellow citizens, very difficult. We know very well that everyday life is facing great difficulties by the citizens of this country. That is why the basic bet for us cannot be one of our efforts - and that is where these efforts are directed - the recovery of the Greek economy has a substantial impact on the social majority, firstly, of course, calling for the reduction of unemployment and the strengthening of employment, an unemployment which reached unprecedented levels in the five-year period 2010-2014. We know that society judges us with very strict criteria - and it does very well - because it requires us to defend its interests. We believe that there is nothing to expect from the hard neoliberalism and from the return of the old system of power. With a plan and hard effort, we will respond to the expectations of society and above all, to the strata of those who have been excessively affected by the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u465	Mrs Triantafyllou, Member of the SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u466	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this time a play is being played in Athens. He has been involved in the last days of Nikos Zachariadis, the retrospective Nikos Zachariadis. What's he saying? He says: “All other things can be lost by others. What each one of us loses himself is his dignity." This is a comment on the previous situation, fighting and laughing during plenary. The budget debate is continuing in the middle of a critical time for the country and the European Union. The letters to the Prime Minister, which show - all nonetheless - that some are nervous and, above all, displeased by the SYRIZA's residence in the country's governance. Some are inside, however, mostly outside Greece. Of course, this is not about how good social policy works or whether it builds on socialism. In addition, polling, measuring and shaping public opinion, political advisers and managers want to define policies, slogans and controversies. "Exodus Mitsotakis – introvert Tsipras". In this context and the criticality of the times, everything will be redefined and each one of us, with everything they carry, remains to prove its value and social usefulness vis-à-vis others. I will try to talk about some foreign policy issues. Today what do we have? Crisis transfer to regional wars, self-reliance of regional forces, old and so new, for borders which are light and hollow, imperialistic attacks, divisions of sovereign states in our neighbourhood and in the European Union in the recent past, application of international law by two metres and two weights, changes of borders despite declarations, caravans from refugee flows, the European Union weak and inappropriate to the best, but, above all, repressive and neoliberal, exports democracy, that is, wars. Greek-Turkish at a critical turn with the inability SYRIZA, says New Democracy. And the recent placement of Samara: "They find and do it." Remember, who was the Minister when he opened the matter of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia? Which government? The Minister for Foreign Affairs was Samaras and the government was New Democracy. Who made specific relations with Albania? Minister for Foreign Affairs was Samaras, the government of New Democracy. And yesterday I heard a colleague from the New Democracy talking about the SYRIZA failures on the refugee issue, a matter admittedly very critical, pan-European and international, with specific causes, the imperialist attacks alone. We need proposals, we need proposals. But do you remember how many were there? - about fifteen thousand refugees in the port of Piraeus and diverted from Kostas Karamanlis? Refugees even came before the crisis, fewer or more. And, of course, how many people entered the country in 1990, under what conditions and with what agreements? Moreover, what Minister for Foreign Affairs has Father Mitsotakis expelled? Do you remember the statements? He expelled him not as incompetent, but as dangerous, if I remember well. Then I think Father Mitsotakis was looking for something payroll of journalists. I don't remember if he found them. How reliable, active and multidimensional foreign policy we had! What Foreign Minister was in the Samara government? What did he do during the Greek Presidency? I only remember it was a rush to recognize, say, things in Ukraine. But you know what? When a person easily recognises border changes, then he cannot criticise the creation of hors d'oeuvres. In relation to Greek-Turkish: Turkey since 1974, with the invasion of Cyprus, seeks and creates military feats and prepares them, facilitates and maintains them with diplomatic activity. The responsibility of the Constitutional Judas in relation to Cyprus is obvious. All over the period, with an intensity mainly after 1990, violations are recorded. In 1996, the theory of grey areas was created, a direct challenge to the Lausanne Treaty of 1928 and Paris in 1947. Imia was the peak of Turkish provocativeness and Greek endemicism. It is unacceptable for a Greek Prime Minister even as a rumour to be heard that he said that the flag of the Imios took it and continued his career. I am not saying anything about 1983 and the proclamation of false rulers. I want to be fair. It was the beginning of PASOK, and maybe there was an attempt to scavenge it. What is the role of the Berne Agreement in 1976 and the Madrid Declaration in 1987? How did they affect our sovereign rights? Think of how they influenced the AEZ and how they influenced the legitimate vital interests in the Aegean, which are never identified. Why do I report all this? Firstly, we need to know how tensions and claims are created and evolving. Because beyond the large picture, capitalism - imperialism, there are the individual political choices that weaken and strengthen something. Furthermore, I would like to remind you that when the people were determined and convinced of the need for the anti-imperialist struggle, some people said that the dilemma was Karamanlis or tanks. The policy pursued by the Greek governments towards Turkey was at best to be quiet. Turkish provocation is not new. She was, and she's a timer. And therefore, in an area where land reclassifications are like a stock exchange, we all need another attitude. If the status quo is questioned in our area, then with mathematical accuracy sometime our turn will come if we stay inactive. And I would like to pay attention to the following: the Treaty of Lausanne is not disputed by Turkey alone in relation to Greece. He intervened in Syria and practically questioned Lausanne. And I want that to be remembered. In Cyprus, above all, we have said that it is a question of invasion and occupation. Its resolution is a top national priority with obvious importance for Greek-Turkish relations. A sustainable solution is needed and based on International Law. The most important thing is to preserve the democratic right of the Cypriot people to have final control and decision on all issues. I would like to make a comment on Europe very briefly and thank you in advance for the tolerance. Europe around the issue of the Greek economy seems to be moving on with a normality, at the same time as decisions, proposals for debt regulation, even if they contain positive points, is not enough to bring the economy of the country to a better position with society upright. The biggest problem at the moment is the European idea itself, which is under attack by old friends and enemies. In this project, all that seems to exist is the Symble Plan, which says, not much or less, that we are satelliteing even more of the economies that we support and show some tolerance to democratic pragmatic choices only with the absolutely necessary and only social policy doses. In this context and until Europe decides what it will do, it becomes clear that its people are responding conservatively and increasingly Eurosceptic. We need to be careful. Our country must not be turned from a laboratory to a left rabbit. What does that mean? It is certain that there are economic and political agreements within the European Union that need to be complied with. It is certain that they wanted to try whether Greece would endure accelerating and suffocating the European Union and the European Central Bank under the leadership of the most conservative circles. They wanted to try if we could handle it. Now that they are broken, they want another Greek government to make the rabbit for a new vision of the European Union with doses perhaps from Latin America. We must not allow it. How? Reconstruction at all levels. There is land waiting to be left in the dying, retired villages and citizens, especially young people, who do not fit or have a home, who are not working or made redundant, who can no longer make the cafeteria in urban or tourist centres.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u467	Finish it, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u468	I shall conclude, Madam President. They can and must be helped to root. They can live on a decent job. We must be bold on that. Let us dare to become an example in liberal Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u469	We are now entering the 11th circle of speakers. Mrs Elisabeth Skoufa, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u470	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2017 budget is key, as it comes to a vote in a year when it is expected that the benefits of the effort of the government and citizens will be apparent and the economy returns to growth. Let us not forget that the government's objective is a visible way out of the crisis with society upright. With regard to this year's budget, the primary objective in the health sector for 2017 is to contain expenditure and their fullest control. Modernisation, rationalisation of public health expenditure will have a positive impact on budget figures. Central intervention in this effort is the establishment of a central authority for procurement in public health by which there will now be central control of material needs, the possibility of meeting these needs, and finally transparency in the procurement regime. The main priority is also the reduction of outstanding debts with a view to strengthening public credibility as a contracting party, but also to boosting liquidity in the market. In particular, there is provision for the repayment of late payment of hospital debts of 587 million. In terms of operational planning, direct grants to hospitals are consistently maintained last year. There is a specific provision in the budget for strengthening the health, social protection and education sectors of 300 million. The budget also contains an increase from the Public Investment Programme for the Ministry of Health, from 26 million in 2016 to 70 million in 2017. These expenditures from the Public Investment Programme in respect of hospitals will go to mental health equipment and structures in particular, while emphasising more generally the costs of mental health structures, the fight against drugs, the shielding of public health and the treatment of emergency health situations. In this direction let us remember that, even in 2016, for the first time after six Memorandum years, the budget was increased by 300 million for hospitals, by 500 million for EEAY, which is the other pillar of the system, and this was, of course, translated into concrete actions that strengthened the public health system, which has gone through and unfortunately still has a major crisis. As far as human resources were concerned, from last October until today, they have taken up duty, that is to say, seven hundred and fifty-five posts since the first notice of permanent staff made in October 2015, sixty-three years of late invitations to tender for recruitment, sixty-two doctors and two-sixty-fifths of nurses for intensive care units through CEDEFOP, three hundred and thirty-five persons from the May notice of subsidiary-other hospitals, two hundred-fifths of managerial staff since 1998, eighty-sixty-eighty-six people in the CEDEF and thirty-three new recruitments in the Santorini Hospital. In the course of the tenders already made it is to appoint three thousand eighty-eighty people, of which one hundred from the 4K and 5K notices of October 2015, two hundred fifty ancillary staff, seven hundred from the 1998 ADP, six hundred ninety permanent staff from the second Ministerial Council of Thousands of Thousands of thirty-eight, for whom the temporary results have been obtained, seventy-sixty permanent doctors, eighty doctors from old notices, eight hundred people through the AMIF programme to deal with the refugee programme, for which the funding has already been obtained and the posts have been opened through the CPT. At the same time, from new proclamations in December eight hundred and forty-eight people from the second Act of Ministerial Council of the remaining five hundred and thirty-eight, another thousand forty-five permanent staff, a hundred eighty-five nurses and forty-five doctors from the rest of CEDEFOP's Intensive Treatment Units and two thousand doctors from Genaris - February 2017, for whom an act of the Ministerial Council has already been adopted. We must stress that the government is moving towards a rapid implementation of four thousand jobs in the health system with twelve-month contracts, for which despite the fact that the original financing plan was lost after the call for television licences had been cancelled, it was covered by a redistribution of national funds and the OAED cash available. The total cost of the programme is 65 million for two thousand eight hundred nursing staff and a thousand two hundred jobs in other categories of workers in public hospitals. The relevant CYR was published last Friday and the notice will come out on December 12th. It is important to report that this is the first time the OAED has made such a programme for the unemployed with full pay, basic salary, hospital allowance and cyclical hours. In all of this, the high proportion of primary health is added with the funding of 140m euros from the ESRB since January, which allowed for pilot implementation, finally the promotion of two hundred seventy units of health in sixty-five cities, for which new recruitments are envisaged. It is therefore a clear and fully established desire for the government, which is implemented by the Ministry of Health's leadership to strengthen the public health system, so that the citizens of the country enjoy their services. We, ladies and gentlemen, move on to policy with concrete actions rather than words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u471	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Prime Minister has made a proclamation announcing the distribution of surpluses to the low pensioners, as well as the suspension of VAT on the islands affected by the refugee problem, thus covering - from what I am reading here - the entire surplus of 2016, which the 2016 budget had won.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u472	Madam President, can I have the floor for a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u473	Do you want anything, Mr. Teddy? Here you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u474	Yes, Madam President, for the order of business, and thank you. I just want to comment on this: it is almost unusual - because I too have been informed of the content of the Prime Minister's statement by my colleague in the House - it is rather strange that Parliament's Prime Minister is meeting on the budget, that he does not choose Parliament's step to announce something that is essentially about both the economy and the budget, but rather that he chooses the televisions. I fear that this Parliament is not honouring us, I imagine it will tell us on Saturday. I imagine parliamentarians will have to find out after the rest of the Greeks!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u475	It can also be technical, Mr. Treasury, it must be done very quickly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u476	It's not technical, Madam President, it's all right, I don't want to ruin your grace.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u477	Madam President, we have to say something.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u478	I've been up-to-date. I saw it now, and I thought I'd make a briefing, since we're locked out here and we can't have...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u479	And you did very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u480	I don't know anything else about what I told you. Two yards, announce.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u481	We must say something, Madam President, even for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u482	You want to say something? I don't have any more information to open a dialogue. Here you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u483	It is a great impression, Madam President, that while the budget provides for a reduction in pensions for 2017 by 1,6 billion, it comes today and makes a bill for 617 million for the low-pensioners. In any case, this is a mockery - to say this - for the low-pensioners and we should be told what it is doing today and whether it will change what the budget provides for the reduction of pensions in 2017.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u484	I think that explanations will be given by both the relevant ministers and the Prime Minister and the other competent bodies. At the moment, I think it's some measures that should make us all happy. I don't think we can have any further debate now. Mr Kalafatis, Member of the New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u485	Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a budget this evening which represents a regression and that does not change with what the President has just told us, regarding the announcements that have a strong election climate for the Prime Minister, and which, of course, announcements are in complete contrast with what we are currently discussing within the budget. If the Prime Minister wants to confirm that he is a measure of regularity, this credit can be credited to him. The question is when you have the responsibility as Prime Minister of the country to run the country and drive it as quickly as possible with firm and responsible steps outside the crisis, certainly this logic and this tactic, which the Prime Minister has chosen, does not lead to this road, leads to a completely opposite direction, which is, of course, stigmatized by irresponsibleness and, if you like, complete tacticalism, something that does not help the country at all. In relation to the budget, first of all, ladies and gentlemen, the figures contained in terms of growth in Europe, compared to ours, show how far back we were in the first two years of the first left. At the end of 2014, we had reached the highest growth rate in a Europe that was just beyond the material indicators. The current government recognises this in the text of the budget which we are discussing. In fact, in a year when the GDP of the euro area was increasing 1.1%, Greece was closing in the year, moving over half. He reached the last quarter of 2014 growth rate 1,7, which was then the highest in the Eurozone. Today, two years later, the Eurozone is expected to close in 2016 with 1.7 GDP growth. Greece, respectively, and according to optimistic estimates, will close the time with a negative figure of 0.3%. As much as SYRIZA's colleagues are trying to enjoy this fact, the reality does not change. They took us back and I am very afraid that as long as the policies ahead of the 2017 budget continue, we will continue to waste time, because only utopian can the budget estimate for growth from 0.3% to +2.7% during a tax armaged for households and business. The reduction of incomes, the retreat and further undermining of entrepreneurship, the counter-incentives, which face every investment effort, are not the ingredients of a development recipe. I will not go into the details of the tax cressette and income level involved in the budget. However, I will focus on some aspects of the development wishing to be included in the budget, because, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about abundant and conscious political actions. This is what is happening so far, which does not allow optimism, neither for intentions nor for the ability of the government to achieve the goals it sets itself. I read the target of increasing investment by 9.1%, and I thought it was a typographic error, because the government's course so far pushes investors out, despite attracting them. Here, ladies and gentlemen, an investment in the port of Thessaloniki cannot or dare to release a year now. With constant postponements in the procedures they remove candidate investors, they try the patience of those who have left and despair the prospect of a development pillar based in the city, but have mentioned the broader development of the north, and not only, Greece. This is solely due to the ideological abhorrence of a government against privatization and private investment, coupled with the general impossibility of administering such important projects. And the greetings don't hide that, because there's the things, or to be more precise, probably the untrue ones that testify to it. Ladies and gentlemen, on many points the budget text is an example of irony. The government partners, which considered Farage and the other architects of Brexit in the British referendum to be allies, today invoke an increase in economic and political uncertainty as an impact of the British referendum on the formation of the global growth rate of the economy. Isn't it ironic? This government, unfortunately, is part of the problem in Europe, ladies and gentlemen, and not part of the solution. Unfortunately, in Greece now the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is the problem. It invokes the future use of European funds with emphasis on Greece's participation in the investment project for Europe and the so-called 'Yunker package'. Really, how does he guarantee that? As guaranteed in the first year of operation of EFSI, which is the core of the investment project for Europe? May I remind you what the relevant report presented by the Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr Catanen, revealed? Of the EUR 3.5 billion allocated for a hundred forty-one thousand eight hundred European small and medium-sized enterprises, Greece accounts for only EUR 4 million for a hundred and twenty-one businesses. That's what Mr. Katinen said. Do you know why? Because no one has been involved in timely and diligent in order for the banking system to play the necessary mediation role in the development of EFSI for Greek entrepreneurship. The government was absent, and this is how Greece loses one chance after another. It was such that the Greeks could be persuaded that the evil Europe has only memorials from which SYRIZA will relieve us, who have demonstratedly ignored all the positive and available development tools that Europe provides. And the culmination was for the SYRIZA - ANEL Government to consolidate a Memorandum of Understanding between Greece and Europe and the International Monetary Fund by 2060, because it was in the recent Eurogroup, no matter how hard it was for some to pour it out. Even in the NSRF, the government has a virtual reality. She's talking about triggering programs to hide her own deactivation. Everyone knows activation doesn't mean absorption. Activation is a condition concerning stages of preparation and certainly does not ensure funds that remain at risk of loss up to the absorption stage. A public procurement law was passed that has completely depressed the implementation of the ESRB because it was voted without the supporting material to accompany it being ready. Of course, it is an example of the "Transport Infrastructure, Environment and Sustainable Development" programme. It is the largest programme in the country co-financed by the European Union, a programme prepared by the New Democracy, with maturity of projects. And yet, in the twenty-one months that runs, the government has a pitiful record, and it has not even activated 1 euro of the funds allocated to projects in the regions. Unfortunately, at the risk of future loss of funds, the government is not even able to make use of the millions of euros that it has found on the plate since the previous day. These and many more similar view the European Commission and the OECD and other international organisations that end up not sharing the Greek Government's over-optimistic forecasts of the growth index for 2017. On the contrary, they place the cubit quite low, where we were actually approaching in 2014, only there to get there will we be weaker and more struggled as a society and a state than a government that is distinguished for bishop theory, but a heart of mills in all the major areas that the country needs to step on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u486	I'm so excited.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u487	He's our hero, our symbol.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u488	Mr. Nassos Athanasios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u489	Thank you, Madam President. In order for dialogue to take place there must be common ground. There is something called ELSTAT, something called EUROSTAT. How can you make a dialogue with, in particular, the Opposition that forgets that we have two continuous quarters with a positive development mark? Last July, the Bank of Greece in a study on migrant Greeks reported that we had to see a positive sign since 2007. Now that we have two continuous quarters of development and we go for the third, when we come out of the recession and no one recognizes it from the opposition, how do you dialogue? How to make dialogue when ironing 2.7 of the growth provided for in the budget for 2017. A fellow Member wondered which scientists are, what economic theory is - what econometric models would be the right - to make such a percentage? Well, the International Monetary Fund provides for a greater, i.e. 2.8. And how to make dialogue when some - and part of the public - forget that the second memorandum agreed by the New Democracy provided a surplus of 4.2 for 2016, 4.5 for 2017 and 4.2 for 2018. What does that mean? 4.2 means 6.5 billion meters, 4.5 billion meters mean 5.3 billion meters, 4.5 billion meters for 2018 means 2 billion meters. How do you dialogue when we don't admit the facts? Well, leave the predictions. But overlooking the facts or even the successes achieved with the blood of the Greek people? These two continuous quarters of development were achieved with the blood of the Greek people. Do you despise it? You throwing it away? Anyway, there are serious people in the New Democracy, not only the coconuts. So within a minimum of time I will try to answer three questions: what happened, what could happen and what could happen. What happened? One of the greatest bankruptcys of all time, one of the greatest crises ever experienced in a developed country, a crisis that its consequences have even exceeded those of the economic crisis of 1929. Why did this bankruptcy happen? According to Regulation 472 of the European Union, Article 7(9), this House must investigate who ate them, how they ate them, along with who they ate them. There are two UN reports on Greece. Both reports call on the Greek governments to carry out independent and transparent checks in order to determine the causes of overcompensation and to account for those responsible for this development. What do you say, European friends of the New Democracy? Will we comply with Regulation 472 of the European Union? What do you say, defenders - rightly - of UN decisions, see Cyprus? Will we be meeting the United Nations request? There goes what happened. What's going on now? Beyond the reversal of the economic climate - we are not celebrating, but it is a reversal - there is an attempt to close the second assessment, to vote in favour of this emergency budget, to regulate the debt, to enter into quantitative relaxation and to take trials on the markets, not once, but now, March - April. Is this an attempt a policy of a ruling party, of the SYRIZA, or is it a national objective and indeed a great national objective? Who can dispute that this is a national objective? I can't wait to hear him. Couldn't that be our common goal, gentlemen of the Great Opposition? On the basis of the fact that it is a national objective, I come to the third question. What could happen? The New Democracy is calling for elections. What's the result? The second assessment will be interrupted, the description of the other debt measures will go after 2018, the quantitative relaxation will be cancelled and we will not go out on the markets. So the commission will continue. Does anyone really wonder, is our provincialism improper? They're so ruthlessly exploiting a society that's hurting. There are also serious people in the New Democracy. There are good signs that it is difficult to erase by the gluttonous populists of a party who have sometimes devoured the rigour of political morals and periodically the scientific inflammation of its economists. During the 42nd anniversary of the founding of the New Democracy, Mr Meimarakis issued a communication stating: "The protracted political and economic crisis imposes change of policy and national consultation on critical issues". Does the leading team of New Democracy accept that? Is that bad? I'd like to close up with you. Times are wicked. I will mention two incidents that come from the German side and which I have tried to investigate as President of the Committee on Greek-German Friendship. Deutsche Bank is a bank that made a deceit. The Americans say it, not me. He took mortgage loans at high risk, titrated them and sold them. The US Ministry of Justice is coming in and says: 'Four billion I want, Mrs Deutsche Bank'. It is the Head of Deutsche Bank, Mr John Kryan, who says: 'I warn you about a turbulence after the Italian referendum'. Who says what? Repeat: The times are wicked. The most prominent, according to their description, economist, Germany, Hans Verner Zin, said two weeks ago: "It is a matter of time for Italy to exit the euro. It did not improve its competitiveness and can no longer make it through." A lot is done, so we should be careful, so we should have common objectives, so that is why you blame SYRIZA for populism, to think about what each one of you said yesterday and the other, to give them to the political department of a university and say: 'Is this a populism or is this a serious response to a critical situation in our country', a serious treatment from another, sometimes a serious party? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u490	Mr. Aivatidis, Member of the Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u491	6 May 1904: Vladimir Ilich Lenin publishes his book "One step forward, two steps back", otherwise "The Crisis in our Party" as a subtitle. 8 December 2016: Alexis Tsipras, the Greek Prime Minister, announces favourable arrangements. It is a good question why the Communist Party of Greece reacts to these announcements. The ratification of the 2017 state budget by SYRIZA - ANEL was introduced for discussion. This budget is a false development budget. In fact, he is a strong, materialistic, socially analgesic, unfounded over-optimistic, tax - and - centered. It includes new taxes of EUR 2.6 billion, while the sustainability of the insurance system has not been fully guaranteed. On the contrary, he's still insecure. The budget to be ratified is derived from direct taxes of 11.3% of GDP and from indirect taxes of 14.6% of GDP. This percentage is a record showing the social analgesia of the coup d'état and the attempt to legally intercept the Greek citizen's income. The Minister for Economy and Development stated: 'High taxation does not affect competitiveness'. It then made some clarifications, in its opinion, correcting the first mistake by a second mistake. I will submit an article of 'TAX FUNDATION' for the Minutes and I will read two villages only, which I have translated. First, 'taxation is a crucial parameter for a country's international competitiveness'. Secondly, ‘A country can no longer impose high taxes on business investment and activities without adversely affecting its economic performance’. This statement may be a second mistake. If it is not wrong, it is a precursor of further unfavourable measures, I mean further increases in taxation, which will give small businessmen and self-employed entrepreneurs a shot. [[At this point the Member, Mr Ioannis Aivatidis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] A simple overview of the economic indicators in recent years shows that for Greece overtaxation is linked to the country's reduced competitiveness. In 2007, Greece took the forty-seventh place in international competitiveness. In 2016, the eighty-third. In 2007, 20.8% of GDP came from taxes. In 2016, 26.2%. It's obvious, then, the connection. In the new state budget, taxes on natural persons are increased by EUR 1.1 billion. There is a misleading reduction in property taxes of EUR 0,4 billion. But why is this fall in fiction and fraud, of course, also misleading, in our view? In 2016, two instalments of HOPS of 2015 were collected, while only one instalment of HIPS of 2016 will be collected in 2017. Indirect taxes are increasing by EUR 1.3 billion. Consumption taxes are increasing by EUR 0.7 billion. It concerns energy and tobacco products, coffee, fixed telephony. Unfortunately, there are many bad omens for the Greek economy. In tourism, forecasts refer to a 30% precipitation for the cruise in 2017. There has been no government so far, nor has SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence provoke a constructive link between the primary sector and tourism. Another bad omen is about our education. A competition took place in the "PISA" programme with seventy-two countries, which took part, and unfortunately the Greek 15-year-old students ranked in the forty-seventh place from the seventy-two countries in Mathematics, in the same place in Physics and forty-first in understanding text. Exports are really exhausted. It is no longer the businesspeople who are exporting to achieve what they have been able to achieve in this area years. As far as the DESFA is concerned, the fact that the agreement with the Azeros was not finalised is positive. We are urging the state budget of 2017, which is being brutally affected by the Greek people and even further, because it is being tested as known by this prolonged memorial policy and its obstetrics, which is the birthplace, poverty, unemployment, suicide, illegal immigration. As far as illegal immigration is concerned, many among those people who have entered our country are fundamentalists. The other day, in the Joint Judicial Court of Rhodes, a sixty-year-old German was sentenced as a spy of Turkey. This is another given that makes the presence of Golden Dawn very important at the last visit to the group of Megistis very important. Golden Dawn honoured the locust officers, officers and soldiers of the Mississippi and the Navy, the port and the Chief of HNDGS and responded to the invitation of the Minister of Defence. The New Democracy, the PASOK, the Potami, the Association of Centres, the Communist Party of Greece reacted to this. They tried to build up this behavior. But that is a political triviality and nothing else. The Golden Dawn once again proved to be a political ethnic guard movement. He gave this present and will continue to give it to similar visits, which are not only symbolic but also essential in nature, since these visits unfold the already high mind of the Armed Forces and the inhabitants of our country's outermost regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u492	Mrs Vayonakis, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u493	There is no doubt that the 2017 budget is a difficult budget, not only because it is placed under strict rules and restrictions as a result of the 2015 agreement, but also because it seeks to balance between the need for a stable economic environment while supporting economic activity, increasing public investment and the redistribution of available resources to protect our financially most vulnerable compatriots. I would add to this that the budget is submitted to an unstable international environment, where Greece wants and seeks to play a stabilising role, as well as to a European Union where the obsessions of the sovereign elites in the applied Stability and Growth Pact lead to new deadlocks and divergences, increasingly removing the people from the vision of a united Europe. I have, however, heard a number of Vice-Presidents talking about a budget without a question, without a pity. I think that these categories have no basis, firstly because the budget is moving in a positive direction in the critical areas of education and health, since for the second year we have an increase in expenditure in both these areas. 2,80% of the budget for education in 2016 is increased to 2,85% for 2017 and 4,35 billion for health in 2016 is increased to 4.4 billion in 2017. Of course, these figures are not for celebrations. But I would like to remind you that in Mr Samaras' medium-term programme, there were 2.15% for education in 2017. At the same time, the appointment of permanent staff starting after two years in hospitals, the access of our uninsured compatriots, but also other important health measures aimed at restoring the catechism, are very important measures for people's lives and at the same time demonstrate the direction and priorities of the government. In addition, the budget aims to support the weakest. The comparative data from the Directorate-General for Welfare which manages the relevant funds results from the budgets that 820 million was allocated in 2015, including 107 million for the humanitarian crisis in 2016, 990.5 million will be allocated in 2017. At this point I would like to say to the JRC colleagues, who claim that we take them from the poor and give them to the poorest, that a state that wants to protect its citizens must start from the weakest, that is to say, those who have no voice and then the effort must focus on protecting small and medium-sized enterprises. In this respect, I would like to remind you - and it is characteristic - that over 90% of farmers will not pay a tax in 2017 or have a tax refund on the basis of duty-free 8 500-9 000, which we voted on, while small and medium-sized enterprises with an income of less than 20,000 benefit from the new tax-insurance arrangement. Will you tell me, do we have to be happy when the citizens' income is so low? Of course not. And efforts need to be made to raise this income. And that is why, together with the rest, there must be a vision and measures of productive reconstruction in the country. However, when you want to stabilise your economy and live within specific financial indicators, you need to see who you will allocate the negative effects of budgetary measures and yes, we have a class mark in this regard. Thirdly, the budget also has a developmental direction, and this is seen by the increase in the Public Investment Programme - I would remind you that for the second year it has increased by 250 million - it seems from the way the NRP has closed, it is seen by the laws that we have voted on, the development, but also by the social economy, which is distributed and distributed to many and not, as in the past, to a few. Ladies and gentlemen, we must also say some truths, because some people have a selective memory. We can't do that we don't remember what happened in the summer of 2015 -- "This is a coup," strangers said - and we don't understand that after that we can't make simplistic comparisons with the announcements of Thessaloniki. In addition, the elections in September 2015 took place. Secondly, when we talk about the insurance situation, we cannot forget the extermination of the PSI funds. Thirdly, we cannot talk about labour relations and the prevalence of flexible labour relations and forget that they were launched two years 2013-2014 from 33% -35% to 55%. Fourthly, when we talk about unemployment we cannot forget when it was erupted at 27%. I am quoting here: For me, the biggest problem we face as a country is unemployment and this fear of having permanent characteristics. I think that with this problem, yes, our government needs to be considered. One could list many more such selective memories, but I'm stopping here. However, the greatest distortion of reality is the references made to primary surpluses. There is a debate - and rightly so - that the proposal for primary surpluses after 2018 is devastating. Indeed, it is, although the matter remains open. I would remind you that Diaselblum told the Eurogroup that there were nineteen different proposals in this respect. And I would say - in Opposition and in all of us - that together we must fight this issue to reduce primary surpluses after 2018, but imagine how things could be with 3% of 2015 on primary surpluses, 4% of 2016 and 4.5% in 2017 and 2018 as Mr Samaras had signed? Ladies and gentlemen, the times are difficult, they are difficult for Greece, they are difficult for Europe, they are difficult for our neighborhood. Instability prevails. We have to keep the boat upright with a fixed door. Although we know that this requires hard and difficult work, we are determined to stand up and this budget is designed for it, so I urge you to vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u494	Now Mr Katsaniotis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u495	Ladies and gentlemen, the state budget clearly reflects the government's intentions for the economy, its perception of growth and social justice. The budget clearly shows that the current government has set its priorities in such a way as to exclude any optimism for the recovery of our economy and the return to real growth. The left is reluctant that social justice is one of its fundamental values. It is indeed the monopoly in question. The basic instrument for the realisation of social justice is taxation. Through it, the state exercises its redistributive role to alleviate social inequalities and multiply opportunities to the weak. With this budget, the Left Government is taxing as much as it can all and everything. It increases both direct and indirect taxes, these unfair taxes. It is the government's tax bed that makes any discussion about redistribution unrealistic. It cancels the role of the state as a redistributive mechanism for social justice. So this budget is unfair to the weak. Ladies and gentlemen, your budget also has no developmental character. He convicts us to a siege of a single man. The Greek economy is based on a few key development pillars. The agricultural sector is one of them. Let us see in summary what the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has reserved for farmers: wage and pension tax with rates of 22% to 45%. Taxation for the first time on basic agricultural subsidies and subsidies. Increase in tax advance from 75% to 100%. Increasing VAT on agricultural supplies to 24%. A 36.6% increase in the tax that those who collect rents from renting agricultural land will pay. Abolition of the reduction of excise duty on agricultural oil. Finally, to those farmers who will declare annual incomes of more than EUR 12 000 will also be subject to a new reformed special solidarity levy, while subsidies will also be taxed. At the same time, they are ponding 6 billion with a multiplier character to stimulate the local and national economy from the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme. The second pillar of the Greek economy is tourism. SYRIZA - ANEL Government continues to increase also in this area taxes: Increase in VAT at 6.5% to 13%. Increasing VAT on the focus from 13% to 24%. Increase the tax on tourist companies from 26% to 29%. And as if they didn't, from 1-1-2018, the end of the stay is being implemented. Ladies and gentlemen, instead of struggling to alleviate burdens on the areas that can put our economy into a developmental orbit, revenge, punishment, short-sightedness, even more tax burdens, alleviating hopes for a return to growth. With its policy of prosecuting and ideological temptations, the current government has reversed the easing of the tax burdens imposed by the previous government. Perhaps the most characteristic example is the reduction of VAT on the focus achieved by the Samara government, which gave tourism businesses a breath while increasing the State's revenue. Your misfortune canceled this step. He took us back. That is your logic, a left-wing logic that makes this budget apart from unfair and unjust development. Ladies and gentlemen, before I finish, I would like to point out that the budget also has some points that combine its two main flaws, which are both unfair and unjust. Local government reinstates the government's prestigious logic. It reduces resources, and all it cares about is technical changes in the electoral law, so that it can control part-party regions. The state of Athens forms a suffocating cord for the region. It lays down rules for operation and development without a balanced regional logic. A characteristic example is the cost for the first phase of Line 4 of Athens Metro. The funds allocated to expanding the Athens metro, if they were invested in the regions, would change the form of the country. Only the first phase of the 4 metro line in Athens costs 1.2 billion euros. With EUR 1.2 billion, the Region of Western Greece could become another place. All its infrastructure, roads, trains would arrive everywhere. Enhanced projects, drainage and irrigation projects would change the productive potential of the region. With much less money the region's wealth would increase. A wealth that would raise the pie could be taxed, and most importantly it could take us out of the crisis. This option is therefore very characteristic of the logic of your budget as a whole. It perpetuates a logic of atheist concentration. It takes enormous benefits not only from the region, but from the entire Greek economy. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we are not voting for your unjust, anti-developmental, atheist budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u496	Precision in time, Mr. Comrade! Well done. Mr Ioannis Sifakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u497	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the real figures of the economy, which have not been called into question and have not been called into question during this debate, the growth of the economy, the increase in GDP on a 12-month basis, the two consecutive quarters with a positive figure, the increase in investment by 12.6% last year, the increase in exports by 10.2% from last year, the reduction in unemployment, the effects of Eurogroup with short-term measures to reduce the debt that creates objectively a different psychology, are creating a completely different reality from last year and are actually promoting growth, which is estimated at 2.7% in 2017, which is, moreover, only questioned by the constant doubts that are constantly being made. The expected growth of 2017 in combination with the policies that will enable the banking system, in particular following the inclusion of Greek bonds in the quantitative relaxation system, to provide liquidity to the real economy, to small and medium-sized enterprises and to healthy entrepreneurship, can by using the existing instruments, the ESDP, the new development law in the way it has been adopted, of the Agricultural Development Programme 2016-2020 bring about a fair sharing of benefits, share the profits to as many of our fellow citizens as possible. The aim is to produce a new wealth, following the destruction of 30% by the previous governments in a few years, to make it possible at some point to alleviate tax burdens and indirect taxes on people's layers, small and medium-sized enterprises and businesses, to make it possible to effectively differentiate ENVY with the freedom of the people's families and even to relieve the medium-sized strata and free professionals who have suffered great damage over the last seven years and are the main victims of the multi-faceted crisis. Here we can only welcome the Prime Minister's decision a moment ago to pay the surplus of our weakest fellow citizens, the implementation of the promise of the SYRIZA to pay the tenth of the third pension to six hundred low pensioners with a pension of less than 850 euros, and even the suspension of the equalisation of VAT on citizens, to our fellow citizens on the islands of the north-eastern Aegean who have put their breasts, who have saved Europe's dignity to the refugee problem. Of course, no one can say that everything is beautiful and angelically painted, especially when the daily lives of the citizens are really very difficult, when the effects of stabilisation have not yet been seen in their lives, their fiscal capacity is small and unemployment, despite its decline, unfortunately, is still at unthinkable heights, especially in young people. But it is certain that the well-meaning citizen sees the great effort we make, in a drugged landscape, in difficult conditions, with various crises, including refugees, to deal with the difficult situation by keeping the society upright. It sees our daily painful and persistent efforts to solve local problems and to address them to its benefit, away from the reasonable customer relations that dominated them, even in the recent past, our great effort to organise society, the farmer, the farmer, the other social groups, which the old political system wants them broken up, broken up, customers of party and parliamentary offices. It sees our great effort to get another logic into Europe, away from austerity, inequality, decisions behind closed doors, closed borders, which bring nationalism, racism, the total dissolution of the European idea, to lose Europe where a referendum or election takes place. Society, even when disrespecting, has memory and judgment. The citizens remember who brought them here. They are still watching and listening to what you say about thousands of redundancies, about reducing taxes from the wage, pension and social benefits bills, the attitude, particularly of the Officerial Response, regarding the second assessment, the debt, the continuous and uninterrupted election - a colleague of yours the other day, on a panel, told me also the exact date of the elections - your crystal clear and unique aim to restore the rotten and bankrupt system you represent, your muscular desire for the fourth memorandum. The citizens may, in fact, be disappointed and quite disappointed, but you may allow me to say that this is the picture of the moment. They don't come to you, they don't trust you, no matter how much you make, supposedly, results of impressive polls that we all know now what their credibility is. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2016, positive developments in the agricultural sector, mainly the rationalisation of payments, with the record of payments within a year of all subsidies and the payment of outstanding amounts of many years. With the start of the Agricultural Development Programme 2016-2020, which means about 7 billion investment, with the 4.7 billion Community participation, decisions on new organisation of conversions to producer organisations, new law on cooperatives, tax-free, reduction of taxable income, with the misappropriation of irregular land workers - of course, we have some problems with this, especially Albanian workers, but we will address them - the farmer's card at much lower interest rates, the EUR 384 pension for twenty years of insurance, which adds the reward for over 20 years. And here, of course, we need to get rid of the margin for tax relief and the calculation of the farmers' insurance contributions. The primary sector, if we deal with the issues of the essential and new organisation of farmers and farmers, with the quality production of food in quality and demanding markets and with the provision of added value to products - in other words, our products - can be the main lever for the development and exit of the crisis. There are, of course, many issues to be resolved, but I firmly believe that we can be optimistic and look forward to good results. Furthermore, in the energy sector, which can also be an essential development lever for exiting the crisis, the great effort made to safeguard the public character of key tools and infrastructure, has been found, in the conditions which have been achieved, successfully. The good course of the target ‘20-20-20’, the incorporation of the Energy Efficiency Directive, the adoption of a new renewable energy support scheme, and the incorporation of the Hydrocarbon Research Directive into 2016 creates the conditions for the energy sector to become a major development tool for the years to come. With the construction of the TAP, which will employ thousands of workers in northern Greece, the ripening of the IGB, the promotion of the electricity interconnection of the islands with the mainland, the LNG stations in Revithousa and Alexandroupolis, the plans for the underwater gas pipeline from the Southeast Mediterranean and the research on hydrocarbons in the Ionian Sea, Greece becomes an important regional energy hub, strategically important. The major changes planned in relation to the management and development of the networks will form the basis of energy development. The decisive strengthening of renewable energy sources, combined with the gradual decommissioning of coal and research activity, in terms of energy storage and production of alternative fuels, demonstrate the future, which, under certain conditions, can prove to be particularly positive, not only for the security of energy supply, but also for the contribution of the energy sector to fair development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u498	Thank you for keeping time. Mrs. Thleritis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u499	Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech and refer specifically to the budget, I would like to make an introduction to the general economic and political situation in Greece and Europe, to bring back to the forefront flaming issues that seem to be at the forefront, and also to be deliberately ignored on the part of the colleagues and colleagues of the Greater and Eleonian Repression. And I bring them to today's debate, because these issues put the framework within which we are moving, planning, discussing and calling on us to decide, since we are, as parliamentarians and parliamentarians, subject to a historic political and economic context and cannot act in the vacant. So, under this landscape, we are talking about the budget today. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] But let us see what the situation is today. First of all, we have Brexit and the rise of the nationalist extreme right in a number of European Union countries, which led to the disastrous policies of authoritarian neoliberalism which has restored the welfare state, the labour market, undermining the social consensus of the last decades, the 20th century and, of course, the social cohesion of these European societies. Secondly, in the case of Trump, there is a clear contrast between the popular classes and the elite. Thirdly, the Italian people, who voted to a overwhelming 'NO' vote in the referendum, denying a constitutional reform and not just a constitutional reform. And, as several analysts point out, this 'NOI' was also a vote of mobilisation for democracy, but also a vote of reaction to the reforms of the memorandum they imposed and still enforced in Italy, Berlin and Brussels. At the same time in the United States and in the European Union, we can see that racism and sexism are being treated against refugees, migrants, immigrants and women, and that demagogy is growing at a worrying rate along with a sense of defeat on the part of the citizens who are calling for a commitment to equality and social justice. And the only exception so far in this whole European and global landscape is Greece, where the austerity, crisis and popular resistance have brought SYRIZA to the government, at an extremely difficult time - we would say - and a demanding juncture in which the ideological intervention of the Left cannot only be limited today to the exit from the memoranda, but also aims to create new social and political alliances. So the government's strategy for 2017 and 2018 is to complete the assessment, to open up the debt debate and to create growth, development, but that will be managed in a fair way and through serious institutional changes in the social state, which will contribute to its recovery and its establishment. In the context of the negotiation which continues to take place in strict terms and pressure from the most conservative circles in the European Union and financial capital, which continue to defend austerity hard, the government has not accepted the proposal for primary surpluses of 3.5% for ten years and the unreasonable demand of the IMF for additional measures after the end of the programme. Right in this landscape we are coming today to see the budget for 2017. And here I would really like to refer to the great publicity that has been given in the report on the preliminary draft state budget of 2016, submitted by the Parliamentary Budget Office, which refers to the subordinate nature of the budget, which is characterised by tax austerity to achieve the objective of a primary surplus of 1.75% of GDP. At the same time, they are being substantially ignored, I would say, and the government's key economic policy dimensions, which, in spite of all the unfavourable circumstances in this present suffocating process, we see that it is making a shift towards the social sector. Here, I am referring precisely to what the report says, that, due to the continuation of the financial adjustment and the general narrow financial framework established by the third programme of Greece, budget expenditure cannot be increased in order to provide substantial support for the weakest social groups. Therefore - it says in the report - the only possibility of the government at this stage, which would not disturb the budgetary balance, is the redistribution of expenditure. It is precisely at this point that we are saying that the government is focusing precisely on it and attempts to direct a significant sum of 871 million only for 2017 in the category of social benefits. Of these, 571 million relate to the newly created income of social solidarity. The remaining 300 million concern health, social protection and education. At this point, it should be noted that support for vulnerable groups and in general the justice of the programme is an essential condition for us. The government also plans to allocate 100 million in 2017 to the protection of the principal residence of overdue households. I shall then refer to the resources relating to local government. The resources of the municipalities from the 2017 regular budget amount to EUR 2,347,000 compared with EUR 2,586,000 in 2016. As the figures show, therefore, and as has really been mentioned in the CEDEFOP conference, there is a reduction of around 10%. Is that a reduction and a real one? Oh, no. If we read the table better, we will find that this reduction appears, because in the 2016 budget the amount of EUR 214,000 is included in the regulation of the remaining years, which was the last instalment of 2016 and is not available in 2017, because the agreement was for eight instalments, that is, the last instalment, payment of the public debt to the OTA. It also appears in the relevant table that the central resources of the municipalities show a marginal reduction of EUR 20 million over a total of 1.3 billion. However, this loss is almost offset by the increase in the EUR 15 million granted as a special grant for specific expenses, concerning the municipal police and cleanliness in school units. Finally, with regard to the central own resources of the regions, they appear to be relatively increased by 55% and we would say that the resources of the regions are also improved by 25 million in the ordinary budget. Ladies and gentlemen, no one is questioned that government over the past seven years has suffered a significant reduction in its revenues from the state budget. We do not doubt that the Memorandum policies have actually led to this reduction in resources in local government. In this context, however, we know that the CEDEFOP, in claiming the new generation of detainees, is discussing with the Ministry of the Interior where it expects a documented proposal from the institutions to see if it can really discuss this new generation of detainees. Finally, as far as the Public Investment Programme is concerned, there has been an effort for the first time for many years to strengthen this programme, which we all remember in previous years. The national part of the programme was depleted because the national part was clearly part of the co-financed programmes and did not have their own resources. Therefore, there is a significant 33% increase compared to 2016, in fact, amounting to EUR 1 billion for projects, which relate exclusively to projects coming from national resources. Finally, we should stress that especially through the new NRP, emphasis is placed on the areas of infrastructure, entrepreneurship, human resources and a large part goes towards the OTAs. I mention projects of EUR 432 million from the European Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund, involving small mountain areas and island municipalities.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u500	Mrs. Thelerite, please, finish up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u501	I shall conclude, Mr President. Finally, there are invitations to projects of a net social nature of EUR 714 million that support actions such as community centres, Roma branches, basic goods structures, i.e. grocery stores, food and pharmacy that the municipalities have. All of these direct beneficiaries are grades 1 and 2. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u502	Mr Athanasios Bouras has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u503	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am honestly surprised that for three days when we are discussing the 2017 budget, the great majority of the government's colleagues, namely SYRIZA - ANEL, have not been talking about the budget at all. He's more involved in opposition to the New Democracy. A little while ago, my fellow Member slammed a few things, and many colleagues three days now do not deal with the budget at all, which, you know, has figures, has specific tables. That's all there is to it. Turn through the engagement! Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, the 2017 budget that we are discussing confirms in an eloquent way that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has plunged the country into the tide over the two years it has been ruling. Consumption and exports declined, market padlocks increased dangerously, outstanding debts increased from EUR 75,2 billion in 2014 to EUR 91,5 billion in August 2016. The standard of living of our fellow citizens is shrinking every day. The budget is based on wishes with unfulfilled expectations and optimistic assumptions, which will not be implemented. The Committee on Budgets has made a report and it would be good if the report were here, because those who are not in the Committee on Economic Affairs do not know it, do not have it. That is why I would ask, Mr President, that the report be brought forward and that our colleagues should be able to take it. Indeed, over time, the Parliament's Budget Office is an objective, scientific body for monitoring the budget. It characterises the budget - it was not said by the colleague who came down before the Step - a tax-centered and intense materialistic one. Of course, people say it simpler: tax-payer. New taxes of EUR 2.6 billion and only EUR 153 million save costs. The proportion of the economic mixture is 94.1% of taxes and only 5.9% of expenditure reduction. We in the New Democracy are talking about the opposite, about another economic mix. The New Democracy believes in progressively less taxes and substantial cuts in unnecessary public spending, with a dynamic shift in growth that will give jobs, which is what it is called for, because, as the Court of Auditors points out, ‘increases in taxes discourage entrepreneurship and do not give jobs’. It also considers the target of 2.7% growth impracticable, while expressing doubts about the sustainability of the insurance system, as was recently passed by the now known Katorugalou law. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, today there is a dangerous increase in the poverty rate affecting the country, as well as my constituency, the Attica region, which is particularly suffering from the crisis and is being deindustrialised. I do not know where the honourable Member, who came from me, found these good things when the municipalities are squeezing and unable to pay basic obligations. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have another first record. Parttime work employs 60% in new jobs and the government declares that it reduces unemployment. At working hours it reduces and even dangerously. With data from EUROSTAT for 2015 around 40% of the population is depriving them of material deprivation, while the issue of child poverty is the most acute in all euro area countries. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, stop mocking Greek citizens more. They cannot stand any more mockery, other poverty, other contempt, and even that of its own logic. In fact, the increases in VAT by EUR 437 million, in energy products - heating oil, fuel - by EUR 422 million, in mobile and pay-TV by EUR 89 million - are the figures - in beer by EUR 62 million, in coffee by EUR 62 million, in cigarettes by EUR 142 million, in rich and industrialized countries, and we did not know it or the very people in despair? Are the indirect taxes now fair and they have previously been unfair? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Does the government really think that with so many taxes and cuts in wages and pensions there will be an increase of 2.7%, an increase in private consumption of 1.8% and investments of 9.1%? That's what I fell for. Are these in a tax-free society and with people's incomes shrinking even further than the new taxes of EUR 2.6 billion, directly and indirectly, provided for in the new budget? What may arise, therefore, may be a reduction in consumption rather than an increase. How will investment increase, when in the nine months of January - September 2016, the padlocks increased by 33.4%? How will this increase, when the investments you have found under way by our government - Hellenic Airport, 'COSCO', regional airports - are being mobilised or cancelled, as we have recently seen with the IPCC? What foreign or local investors will risk their money with the policies expressed by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government? As far as the so-called social person of the government of the first time left is concerned, it is sufficient to remind thousands of low pensioners of the abolition of the CSCE and the delay for two years in adopting the minimum guaranteed income set by our government. Unfortunately, the current government has shown that not only can it not lead the country forward, but is unable to create conditions for growth and exiting the crisis. He's celebrating for the taxes and crying about the reforms. Your ministers are crying. It is clear that the country needs another government, effective and reliable, New Democracy government, as all measurements show, with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and with an agreement of truth, which will implement structural changes and substantial reforms, will proceed with the change of a mixture of fiscal policy, with a gradual reduction in taxation and the abolition of unnecessary and useless public spending...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u504	Mr. Bourra, please finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u505	I shall conclude, Mr President. ...a balance of economic efficiency and social justice, with a change of policy, a change of model, a change of structures and established attitudes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u506	Thank you, Mr. Bourra. Mrs Karakosta has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u507	Where to start and how to end what we've heard these days? What did we try? Make a budget based on our ideology. And as much as they call it 'ideology', we insist that it is our ideology. Because you are constantly accusing us of lying to us, of course, to assimilate us to you, I intend to refer to some truths. What have we promised on the basis of this country's economic potential? To support, first of all, the low incomes of this country. And, of course, you are now blaming us for the ESS, for the benefits and for all of this. You know, it's a system that you've been building for too many years. And while you should actually have wages and raise the payroll, you would leave the wages low, so that pensions would stay low and you would add allowances. It is a system that we need to change as well. So there's gonna be an intermediate part. Today, the Prime Minister made an excellent announcement, which refers to the thirteenth pension, involving about one million six hundred thousand pensioners from the two million seven hundred thousands we have, plus the part of the VAT on the islands affected by the refugee problem. And, of course, here we are to move on. So in the direction of supporting low incomes, I will not go too far, because a lot of Members have been mentioned before me. It's about the CRL, the Social Income of Solidarity, and what we've done. Now let's go say what else we promised. So, a left what would he want to do? Mainly strengthen the part of health, namely care, people equal to their health. In fact, it gives a very large sum of money, that is to say it increases our budget, to a large extent, the area of health. To what end? In order to fill vacant posts, which exist, and to back up primary health, which is very important. You know, no matter how much you say, no matter how much you yell, the Greek people collect this. For example, in the Piraeus area, which joined a building which is a public building - it was the building of NAT - where we no longer pay rents, which have been saved on this point and have been consolidated by all the doctors and we are making use of all the machinery we have, this is what the Pirate people have received from tomorrow. Whatever you say, you're going to be lying. So we have to find a difference in how you and we think. So let us see what we call 'development'. What did you mean to date by the term 'development' and how did you have the funds, for example, for public works? We have typical examples that we have made, we will not. I am referring, for example, to public works, to the five motorways which were stopped for five years, with contracts that you had done and were over-accounted for. And it's a pretext that they'd be overcompensated. Do you know why? Because the businessman, whether he is a technical company or anything, when he does his budget, says, "And so much I will give him. " So if you cut off the misaware, the work automatically becomes cheaper. With such reasonableness, then, we move forward and work on the five motorways. What's our logic? Do you know how many years the commercial port has been connected to the railroad? Can there be a country that has the port of Piraeus and is not connected to the rail network? And with what rail network that has been deceived for so many years? We believe that by 2020 the power train will be finished and out of the country. These are very important parts in our design, which you sincerely did not even think about, because you have always been sloppy. Of course, other colleagues have referred to the projects that are being carried out, both with the railways and the Attica basin, tram and many projects at the ports of the smaller islands, in order to promote tourism and all kinds of tourist products. So let's see how you guys were working in public administration. What were you talking about? What were you doing? You were promoting the private sector, where you accuse us of having real anaphylaxis with him. Let's see what you've done. You were given to contractors, contractors, cleanliness, for example, of hospitals, cleanliness of ministries. We have other logic, good or bad. We hire cleaners and cleaners to public administration. In other words, we are moving forward with a completely different action in our budgetary systems. Unfortunately, my time is running out and there's too much to say. You know, development from 2000 onwards, we could not have, because we say that the balance of imports and exports should be in favour of exports. However, what exports we would have made over the years when we closed the Greek shoe, we closed the Greek clothing and formed - be careful - a culture in our dress, in our value, etc. with import products and did we only develop trade rather than production? Are we responsible for all this? Do we have to reverse all this? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be out in half a second. I sincerely would not want us to be accused as SYRIZA on the part of the Communist Party of Greece, where I heard Mr. Delis say that the research, innovation and money we have in it is to strengthen capitalism and businesses that support capitalism. Honestly, wouldn't you like medical research to be a Greek product? Research into education, wouldn't you like it to be a Greek product? Wouldn't you really want this whole system to allow public administration to become an electronic system? Who's gonna do it? What children will they do if we do not see to it that we strengthen research and technology? In the agricultural sector too, however, the young children must go and support them. Think of this fresh milk we find in our neighborhood with a bottle of who started it. Innovation and research is this. Such examples must be given, and so we must move forward. Don't be afraid of the new one. That's how our scientists won't leave Greece. That's how they stay here. We're making this budget. These ideas are moving forward. A lot in this area has been said by Mr Haritsis. I very much hope that you will see and vote on this budget. It is indeed a permanent inclination of what I was hearing today mainly from the New Democracy, that this budget cannot be implemented. I hope that wasn't a wish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u508	Mr Vlachos has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u509	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the refusal of the country's political forces to see and face up to the cruel reality brought about by the international crisis has led our lives to successive memos. The lenders have been assigned to decide how to live and how much to live. Because we today refuse to understand and admit the self-evident thing: that we will live with what the country permits, with what production of our country allows us. And that happens, not only because living with borrowers is a dead end and adding debt to our children, but why they simply don't have credit. No one's lending us any more to continue our careless life. The superstition, the bubble, we were talking about, broke the reality today, we all live it. Those who refused it sooner or later led the country to adventure. Thus, the refusal of the wage and pension freeze in 2009 brought the memorandum. The Memorandum created its own reality, its own logic. And the re-denomination and search for another road, exiting the crisis, brought the third memorial that we are living today. So, instead of increases and reintroducing the era of exaggeration promised by SYRIZA, today we are discussing a fourth memorandum and new measures. Where we thought we had reached the lowest point and the rise would begin, we now find that there is another margin for fall. We are living through this because much of our fellow citizens did not want and want to hear the voice of reason. He lives in his anger. It tackles the situation by leveling up everything and everything. He wants to punish. And finally, all he's punishing is himself and his family. In order for the budget figures to be worthwhile, ladies and gentlemen, we must want to see them, we must want to hear them. Here, of course, everyone assumes their responsibility. With this government, therefore, instead of another proposal to get out of the crisis, instead of the Thessaloniki programme, instead of "heavy duoulia", instead of threatening Europe, instead of finding other oranges that we were told, we have reached the point of having two years lost, two years of recession. In this period the market bunkers were multiplied, the standard of living shrunk, the late tax debts of private individuals to the State increased, the late debts of the State to private individuals were raised, the Greek State lost 25 billion since the previous recapitalisation of the banks. In addition, new measures amounting to 9 billion were imposed for the period 2015-2018, humiliating commitments were made with the known fund. Lost deposits are estimated at EUR 40 billion. In 2015, the country's total pensioners suffered a reduction in their pensions, cut the EASA, increased employers' contributions. However, the new budget is difficult to implement. The expectations of increasing growth by 2.7%, private consumption by 1.8% and investments by 9.1% are particularly optimistic. This is because an already taxed society is impossible to significantly increase private consumption. And those who say that, rather, live another reality, a virtual reality, because the available income of citizens is constantly shrinking and will shrink even further than the imposition of new direct and indirect taxes, from pension cuts and social protection of EUR 2.6 billion, which is the amount of the new measures. Because there is a large increase in investment, when the padlocks increased in 2016. Because the tax capacity of households and businesses has long been exhausted. Because the strong trend towards declining unemployment that has begun in the new Republic is dramatically slowing down, with serious consequences for the insurance funds. Unfortunately, all these elements are a very bad picture primarily of society and hence of the economy, which make it impossible to implement the budget correctly. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the time that each one of us must show himself the best. Who's our best self? He who says and admits the truth, because the truth is the most revolutionary our time can show. When you know the truth, then understanding comes on its own and brings action and solidarity. The problem of our country was and remains political. Politics, we need to talk. The government does not speak politically when it looks good. She simply temporarily protects herself and her position, resorting to communal tricks and propaganda. We're just choosing to put our country above all, above all. We are telling the truth simply on the basis of the interests of our country and our people. We must not let our country collapse politically, economically and nationally. It needs a change of attitude and a change of policy needs to be made so that the country and the economy can reboot, come out of the material spiral and come back to development. The recovery recipe is one, a development shock that will include a stable tax system with fair rates, tax incentives, simplification of licensing procedures, drastically reducing bureaucracy, combating corruption, converting the state into a functional mechanism for serving our citizens and entrepreneurship, a recipe without critical cuts, without redundancies, but an finally smart management of public administration with multiple benefits for our society. Only in this way will funds be invested first of all by Greeks and then by foreigners. It is only in this way that small and medium-sized enterprises, the productive fabric of our country, will be kept alive. We must respond with our own national plan to restore normality and strengthen the production process. We put the man ahead, not the numbers. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing and call on to vote on an anti-development budget for 2017, when the sad effects of the so-called debt relief are still fresh, and this is because the propaganda's idealism outweighs the country's interests. The prerequisite primary surpluses will not allow the country to reach 2060, perhaps much earlier. You who really agree with these surpluses must explain to the world where they come from. Are you so optimistic that these surpluses will result from a productive process or will you once again resort to the logic of a new burden of taxation? So you drive the country to a dead end. In order to avoid this deadlock, another policy needs to be changed. But you don't want to hear. You insist on the mistake. So you take full responsibility for the deadlock that leads us, the world and the country as a whole. It is clear that we will not be cooperative, so we are voting against the anti-developmental, deadlock, inefficient budget of your government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u510	Thank you, Mr. Vlavo. Ladies and gentlemen, we must consult the speakers who will follow until the end of the sitting which, as you know, will end around 12 o'clock at midnight. We therefore propose to conclude the twelfth cycle of the speakers we are now dealing with, with the last speaker, Mrs Vaki. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u511	The House has therefore agreed. Mr. Constantine Spartinus has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u512	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the second budget proposed by this government first proves on the political level that the left-hand parentheses are hopelessly overflowing. It was only as a sad remnant of this short-sighted policy that the treacherous demand "elections here and now" was left to provoke the ironic flaws of even fans of the New Democracy. The 2017 budget targets have a double target, within the framework of achieving the surplus of 1.75%. On the one hand, continuing and stepping up efforts for fair burden-sharing and, on the other, supporting health, education and social solidarity services, and on the other, maximising the results of the country's development and investment effort, which is visible, realistic and successful, according to assessments not only of the government but also of the institutions and international economic analysts. With regard to this second objective, the budget is the first, after many years of recession, which can have a real development dimension. And that is of course irrelevant to the fact that, for the first time since the start of the crisis, it has succeeded and even exceeded all the critical objectives of the previous budget. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: But it is right at the moment to remember that in the context of the 2014 Social Story, the government was committed to surpluses of 1.5% with a real result of 0.3 and a cash deficit of EUR 550 million. You were left then, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and of PASOK, with the bitter wonder on your lips, because your likelihoods in Estonia had not made the wrong eyes to the lack of your credibility. A similar bitter question also arises now in the ratio of officials in particular from the New Democracy, following the positive conclusion of the Eurogroup, on short-term debt measures. Why are the institutions still negotiating with some who are not like us - you - owners and successfuls of the building of austerity and recession, but occasional tenants of it? Indeed, we have not come here to stay and we do not want to reconstruct it. It's just that we're going to do it to the minimum while we're obligated to stay there. Much more so, that earthquakes across the European continent can also demolish it. Ladies and gentlemen, the opposition is questioning the country's development prospects and the possibility of investing in a sense of appreciation from too many aspects, mainly based on one argument: the current tax regime. It cannot be denied, of course, that the tax relief for small and medium-sized enterprises must be a constant pursuit of the government, of course, following the support of the lower economic sections, which the previous policies have led to extinction. This support will be continuous. We have heard it shortly before the Prime Minister's dilemma and there will be other initiatives of this kind, which will result from the surpluses and from the non-aeronautical revenues that the state will have. It is regrettable that, in hearing these commitments and the Prime Minister's announcements, we have to find out from someone a little while ago, which was obvious and petty and miserable. But the rhetoric of the New Democracy in terms of growth begins and ends in the promise of tax relief, and it is well known that low taxation is not always a prerequisite for investment, much more for the creation of fair and sustainable growth, as is the dissolution of labour relations, the status of employment immunity, yet another front of the Government in the field of the second assessment, in which the New Democracy refuses to be placed, even now. Fair and sustainable development requires precisely the opposite policies from those implemented by the previous governments, namely the diffusion of resources to as much of society as possible, respect and control in their management with a focus on jobs based on a specific development plan, with a peak of the country's comparative advantages, with no 100% advances for fast-tracked and overcompensation of only 6.5 billion for developmental law, weight for the next development. It is this logic that governs our own development law, the rural development programme, the ESRB, the 2017 budget, with the central role of participating in these programmes of the small and medium-sized enterprises, the individual enterprise, the social enterprise, the cooperative. The new "Security" also provides funds of 250 million, while the new Participation Fund and the Microcredit Fund is directly active. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall be very brief, Mr President. In addition, additional funding has already been launched through the European Investment Bank for the Hellenic Institute for Research and Innovation. At the same time, the new Entrepreneurship Fund, TPIX II, with about 400 million from the NSRP, comes to complete the open trusted account through the Deposit and Loan Fund, with the aim of directly and easily financing small and medium-sized enterprises in particular. Finally, the Juncker project has already been activated. EUR 900 million has been signed, leveraging EUR 236 billion in private resources. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been here with the people's mandate to design and implement a fair, clean and responsible course for the next day. This is reflected in this budget as well. Obviously, this displeased those who ruled until 2015 the place. Nowadays, the predominance and possession of wealth, and through tax exemptions, constituted the sole prerogative of a few occupants. Our duty, the task of the Left, is to cut down bridges with those times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u513	Mr Consolas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u514	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, while the ratification of the State Budget is under way in 2017, the Prime Minister, along with the plenary session, chose to make a proclamation to the Greek people to do the white one: to say that there will be no pension cuts, but on the contrary there will be generous aid to the Greek people, because because of his own policy, he removed incomes from the previous period with the hard tax measures that he imposed on this Chamber. The despair of the Members of the government majority has forced the Prime Minister to take up positions that should have been adopted very early, as was, for example, the continued imposition of reduced rates of VAT on the islands since last July - we all remember it. And today, with generosity, this is a precondition for survival for islanders, namely the continuation of the consolidation of reduced rates of VAT on the islands. There are, of course, limited measures which exist at this time, and thus he admits that there is a problem in island policy, in tourism, in the islands, in this survival of islands, which are now giving a separate race. You know, that's not just the denial of reality by the Prime Minister and the government, but it's a direct attack on citizens' intelligence. And that's not all. It is also surprising that the government's attempt to distort the truth about the Eurogroup's agreement, which is the solution to the country's problems and the definitive resolution of the debt problem. Ladies and gentlemen, what the government has taken for the debt is very little of this negotiation. At the level of nominal value, there is neither a reduction nor a comparison with GDP. The actual debt relief shall be switched from time to time after 2040. I would remind you that there was the Eurogroup agreement in 2012 on debt relief on the part of our partners, since we managed to have primary surpluses. Nowhere did I see the government negotiating, claiming to respect this commitment on the basis of the 2012 Eurogroup decision. On the contrary, it is the government itself who has dismantled this opportunity and accepted a framework that does not help our economy decisively. At the same time, accepting the targets for primary surpluses of 3.5% after 2018, as well as the measures that will be called upon to take by you of the government majority, ladies and gentlemen, and voting in 2018, undermine the prospect of recovery in the Greek economy. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget will not be implemented. And it won't be executed after the Prime Minister's announcement from Maximos a few minutes ago. It will probably be voted on, but you will be the same ones to review it within record time, possibly within a few days. When you bring in the medium term, we'll all be here. We'll be witnessing what's going to happen. And then we will see who will be justified if what many colleagues say is true and by the majority. We have heard our rapporteurs. Your budget reflects your logic, i.e. taxes without end. It contains new charges totalling EUR 2,5 billion, in an economy that has proved to be unreserved of other taxes, rather than moving towards the targeted cost reduction. Do not tell me, Mr President, that there is no room to cut costs and not to impose taxes, because there are sources from which costs can be cut. For example, I could mention the merger and exploitation of public infrastructure, while the services and structures of the public are paying rents and rents throughout the territory, the abolition of the structures and structures that you have recently created for two years to put party friends and executives, as well as the reduction in public consumption expenditure. With your new tax burdens, for the first time, they will pay a pensioner tax of EUR 800 and employees with a monthly income of EUR 700. Free professionals with an annual income of EUR 10,000 and EUR 12 000, should pay 60% of their income for income tax and insurance, and with the remaining 40% to pay all other obligations and with this small amount to be able to survive at this difficult juncture. I would remind you of the increase in VAT on basic products and services which recently affect every Greek family. Mr Vésyropoulos, our rapporteur, referred to this. Ladies and gentlemen, tourism is the only area for which the economy can hope and tourism is the only area on which the economy is based, which is why the SYRIZA - ANEL Government seems to have targeted it. You know, the tourism of the islands suffered a great deal of suffering and heavy damage from the government's policy on immigration, as the Prime Minister himself admitted, and even the Aegean islands, especially those where there are hot spots, which the government loaded with immigrants and turned them into enclaves and warehouses for people, entangled by illegal immigrants who cannot move from there. Is the government aware of the percentages of visitors' reductions in tourist revenues in Lesvos, Kos, Chios, Samos, Lero? Why is there no integrated programme of promotion and advertising, support for local communities in advertising for tourism? The suspension of the reduced VAT rates on the islands announced by the Prime Minister is not enough. And you know, it is not enough because it is worth seeing the documents submitted by both the Municipality of Kos and Kos, who are struggling for the development of things in the coming years. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You know, if we want and believe in the development of the tourist product, this idea is not consistent with maintaining hot spots on the islands. I referred to tourism a little while ago. It is worth mentioning the costs of the state budget for the Ministry of Tourism. Just 80,000,000 euros, which accounts for 0.6% of the direct contributions to tourism in the national economy, are the costs for the operation of the Ministry of Tourism. This also reflects the importance, but also the emphasis of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government on tourism. The government's tourism policy is also expressed in full indifference to the phenomenon of the reduction of revenues from tourism by 7.1% in the first eight months of 2016 compared to the same period last year. The above figures are from Bank of Greece. It's not our evidence. It is self-proof that overtaxing and reducing the competitiveness of our tourism product results in a reduction in tourism revenues. This government, along with the imposition of extremist taxes and charges on businesses active in the tourism sector, is absolutely identical to that of extermination taxes and charges. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen - and I shall end in a minute, Mr President, if you will allow me - that it is the government that has imposed VAT increases on accommodation. It is the government that imposed the additional tax on small tourist enterprises. It is the Government that imposed the abolition of reduced rates of VAT on the Aegean islands. It is the government that has tried and fought the regional tourism, which has yet to talk about. At the same time, it is the government that invokes the increase in visitors as a major achievement, but we still have to stress that this figure is small in relation to what is happening in the geopolitical environment around us, Turkey and Egypt. The Government can therefore understand that the nights and per capita expenditure determine the value of tourist revenues rather than the number of visitors. The increase in the number of visitors was not so great compared with the figures we have said. We have also heard the governmental factors for the upgrading of tourism education. I conclude with this, because it is the government that made tourist education worse in the country when it unlocked the right to establish sections of tourism EEI and in the Aegean and Crete, and that is not how Greece, as well as the Aegean, became the main point of tourism development and education in the wider region. On the contrary, we gave our neighbor and Cyprus the doughnut. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy is voting against this budget tabled by the government because it does not believe in the policy of imposing new taxes on a society that has exhausted its tolerance and in an economy seeking oxygen. The deceivers were tested in practice and crushed by reality itself. It's time for the liberal ideas. It is time to move forward with bold changes, with the modernisation of public administration without taxes and support for entrepreneurship. It's time for New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis on the road they show, on the road ahead of the country. Good power to all of you, and at this very moment I wish the government to show the sensitivity it needs in the budget, to correct the distortions that have been shown by the rapporteurs, but also by all the Parliament's wings. In the next few years, the rulers must correct not only their mistakes, but also correct the wrong policy which, for two and a half years, deprives Greek society of hope.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u515	Mrs Christophilopoulou has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u516	Ladies and gentlemen, in the last two years citizens have paid an additional EUR 7.2 billion in additional measures of all kinds: cutbacks, taxes, particularly indirect taxes. It's a 7.2 billion-dollar bill so far. These 7.2 billion measures have been imposed on everyone, low-retired, high-retirement workers, workers, unemployed, everyone. Today we heard the Prime Minister announcing about six hundred pensioners a single offer to see a third pensioner or something like that, as he has told us. This is an allowance from the social dividend, from the surplus, of about EUR 380, for once. Look, ladies and gentlemen, we as a Democratic Alliance are not going to laugh and smuggle as Mr Tsipras was saying when in 2014 there were some pennies from the then surplus they shared. SYRIZA then cried, scoring his caravan to power. We're not gonna fight. We'll just say one thing: Burn you, Yannis, lumber you oil! And I would like to explain, ladies and gentlemen, that we have the EUR 2.4 billion extra taxes that everyone will pay, and in particular the indirect taxes that you have increased. They are growing, while, from 2010 to 2014, they are falling, because they are socially unfair taxes. And today we heard the Prime Minister say that he is socially just. Indirect taxes, therefore, are growing. So these taxes will be paid by the citizens, which are EUR 2.4 billion, are also taxes of your own budget. Do you want to go to the pensioners' 'family' to document this burning you, Giannis? The budget that we are debating takes EUR 1.6 billion away from pensioners, of which EUR 586.3 million is only abrogated by the abolition of the low-pension pensioners' CSR. Of the dividends of the Equity Fund are 204 million, of the additional 350 million euros, and it goes on to say the bill of 1.6 billion. charges. Of course, the Prime Minister has come and says "I get EUR 1.6 billion and I give you a single EUR 617". Let's remember one more thing: The retired person's engravement imposed on them by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government for health contributions costs EUR 717 million a year. Did the low-retireees or all pensioners and all the citizens through this health raffle? No, of course, because even sheets are missing from hospitals. That's where you got it! And Mr. Paulakis came out - listen! - Yesterday he criticised us and above, ladies and gentlemen. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Listen a little. You'll talk too. And we heard the Prime Minister today, and is it really anyone here saying 'Does anyone stop lying'? He said "five thousand intakes will be..."! And I'm asking, what recruitments was Mr. Tsipras referring to? The ones he had announced in 2015 and never did? To those who had announced the five thousand in April 2016? Look at the announcement. Did the Prime Minister's announcements at the ICU, where the Prime Minister spoke of ten thousand recruitments of nurses and doctors? Look at them! Or is it Mr. Polakis who dared from this Step to say that we have three and a half thousand intakes in health? Lies, ladies and gentlemen! Bring me one! And I'm not talking about subsidiary doctors, am I? To understand. There is not one doctor or nurse who has been hired to health this year or last year. Nine hundred and eighty-five recruits ready, by act of the General Accounting Office of the State and Act of Ministerial Council, you received in December 2014 ready. Mr. Kourublis had other priorities. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Obviously there are disagreements, colleagues, but what to do, the truth is the truth. Mr. Blonde in September 2015, who took over, said that he would "take up". Today, the Prime Minister, from the social dividend, says five thousand doctors and nurses and ten thousand of the canalarchs' dividends, make us fifteen thousand. Let's have a word. Speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u517	You had them and you didn't pay twenty-seven years...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u518	Oh, Mrs. Vaki, let us talk. I know, the truth is really bothering you. The truth hurts. It hurts too much the truth!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u519	Lies hurts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u520	Let Mrs. Christophilopoulou speak. Please continue, Mrs. Christophilopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u521	Whatever they don't like, it bothers them. I say, Mr President, that this carnival with health at some point has to end. And let me tell you something else, since you're causing. Last year at this time, doctors and nurses were not recruited at the Intensive Treatment Units. He was dying a lot of people, you know. This year, the flu deaths already started. Has there been any preparation by the Ministry of Health to hire in the Intensive Treatment Units a hundred doctors and a hundred nurses? Oh, no. When did this happen before? Which governments? Never! Never, ladies and gentlemen. Month of December and month of January the recruitments were ready. I am heard by colleagues of all the wings and they know what I'm talking about. That's the fracture.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u522	Recruitment...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u523	Please don't interrupt. Mrs. Christophilopoulou, please continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u524	They can't accept the opponent. So long as you said your poem, so long as Mr. Tsipras came out and didn't come here to tell us, why didn't we talk and listen to you? You can't bear to listen to the opponent. You're so democrats! Let me say a word about the work, ladies and gentlemen. Although they are not, you know, figures in the budget, but they are about development, with the possibility of social peace at the place, with the possibility of consulting the social partners. And because I hear the government defend - it says - only the collective bargaining, I ask: What are you going to do with recompense? Will you take us back to 1959 and the Ice Arena decision then or 1976? Will we allow retreat? Will you defend its ban, which we defended to the end? Are you going to defend the team redundancies? Today there was a general strike. We expect to hear from official lips what the commitments and what the government's negotiating lines are on these issues that have so far not been touched. And I don't hear the Minister of Labour speak and raise flags for the lockout, I don't hear her lifting flags for the trade union law. Why? Why aren't the trade unions editors? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Ladies and gentlemen, I understand very well that everything I say is annoying. I say, however, clearly: the world is aware that no matter what Mr Tsipras shares, either in false promises and words or in some minor allowances from here and there, it is not rescued. Because lies, propaganda, and especially delusional ones have very short feet! We are obviously voting against this budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u525	Mr. Morfidis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u526	Thank you, Mr President. I agree with Mrs Christophilopoulou that lying has short feet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u527	You're lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u528	We agree with you. Why are you protesting? I agree with you. I will only disagree on one point that you have not obviously heard Mr Polakis' speech to which you have referred. A few hours ago in this Chamber Mr. Paulakis referred to the recruitments made in the Intensive Treatment Units and in all areas of health.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u529	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u530	Please be quiet, Mrs. Christophilopoulou!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u531	You insist on saying words and accusing the minister of lying. It would be better if you would go and get informed by the Minister, see the people who work, as we see them and as all Greece and the Greek people see them, in a system that was under collapse and now slowly standing on their feet. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2017 budget that we are debating today has a key feature. It is for the benefit of society's humanitarian needs, with costs aimed at education, culture, health, the social state and the development of the economy, unlike previous years' budgets, which even in times of fat cows, the real vital sectors of society have received little appreciation from governments and of course funding. At the beginning of the committee, the governments which drafted, after command, budgets tried to satisfy exclusively the blackmail agreements, without even realising the direct and indirect disastrous consequences for society. Today the New Democracy and the PASOK are still insisting on the same wrong recipe. What if they were found in the counterpopulation benches? They insist that they have neoliberal krone on their heads. What if everyone then admitted that the recipe in our country was wrong? What if the IMF itself admitted that the evidence on which the programmes were based was wrong? New Democracy and PASOK, responsible for implementing this policy, tell us that the country was a paradise in December 2014 and that SYRIZA threw it on the rocks. No self-criticism about their own mistakes that led us here, no explanation of how a blossom economy in December 2014 became weak immediately after January 2015, i.e. in one month. Reactions and scepticism by the Opposition on the results of the Eurogroup are expressed. It seems that there is a failure to understand the positive results. You were perhaps waiting to delete the debt - which your own policies have created and maintained - completely overnight. Most of all, however, you were expecting a defeat of the government, and you had said so very much. There has not been much time since the 'Wast IMF' that the co-operating media were speaking. You don't care about getting out of the recession, the vicious cycle of the crisis. Only left parentheses is what you're interested in. We must, however, welcome the New Democracy in particular to the group of the parties in Parliament that recognise that the Greek people have problems. In listening to the speakers' positions these days we have seen an agonizing and provocative mood for social rights, for labour rights and for rights for vulnerable groups. There have also been claims for tax reductions, but of course also predictions of redundancies, obviously for few and excellent people to work, always according to neoliberal standards and their favorite recipes of punishing austerity. There have also been criticisms of the budget and of the programme that does not come out, of populist practices and of government lies. You are forgetting, ladies and gentlemen, that you refer to your responsibilities, your responsibilities for the way we have arrived here. You forget who depleted social rights, who disappeared labour rights. Asking today for collective contracts is hypocritical when you are the ones who have abolished them. Of course this on its own is the confession of defeat of your own policy. As for us, we continue with steady, maybe slow steps, but always forward. This budget is another step within the narrow, suffocating limits and the possibilities that our country has. We take courage from the positive elements presented by the economy, perhaps not as much as we would like, but the positive start has already been made. We take courage from the Greek people who recognise the effort and realize that the catastrophe is stopping, which recognises that in these difficult conditions social costs are social costs and that they are the ones that bear weight and direct whatever money they can, through a budget such as the one that is submitted and discussed these days. This is confirmed by the Prime Minister's message tonight with the support of the low pensioners from the 2016 events and, of course, by the non-increase in VAT on the islands. This year's budget, ladies and gentlemen, is realistic and surplus, as was the previous one. We will once again go beyond the objective, as will the year that closes prosperously. This year's budget is a budget that maintains budgetary equilibrium and at the same time is a fair social one. The social income of solidarity extends, furthermore, the areas of health, education and social welfare. The Public Investment Programme, aimed at development actions along with the instruments of the NSRP, the Rural Development Programme and the benefits of the development law, also appears. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. We also started planning the future of our own region, the region of Eastern Macedonia - Thrace, so that within the next year we presented a comprehensive plan for the development and organisation of the production of all sectors of the economy. Colleagues and colleagues, the government is against the austerity policies, as are other countries in Europe affected by hegemony neoliberal obsessions, those that circumvent the European Union's acquired and fundamental terms. We're clear. We are in favour of productive reconstruction, social equitable development and the social state, and we are trying to reconstruct the naughty bruises, to make the avenue. We continue with steady steps and insistence, until the country leaves the monuments, committees and colonial policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u532	Mr Gülekas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u533	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the most important bill that every year comes to plenary, the 2017 budget. But what are we talking about? What are you defending? Majority colleagues, apologies, but an hour ago, your Chief, Prime Minister Tsipras, overturned the budget. And here, in the government headquarters, we have some finance ministers. Will you finally bring us the changes? Instead of honouring us by the Prime Minister and coming here to announce that 'you know, you know, the budget is overthrown and we will have other sizes', he's on television, he's delivering proclamations - and, of course, it's obvious, clearly, why he does - and we don't know anything. And we come here and discuss the budget and the figures that have been submitted by your Government and do not even bother to inform the National Representation of whatever change these announcements bring about, the Prime Minister's impulse. And because I have heard the previous colleague say here: 'You know, the right-wing people, the New Democracy, the neoliberals...'', let me tell you that social sensitivity is not one-off from anyone. If you are in the end the defenders of the people's interests and the weak, I would like to tell you that two hundred and fifty thousand pensioners out there are asking about the CSCE, you defenders! I would like to tell you that employees are waiting for their wages to go to 751 euros from you, from their defenders. I would like to tell you that all pensioners are waiting for the thirteenth pension. But that's how you came to power. I would like to tell you that all the Greeks expect you to abolish HISPIA. This is what Alexis Tsipras said and he took - he bare - the vote of the Greek people. Of course, I did not expect you to celebrate the Eurogroup, because you once said that by burdening the bullies the markets will dance at your own pace and that by a law you will also delete debt and debt and HISPIA and everything. Where did all this go, ladies and gentlemen? And what are we talking about? And because we are talking about the budget, let me tell you that contrary to your own practice, which is above all your party interest, we in the New Democracy have also proved with Mr Mitsotakis and with the previous leaderships that we are putting the national interest above all. Why? Because if the country is in Europe today, after your recurring, after your own stupidity, it is because the New Democracy supported this stay. The New Democracy was, of course, and the party that put the country in the United Europe, whose money you get on the one side, but on the other hand, you put the world in dilemmas. What are we talking about today? The new budget. There are two ways. The country is currently passing through the most difficult struggling, a protracted economic crisis, an economic war that after World War II has created huge tragic conditions and has plunged the lives of all Greeks. There are two ways, therefore, in a country that is forced to borrow, to find money. One way is to impose taxes, and he's the one you're following. The other way is to create the environment so that investment can come to the country. This means, of course, a reduction in taxation - it is what Mr Mitsotakis has announced - that means stabilising the tax regime, which means an attractive environment, so that one can come to invest. Who will come to invest in Greece in SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen? What crazy person is going to come to invest a single euro when Mr Spirtz comes out and apologizes to shed crocodile tears, because, he says, we moved on to the privatization of the fourteen regional airports? Of course, the state budget benefited by 1.4 billion, but Mr Spirtz apologized for doing so. It's tragic, that is! How are we going to proceed, when a week before the Prime Minister of the country, Alexis Tsipras, had broadly signed the agreement with 'COSCO' for the port of Piraeus and the relevant Minister of Shipping, Dricas, was out and broke his clothes at your party gatherings, saying 'we are not selling the port to the Chinese'? One week later, of course, your Prime Minister sold it out, in your view. And you're talking about investments? You're saying that's where you're waiting for this year's budget to be implemented? Because we're talking about the budget, I think this is all funny. But today, your Minister for Economy and Development, Mr Papadimitriou, cynically confessed to increasing taxation on your governments and even said this unimportant - this must be taught to first-year students in the national economy - that the increase in taxes, he says, does not affect competitiveness. That's awesome! That's all you can say. Because I come from Northern Greece, ladies and gentlemen, without doubt questioning the good knowledge of many of your colleagues about the real conditions that exist throughout Greece, regardless of where they come from, I have to tell you that we in Northern Greece, Thessaloniki, Macedonia, Thrace, experience the crisis long before it hit the door of the rest of Greece. Why? Because because of the proximity with the other countries and because of the tax incentives given to neighbouring countries, many companies have shifted and continue to move to the other side of the border. And what do you do to keep that current on hold? You're increasing taxation. You're doing great! You show, in other words, the door and those left here, to those who are courageous in Greece, telling them, "Please, please, from there you can go, we are a country that we do not accept investment". Because we are talking about the budget and the budget is figures, we need nothing but to tell you some information very quickly, about what you have done in the country and why we are saying that, despite the fact that we wished that all this would go well, with your own incompetent government, it is impossible to go well. For in these two years you have simply charged the country with 86 billion, according to the Governor of the Bank of Greece, Mr Stournara and Mr Regling, by 100 billion, with the Odyssey baroque, that terrible negotiation you have made and today you celebrate, because he says that the debt will be reduced by half a century later, in 2060, by 45 million. You have called for the country, at the softest estimate, by 86 billion and you are glad, because, in fifty years from now - in forty-five years, in fact, in order not to blame you - you will reduce the debt by 45 billion. In other words, the next two generations will be happy to see the achievements of your proud policy. What has happened these two years? A wealth of EUR 26 billion has been lost, about 6,000 euros for each household. Who says that? The European Commission. In the autumn forecast, in November 2014, it estimated that the nominal GDP of 2016 would be 196 billion. In November 2016 - this year, a month ago - the European Commission know how much it appreciates nominal GDP? He landed it at 174 billion, 21 billion less. What does that mean for every household? I told you before. Can I talk about the field of work? Because you are glad, he says, that there is a fall in unemployment rates. With what? With part-time work, you left-wingers are being cut off for your social sensitivity. Why? Why did you bring the part-time job, why did you bring the rotating job? Why suddenly 60% of contracts in Greece are part-time and you're happy about that? And October was the worst October of the last fifteen years. Eighty-two thousand jobs have been lost. These are numbers, ladies and gentlemen. Indeed, because we are talking only about numbers and the Greek people are listening to us and aren't they all familiar with numbers, can I also tell you the results of your proud policy?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u534	Mr. Giuleka, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u535	Just a minute, Mr President, and I shall conclude. The University Hospital of Larissa, one of the largest hospitals in the country, postponed all scheduled surgery, because the budget of the blood supply department was transferred to other codes and there are no reagents and materials. A few days ago, the Director of Lamia General Hospital informed the citizens that it was impossible to operate the surgery and said to them: "If you have a problem, you go to other hospitals, Lamia has now been closed. Surgeries have downloaded the shades.’ Is that your policy? Is that what you're proud of? For this social sensitivity you're tired of? We are not going to take any, ladies and gentlemen! Two years on the Left - your Left - we saw it and saw it in action and it's tragic. On the other hand, I am very sorry, but because we want to talk about data, red loans, bank balances and Bank of Greece - I will submit the table in the Minutes - in 2015-2016 they have increased. The deposits were reduced by 40 billion. From the Bank of Greece is the data. The enclosures in the market were multiplied. January to September 2016 - the nine months - twenty-four thousand businesses closed and twenty-one thousand opened. Change the balance. From GEMI is the evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u536	Mr. Güleka, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u537	I'll be right back, Mr. President. These are the elements of your proud policy. But again, I say, ladies and gentlemen, that in the end, instead of getting out of the crisis, you are looking for a way out of the deadlocks you have created. Listening today to Alexis Tsipras, the Prime Minister of the country, what we appreciated has finally become, in my humble belief, that Alexis Tsipras will very soon, with today's proclamation and compulsion, a heroic fleeing forward. And I think you will do well instead of defending a budget that is failed and the numbers have been blown up in the air, because your Prime Minister himself overthrows what your government has submitted, you better look for how you will apologize to the Greek people in a little while you will ask for his vote. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u538	Mrs. Stamaki from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u539	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years we have been having a difficult time. The country's ill-considered economic position, as well as its close committee, leave us little room for moves. We cannot admit that. Nevertheless, we have the possibility of not putting the burden on vulnerable groups, but of disseminating it in medium and upper layers, of paying those who have to pay, not falling the burden of the crisis to the weakest. Already, since 2015, the law to deal with the humanitarian crisis has been in place. Expenditure on social solidarity actions for 2016, until October, exceeded the 2015 budget, drawn up by the Samara government. Today, social income of solidarity demanded the tripleness of almost three times the costs, which we had spent the two years 2015-2016 for our fellow citizens, who had been hit by the crisis. We have negotiated and finally managed to enter into the budget at the present time 760 million for benefits for prostitution, without prejudice to basic allowances such as family and disability benefits. But we are not staying in numbers, ladies and gentlemen. We are moving on to institutional areas. According to the World Bank report, Greece spends 2.1% of GDP on welfare benefits, while the average in the European Union is 4.2%. Despite the low level of expenditure, the system of social protection services from the post-war period to now has been characterised by complexity, lack of uniform design, misguided targeting, division and multiplicity, inequality of resources and benefits, opacity. All this has led to the acute administrative problems of insurers and welfare services, but often to the exclusion of our fellow citizens from the benefits they were entitled to, due to lack of access to incomplete information and information. Field bright for clientele, rosphetological practices. These practices we broke. We've ruined your street. We've ruined the foundations of this rotten system you've created. And that's it, ladies and gentlemen of counterpopulation, that you don't like at all. That is why we have not heard from you a positive proposal for the budget these two days. No self-criticism. Instead, a verbal attack without a glimpse. We lived in a country where everything was going very well. It was very nice and SYRIZA came and made it all a ruddy. But thankfully the people have a memory and they know very well which policies and policies led the people to impoverishment and the country on the brink of collapse. Ladies and gentlemen, almost half of the poorest 40% of the population receive no or insufficient benefits. The current government, reshaping the existing regime with substantial institutional areas, aims to put an end to the system of pluralism and evil. So next week, the Law on the National Monitoring and Evaluation of Political Integration comes into discussion. The aim of this mechanism is to design, update, coordinate, document, monitor and evaluate social inclusion and social cohesion policies. In this context, there are two hundred and fifty-three community centres throughout the country, which will operate as reception facilities for the purpose of recording and serving the beneficiaries, and thirteen observers in the regions. This instrument will contribute to the development of local and regional policies, the development of targeted arrangements for social inclusion and cohesion, the management and dissemination of information and the coverage, an assessment of the progress of social protection policies. Second important aspect is the establishment of the single advance payment institution, covering the benefits paid by all government bodies. The person concerned will only be able to obtain information on the allowance to which he is entitled. Moreover, with the single operator all allowances will be paid on the same day of the month, which was also a constant request for the disabled movement. Third major legislative intervention is the establishment of the National Single Solidarity System for the modernisation, democratisation and strengthening of all agencies and social protection and integration units. The 2017 budget is a positive social budget that strengthens those mechanisms that are impediments to the society upright until the economy recovers. Gentlemen of Officership, I understand your anxiety, but in vain you are trying to become prophets of evil developments. Society recognises the effort that is being made to modernise the public system and to have single criteria and more transparency so that everyone who is entitled to access benefits and services, as citizens and not as clients, does not have to trade personally with any authority. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Two minutes, Mr President, you will give me. The new year will be the year of recovery of the economy. Our government has goals, has vision, has the will and the power to get the country out of the crisis and it will succeed. The Prime Minister's announcements this evening, the distribution of the surplus which you called into question to the low pensioners, the suspension of the increase in VAT to the inhabitants of the islands who have accepted the biggest refugee crisis is the result of the tough negotiation, proper management, which shows that the promises in the context of social policy that we have made will be implemented slowly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u540	Mr Simos Kedicoglou has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u541	Mr President, I would like the floor to make a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u542	Mr. Kedicoglou, just one minute to speak to the Minister. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u543	With regard to the 617 million announced by the Prime Minister that it will be given to the low pensioners and we will also have the suspension of VAT on some Aegean islands, on the islands that have refugees, I would like to explain that it is from the surplus that exists, 2,44 billion by the month of November on the target of the 2016 budget. I understand, of course, the Vice-Presidents, that little has been upset by the news, and they probably cannot assimilate it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u544	He said: "This year we will give this year and next year we will give the rest."
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u545	Surplus 2,44?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u546	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u547	With the obligations of the 4 billion government alone, we have no surplus!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u548	It's from the 2016 surplus.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u549	Mrs. Papanaceu, are you done?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u550	The surplus of 2.44 billion...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u551	Be quiet, please, let's hear the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u552	See the government’s overdue payments to third parties that are increasing by geometric progress.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u553	Mrs Papanatsiou, you will address the Bureau. Are you done?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u554	You don't have a surplus.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u555	We don't want...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u556	What surplus? Start paying people!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u557	...sufficient.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u558	Please, no crises. You're welcome. Mrs. Papanatsiou, did you finish what you wanted to say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u559	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u560	Please, just quiet down. Come on, Mr. Kedicoglou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u561	Thank you, Mr President. You see, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, following the Prime Minister's election order, it is normal to have a little lost to the point of the budget debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u562	Please, be quiet! A little comment, though, because, as my friend Apostle Besiropoulos says, it is a small return to previous cuts, i.e. I take you three, I give you one back and you say thank you. It's a bit like Hoja's stories. Anyway, let's talk about the budget, although the only thing is that it won't be implemented, and why it doesn't come out - they don't come out, there's no money for these taxes - and why, after the Tsipras dictionary, I see you picking the turn through the elections. But let's get to the conversation. The budget is the roadmap presented by the government in the Parliament, on the progress of the economy next year and the 2017 budget is a roadmap for the rocks. Where do you get him? From the out-of-real predictions? Of course, when you think the economy is like the spring and the more compression the faster it will grow, then, yes, you can believe that you will have growth of 2.7% and investment growth of 9.1%, in the midst of a heavy, hardest tax storm. Personally, of course, what I find impossible to understand is how the Greeks, who have lost 5.5 billion of their available income and will also pay for new taxes, over 3 billion euros, will increase their private consumption. I mean, while they have less money and pay more taxes, they'll spend more on themselves. I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, even Marx would tear his degrees apart, listening to it. Unless you expect there to be an increase in private consumption due to an increase in indirect taxes. It can be said that cigarettes and coffee are private consumption. Another important example of social justice in the budget is, of course, an increase in the percentage of indirect taxes in all tax revenues. Go on, go on, go on, go on, go on, go on, go on, go on, go on, go on, go on, go on, go on, go on, go Even if you do so, i.e. that the increase in private consumption will come from the increase in indirect taxes, you will fall out and indicate the total ignorance you have for the operation of the economy. The anticipated revenue from the increased indirect taxes will not be achieved. "The tax is killing the tax," the Americans say and they know something. It will reduce consumption and increase tax evasion due to stronger incentives. Of course, I forgot, the tax evasion is going to get hit. How do you manage to hit her with fewer checks and fewer fines, however, is another of the mysteries of your administration. But in terms of taxes, indirect and direct, it is where your idealism, the main reason why you are unable to respond to the demands of the country's governance, is revealed in all its greatness. There was no need for the undocumented ministerial declaration that large taxation did not hinder competitiveness, it did not prevent growth. It is a good thing that he has not told us that he is strengthening it, or again, because he has not told us that the high taxes are attracting investment. Of course, investment and privatisation are your dress. We've been certified by many of your ministers. The high taxation of the private sector is, unfortunately, a component of your ideology, of the left ideology. Besides, in the ideal world of many of you there should not be a private body, there should be no private business. You are still saying the same outdated slogan as "to take it from the rich, to the rich, to the tax on big capital". Didn't you see how the world changed? The funds, small or large, do not know borders. Seventeen thousand Greek companies have gone to Bulgaria and don't blame them, they did it to survive. We need to see how they can survive here. However, you remain faithful to the doctrine of 'taxation, taxation, taxation, and at the end of the day something will remain.' You impose heavy taxes, because you know their low collection. You know that half the people can pay at most. So you say we'll charge them double. And you celebrate the over-performance of revenues and ignore the fact that many pay with their credit cards, leaving unpaid other debts, widening the problem of banks and further removing the smooth operation of the banking system. Of course, what am I talking about in the banking system? Here you have no idea what crime was the Capital Controls. You thought the banks were like the booths. You close them one day, you open them next day. Learning magicians, ideologues at the expense of the country. You know at your cost of governance -10 billion according to Mr Regling, 86 billion according to Mr Stournara - has not calculated the cost of capital controls, because it is incalculable. So those who can still pay, those who survived fingernails and teeth in the years of the crisis, give them the charismatic shot at overtaxation. What about the rest of them who can't pay? Basically, you're feeding them what they've got and they don't. How else can we interpret the evidence that Greeks' unpaid debts to the public are constantly increasing and have already exceeded half the Gross Domestic Product? Of course, most of these desperate people are not privileged, they are not possessors and possessors, to rethink your infamous social credentials. In this confiscation of property, we can take account of the heavy and in advance taxation of small and medium-sized enterprises and free professionals. My friend lawyer said to me: "Re Seymo, I get 80% of my revenue. These are communist things." Taking these communist things into account, but also your ideas, I am thinking of whether the 2017 budget is an anniversary budget. Did you make it to celebrate the hundred-year anniversary of the red October and the Bolsheviks revolution? Sounds like a bad joke, but I'm thinking about Mr. Tsipras with enthusiasm in Havana's square comparing Castle to Colotronis and I'm beginning to be afraid that it's true. Of course, the equality you are evangelizing is the violent balance downwards, it is the absolute levelling up, according to the patterns of existing socialism. You have disappointed them all, you have fooled them all, and especially the young people who, instead of jobs and an increase in basic wages, have to get comfortable with a few hours' part-time and crumbs and, if they are lucky. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you don't know, you don't understand, you don't want to, after all you can't do what you have to do. The main reasons are two: First your madness with taxes. There is no budgetary balance with 93% tax increases and only 7% spending cuts. In the government of Samaras, isosclism was 77% cost cuts. The second cause is the demonisation of the private sector, the demonization of entrepreneurship, because growth, the jobs that we so much need, will only come from there because there is no other way. The private sector will bring growth. Ladies and gentlemen, by closing down, I will say that you do not want, you cannot, you do not know. We know, and we want, and we can, and we have a different plan. The sooner you leave, the better. This is the last offer you can make to the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u563	We invite Mrs. Fotini Vakis from SYRIZA, who is the last speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u564	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u565	What do you want, Mr. Loverde?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u566	I would like to make a comment on the intervention of the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u567	Mrs. Vaki, would you like Mr. Loverdos to precede his comment?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u568	No problem, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u569	Mr. Loverde, you have the floor for a minute. The Minister made a clarification on the basis of the Prime Minister's announcements.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u570	Yes, but the Minister did this, and that is why I am asking for the floor. Rather, as Mrs Vaki says, the Minister was referring to Civicism. Before, however, he referred to the Opposition. I want to tell her that opposition has parties. It's not an abstract subject. As far as our party, the Democratic Alliance, is concerned, Mrs Christophilopoulou has said so from here. In view, Minister, of what you agreed on in 2017, in 2018, 2019 and 2020, one-off and one-stage gift for not listening to the criticism made against you for what you have already agreed, you gave 300 euros one-off, one-off, and not tenth-third pension. Please, if you are criticising a political party, state what it is. The abstract counterpopulation generally and vaguely don't pass.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u571	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u572	I too, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u573	Let's not go into a new controversy cycle now. Please. Mrs. Papanaceu, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u574	I want the floor for a minute, because really whenever we talk to Mr. Loverdo, he always has something to say. Repeat something before entering the Chamber. I didn't want to do that. He said about VLTs, we've filled Greece, etc., since the early afternoon. Mr. Loverde, I have to answer that you probably have the memory of the Greeks that Mr. Adonis Georgiades said before, that they forget very quickly. You don't remember rather that in relation to this 2011 ministerial decision, it was your government that had done all of this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u575	What do you think, ma'am?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u576	I know very well what I'm saying, Mr. Loverdo. I know very well what I'm saying!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u577	Other than others.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u578	From there on, as to this particular subject...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u579	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u580	Not 'good, good', Mr. Loverdo. It was a ministerial decision, and I can tell you her number.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u581	Is the Minister finished, Mr. Loverdo?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u582	I don't know if it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u583	On 4-11-2011 you made these decisions to go thirty-five thousand VLT. Should anyone remind you that it was Mr. Papandreou's government when all these moves were made? I would also like to remind you that with the current government we are trying to resolve a number of issues, but without wanting to put down the contract that exists and then tell us that we are stopping investments. From there on, with regard to what I mentioned, I have really referred to the opposition colleagues. Now, from there on, what Mrs Christophilopoulou said, we have all heard it and what other opposition colleagues have said, we have heard it. The surplus that exists at the moment is - above the budget target, EUR 2.44 billion. Since this surplus in 2016, some money -617 million euros - will be provided to low-retired people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u584	Tax refunds are EUR 3.3 billion. Allotment to third parties is EUR 6.3 billion. What surplus of EUR 2.44 billion is there? Tell me about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u585	Madam Minister, I think we've exhausted the matter. Mrs. Vaki's waiting too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u586	That is the surplus that exists at the moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u587	You owe everyone!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u588	And we have promised the Greek people....
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u589	We are talking about 2016 in due course.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u590	...as we have of these surpluses, we will share it with the Greek people and even in the lower layers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u591	Don't talk about a surplus.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u592	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u593	Mr. Dimas, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u594	I think we ought to have an answer to the Minister. Minister, if there is indeed this surplus, which we all wish would be a real surplus, then you must explain to Greek citizens why you have not repaid all the public's dues, where on your own days they have increased by 63% and have now reached EUR 6.3 billion. I repeat, 6.3 billion. Disprove me if you want. So what are we talking about? We're talking about an artificial surplus. In addition, in addition to the outstanding debts that have increased by 63% on your own days, please answer us why you have moved on to the “washing” of the reserves by all public entities. So this surplus is fake and the promises you share are inexperienced.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u595	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u596	Mr. Loverdo, what do you want now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u597	Just a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u598	Excuse me, he said some things. He didn't blame anyone. It was reassigned as regards the Prime Minister's announcements. I think we can turn it off here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u599	I don't want to say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u600	I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u601	All right, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u602	Mrs Vaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u603	Ladies and gentlemen, you seem to have been very displeased by the Prime Minister's letter and the fact that a primary surplus has arisen and that this will go to social needs of vulnerable groups. And for the time being, I would remind you, before entering my speech, that in 2012, under the Government of Samaras, you had EUR 9 billion outstanding debts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u604	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u605	I'm not making any mistakes, and you're quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u606	Don't lie.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u607	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u608	In 2012 we received EUR 9 billion and gave it EUR 3.3 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u609	And 40 billion euros pension cuts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u610	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u611	In December 2014, it was EUR 3.3 billion. You're lying all the time!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u612	Please, Mr. Besiropoulos, calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u613	The EUR 3.3 billion you have made seven billion euros in two years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u614	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u615	That's the truth, Mrs. Vaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u616	Please! Come on, Mrs. Vaki, keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u617	Stop lying!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u618	With this conversation that preceded...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u619	Nothing is recorded, Mr. Besyropoulou, by what you say. Mrs. Vaki, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u620	Yes, I shall begin and thank you, Mr President. ...remind me of a verse by Manolis Anagnostakis from his poem "I fear": "I fear those who, with their nest, are struggling now to find stains in your nest." That is what you remind me, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u621	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u622	Well, we are in a top parliamentary process of discussing and voting for the annual budget. And you know, this isn't just a quote of sizes and indicators. It is also a process of reflection, reflection, self-criticism and reflection on a government's policy and vision. So, listening to the previous speeches by the former co-pilots, PASOK and New Democracy, one has the feeling that there is a branch of historical time. There's a tour between the pre-SYRIZA and the SYRIZA era. So before SYRIZA's intense populism came to power, there was growth, blossom and prosperity, a success story that broke out of ambiguousness, and the scroller of the "first time left". However, since you want to speak with numbers, I would remind you that in January 2015 you delivered the highest debt rate of all time to 181% of GDP and national wealth depleted by 25%. We received GDP 177 billion. It was also the famous fifth evaluation, which reminded us that it predicted 3.5% and 4.5% of primary surpluses and the 12.5 billion in the budget that you inherited together with 27% of unemployment. As for the famous PSI, for which you are so overwhelming and beating it in the short-term debt reduction decided on December 5th, there is a discrepancy: With the PSI tired public, hospital, university and collapsed insurance funds. For, of course, you, who are eminent Europeans, but your Europeanism is exhausted in a defence of an unjust and neoliberal architecture of the euro area, where the rich countries, unfortunately, are sucking down the poor, mocking that government, because from the first day it took over, politically and internationally, the debt problem. We have not rushed to give certificates of the sustainability of our debt to make life unsavoury, nor are we triumphant, you know, of the primary surpluses, which make our people's lives and dignity in deficit. You eminent Europeanists, who have called into question the fundamentalism of the markets, are tantamount to populism and ask for an agreement at all costs, have now clothed the vocabulary of the anti-resistance, the anti-immemorandum, the representative of the social strata that you have plundered and relinquished the government for anti-developmental, material policy through the high taxes. Did you build for more than forty years the complicity system that blindly closed the eye in the tax evasion of an economic oligarchy and identified growth with what, ladies and gentlemen? With the bubble? With the seashore loans of your honorable friends? With the lists? The robbers were besieged in the realm of offshore, and the poor were the ones flying to Kaidas. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a budget within a memorandum we have not chosen, but we have been imposed on us. We budget within a Europe which is caught in the contours of a hierarchy of neoliberal technocrats who crush peoples and level societies, without the boot and iron of World War II on the one hand and on the other hand a resentment right, who unfortunately receives the anger and indignation of the citizens, who see them to be enforced without disrespect. We do budget a little pie, which doesn't get enough for everyone, but at least we try to share it fairly. And trying to heal wounds of impoverished people, we are wrong - yes - without wanting others. From the 'first time left', you know, and we lost our sleep. But we have lost our sleep not to fire civil servants, but to send school guards, cleaners, managers and ERT's sacked employees back to make the public health system accessible to two and a half million uninsured citizens. To reopen the beds in the hospitals and open staff seats already covered. To open schools on time without gaps, to stop university degradation. Thousands of members of the IGC have been proclaimed. In the budget that we are discussing, the social solidarity allowance from 95 million in 2015 amounts to 760 in order to universally implement for our two hundred and fifty thousand fellow citizens living below the limits of extreme poverty, because from your own success story the victims of the humanitarian crisis were clearly absent, for whom the government's first bill with Law No.4320/15 by subsidising food, rent and electricity. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, taxes and forecast growth indicators for 2017, which are high, are not yet translated into an improvement in the daily lives of citizens. Yes, there is intolerance and displeasure and no success story can soften it. But these high taxes are also the price to give education and health 300 million, they are to restore the ruins of the social state and provide 100 million to protect the first housing in vulnerable strata, they are for the recruitment of permanent and subsidiary staff to hospitals. But there's something else. In the budgetary area that we are seeking to create in order to make social policy, the measures that are not, as you know, counted on the objectives are also calculated. And that's the fight against tax evasion. "My nice laundry that was washing out the floors" previous governments resorted to 99% cost cuts and only 1% tax. The law on smuggling tobacco and fuels has been brought to him by this government in order to create a surplus for social purposes. From this government for the first time, your chosen friends went through the fund and paid. For the first time! Because social justice and equality do not demand that the poor of the crisis and the invisible be thrown to the tax immunity enjoyed by the chosen oligarchs. And in this spirit was the Prime Minister's letter of 617 million for a million six hundred thousand fellow citizens who receive a pension of less than 850 euros and for suspending the increase in VAT on the islands affected by the refugee crisis. Europe is at the moment being vigilant by a great anger among peoples who have become experimental animals of the markets. I would recommend that you direct your indignation to those who are trying to dismantle the right to work, to those who are trying to break up the social fabric. Support not the government, but a people who have been asking for dignity, who have been living in loan and without a future. This, of course, reinforcement of the social budget obviously does not agree with you, because you are more likely to be coordinating with the analysis of the International Monetary Fund by seeking tax relief for the rich, collective redundancies and taxes on workers and impoverishment for pensioners. Didn't you apply this recipe from 2012 to 2014? This policy is also committed to implementing in future harmonious cooperation with the International Monetary Fund and with the country's employers' capital. We will continue, as far as we can, to reject this mixture of policy and fight with all possible means for the reconstruction of the economy in terms of social justice and for the protection of labour, the social state and the social goods. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u623	Thank you Mrs Vaki, with which the twelfth cycle was completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u624	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u625	Yeah, but look, don't challenge now, because it's going to start a new bar of confrontation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u626	I will not provoke you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u627	Let's close peacefully. We've got two more days ahead of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u628	Mr President, I have been asking for the floor since yesterday because the Democratic Integration with Mr Constantinople and today from the morning, by addressing both Mr Tsakalotos and Mr Juliarakis and Mrs Papanatziou, we are raising an issue that emerged from the abolition of all restrictions on small casinos in the centre of towns, throughout Greece, of 1 November 2016 FEK. I filed it here. And I said, in fact, that because we are not philosophers, like today's Coalition, to say that it is your fault or the fault of the other and who took them, as you were saying, we said the Ministry's leadership obviously did not know. But under her feet, they dance mice. And there's a question of corruption here, not a matter of mistake. Has this regulation been bought and you tell me about 2011 and 2010? I'm telling you about November 1, 2016. And there's a history of this case. Please make sure you find out what has happened and tomorrow give an answer, because this matter, Madam Secretary, will not be closed. And vaguely he doesn't get over it. Someone's broke down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u629	All right, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u630	Tell us what you need to do to check and to abolish this unacceptable regulation. There's also names, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u631	One minute, I'd like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u632	Madam Secretary, you have the floor for a minute. And with Mrs Papanatsiou, we are finishing the meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u633	This provision was brought by you on 4-11-2011. From there and then...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u634	It's all the same again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u635	Yeah, same again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u636	I'm talking about privatization of the OPAP, ma'am. From 2013 on!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u637	Mr. Loverdo, don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u638	Please be very careful how you speak, Mr. Loverdo. From there, thirty-five thousand, as you say, games have been installed throughout Greece. And there was a commitment to making...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u639	Are they installed? He doesn't know!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u640	They'll settle down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u641	Oh, they'll settle down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u642	And there is a commitment from what you voted on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u643	Ma'am, I'm talking about the regulation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u644	Please, Mr. Loverdo! Let the Minister say what he wants!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u645	From that point on, we made some adjustments...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u646	Let us know...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u647	...trying not to lose the investment that exists. From there on, we will come back tomorrow perhaps with more details.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u648	Good. Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the sitting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-08-S1-commons.u649	The meeting for Friday, December 9, 2016, at 10.00, on the subject of this House's legislative work is closed at 0.32' time: Continuing the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Structuring the State Budget for the financial year 2017".
